---

title: Method and apparatus for managing a configurable display environment
abstract: A method, apparatus and computer program product are provided in order to manage a medical imaging study display environment. The method includes receiving, from at least one display device coupled to a medical imaging workstation, display environment context data. The method also includes extracting, by processing circuitry, metadata from a medical imaging study accessed by the medical imaging workstation, determining based at least in part on the metadata, image viewing context data, determining, based on the display environment context data and the image viewing context data, whether a display environment of the medical imaging workstation complies with one or more rules for viewing the medical imaging study, and in response to determining that the display environment of the medical imaging workstation does not comply with the one or more rules, performing at least one action before allowing viewing of the medical imaging study to proceed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582170&OS=09582170&RS=09582170
owner: McKesson Financial Holdings
number: 09582170
owner_city: Hamilton
owner_country: BM
publication_date: 20141031
---
Example embodiments of the present invention relate generally to methods and devices for managing configuration of a display environment and more particularly to methods and apparatuses for verifying the configuration of display devices in a medical imaging system.

Advances in medical imaging technology allow for the capture of more richly detailed images than ever before. Images with an increased resolution and bit depth provide medical practitioners with the ability to discern anatomical features that might not be readily apparent at lower resolutions or color bit depth. At the same time the ubiquity of the personal computer a move to cost effective off the shelf components for viewing of medical images and the ability to access stored images remotely has led to an increased range of the capabilities of display environments used to view these images.

Small variations in display environments can have a dramatic impact on the ability of a medical practitioner to accurately identify particular features. Identification of these features is often essential for a correct diagnosis. A small change in the display environment such as the display resolution color bit depth or even ambient light in the viewing environment may result in the medical practitioner failing to note the presence or absence of a particular feature. Incorrect diagnoses may result in less efficient care requiring additional tests and imaging studies. In the worst case a misdiagnosis may have a material effect on patient outcomes if an otherwise treatable condition is not identified before it becomes too serious for effective treatment. Despite having a material impact on the success of the diagnosis small changes in the display environment may not be immediately apparent to the naked eye. Through applied effort ingenuity and innovation Applicant has solved many of these identified problems by developing a technical solution that is embodied by the present invention which is described in detail below

Methods apparatuses and computer program products are therefore provided according to example embodiments of the present invention in order to provide for managing the configuration of a display environment used to view medical images. Embodiments may include a method for managing the display environment. The method includes receiving from at least one display device coupled to a medical imaging workstation display environment context data extracting by processing circuitry metadata from a medical imaging study accessed by the medical imaging workstation determining based at least in part on the metadata image viewing context data determining based on the display environment context data and the image viewing context data whether a display environment of the medical imaging workstation complies with one or more rules for viewing the medical imaging study and in response to determining that the display environment of the medical imaging workstation does not comply with the one or more rules performing at least one action before allowing viewing of the medical imaging study to proceed. The at least one action may include presenting a pop up notification in a graphical user interface for viewing the medical imaging study. The pop up notification may include one or more interface controls prompting the user to accept one or more display configuration changes before viewing the medical imaging study. The at least one action may be programmatically altering at least one configuration setting of the at least one display device to cause the display environment to comply with the one or more rules. The at least one action may be sending an e mail to an administrator notifying the administrator of the determination that the display environment does not comply with the one or more rules. The at least one display device may be a graphics card or a monitor. The display environment context data may include a resolution of a monitor and a color bit depth of the monitor. The image viewing context data may include at least one of a medical imaging device type an image orientation or an original resolution of an image included in the medical imaging study. The one or more rules may specify at least one of a minimum color bit depth or a minimum display resolution. The method may include generating imaging workstation context data based on the display environment context data and the image viewing context data and transmitting the imaging workstation context data to a remote server for processing wherein determining whether the display environment complies with the one or more rules is performed by the remote server. At least one of the display environment context data or the image viewing context data may be stored in a markup language format.

Embodiments may also include a medical imaging workstation for managing a medical imaging study display environment. The medical imaging workstation includes display interface circuitry image display circuitry and context processing circuitry. The display interface circuitry is configured to obtain display environment context data from at least one display device coupled to the medical imaging workstation and provide the display environment context data to context processing circuitry. The image display circuitry is configured to obtain image viewing context data from a medical imaging application. The image viewing context data is derived at least in part based on metadata associated with a medical imaging study accessed by the medical imaging workstation. The image display circuitry is further configured to provide the image viewing context data to the context processing circuitry. The context processing circuitry is configured to receive the display environment context data and the image viewing context data and based at least in part on the display environment context data and the image viewing context data perform at least one action prior to allowing viewing of the medical imaging study. The medical imaging workstation may include the at least one display device. The context processing circuitry may be further configured to transmit at least a portion of the image viewing context data and at least a portion of the display environment context data to rules engine provided by a server other than the medical imaging workstation and to receive instructions from the rules engine to perform the at least one action where the at least one action is determined by the rules engine based at least in part on the at least a portion of the image viewing context data and the at least a portion of the display environment context data. The at least one action may be presenting a pop up notification in a graphical user interface for viewing the medical imaging study. The pop up notification may include one or more interface controls prompting the user to accept one or more display configuration changes before viewing the medical imaging study. The at least one action may be programmatically altering at least one configuration setting of the at least one display device to cause the display environment to comply with the one or more rules. The at least one display device may be a graphics card or a monitor. The image viewing context data may include at least one of a medical imaging device type an image orientation or an original resolution of an image included in the medical imaging study.

Embodiments also include a non transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to configure an apparatus. The instructions cause the processor to configure the apparatus to receive from at least one display device coupled to a medical imaging workstation display environment context data to extract metadata from a medical imaging study accessed by the medical imaging workstation to determine based at least in part on the metadata image viewing context data to determine based on the display environment context data and the image viewing context data whether a display environment of the medical imaging workstation complies with one or more rules for viewing the medical imaging study and in response to determining that the display environment of the medical imaging workstation does not comply with the one or more rules to perform at least one action before allowing viewing of the medical imaging study to proceed.

The above summary is provided merely for purposes of summarizing some example embodiments to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the above described embodiments are merely examples and should not be construed to narrow the scope or spirit of the invention in any way. It will be appreciated that the scope of the invention encompasses many potential embodiments in addition to those here summarized some of which will be further described below.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

A method apparatus and computer program product are provided in accordance with example embodiments of the present invention for managing a configuration of a medical imaging display environment. As noted above the inventors have identified that small changes in the characteristics capabilities and configuration settings of display environments can have a significant impact on the ability of medical practitioners to provide accurate diagnoses. However these small changes may not be readily apparent to the naked eye such that a medical practitioner may inadvertently use a display environment that is not optimal for a given study. To address these problems the inventors have developed methods and systems that obtain display environment context data about a display environment used for a medical imaging study to ensure that the display environment is properly configured for the medical imaging study. In some embodiments the proper configuration settings for a medical imaging study may be dynamically determined on a study by study basis. For example embodiments may automatically determine proper configuration settings upon opening a medical imaging study based on characteristics of that study e.g. the particular patient the resolution of the image used in the study the orientation of the patient in the image the type of device used to generate the image or whether or not a contrast medium was used in the study .

If a conflict is detected between the proper configuration settings for a display environment and the actual configuration of the display environment embodiments may take an appropriate action based on the nature of the conflict. For example some embodiments may generate a notification to a user indicating that the display environment is improperly configured. Other embodiments may log the conflict for later review or analysis. Yet further embodiments may generate an e mail text message or the like to an administrator or other user to notify the user of the conflict. Additional embodiments may prevent the study from proceeding until the conflict is addressed. Some additional embodiments may automatically adjust display settings to conform to the proper configuration setting in response to detecting the conflict.

For the purposes of this application the term display environment context data refers to electronic data that indicates a status of a display hardware device e.g. a graphics card or monitor a display driver a display setting or the like. The display environment context data may be processed by a rules engine to determine if the display environment context data indicates that the display environment is properly configured for a medical imaging study. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments display environment context data can also include sensor data indicating external factors that may contribute to the ability of the practitioner to view a medical imaging study such as the amount of ambient light in the display room a color of a display bezel the time of day or the like.

For the purposes of this application the term image viewing context data refers to electronic data that indicates one or more characteristics of a particular selected image or images or a particular selected imaging study or imaging studies. The image viewing context data may be processed by a rules engine to determine a set of proper configuration settings for a display environment to properly view the selected image or study.

For the purposes of this application the term medical imaging study refers to an image or set of images captured by a medical imaging device such as an x ray computed tomography CT scan magnetic resonance imaging scanner or the like. The term should be understood to refer to both single isolated images and sets of images. In some embodiments the medical imaging study will include a set of metadata describing the file format of the image the original capture resolution of the image the type of device used to capture the image the date the image was captured a patient associated with the captured image a viewing orientation of the image a particular anatomical part of the patient represented in the image one or more diagnostic codes one or more procedure codes or the like. In some embodiments the medical imaging study may be stored in a Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM file format. In some embodiments the medical imaging study may be stored in other image formats such as JPEG BMP GIF PNG or the like.

It should be noted that the components devices or elements illustrated in and described with respect to below may not be mandatory and thus some may be omitted in certain embodiments. Additionally some embodiments may include further or different components devices or elements beyond those illustrated in and described with respect to .

As illustrated in an apparatus may include a processor a memory input output circuitry communications circuitry display interface circuitry image viewing circuitry context processing circuitry . The apparatus may be configured to execute the operations described below with respect to . Although these components are described with respect to functional limitations it should be understood that the particular implementations necessarily include the use of particular hardware. It should also be understood that certain of these components may include similar or common hardware. For example two sets of circuitry may both leverage use of the same processor network interface storage medium or the like to perform their associated functions such that duplicate hardware is not required for each set of circuitry. The use of the term circuitry as used herein with respect to components of the apparatus should therefore be understood to include particular hardware configured to perform the functions associated with the particular circuitry as described herein.

The term circuitry should be understood broadly to include hardware and in some embodiments software for configuring the hardware. For example in some embodiments circuitry may include processing circuitry storage media network interfaces input output devices and the like. In some embodiments other elements of the apparatus may provide or supplement the functionality of particular circuitry. For example the processor may provide processing functionality the memory may provide storage functionality the communications circuitry may provide network interface functionality and the like.

In some embodiments the processor and or co processor or any other processing circuitry assisting or otherwise associated with the processor may be in communication with the memory via a bus for passing information among components of the apparatus. The memory may be non transitory and may include for example one or more volatile and or non volatile memories. In other words for example the memory may be an electronic storage device e.g. a computer readable storage medium . The memory may be configured to store information data content applications instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with example embodiments of the present invention.

The processor may be embodied in a number of different ways and may for example include one or more processing devices configured to perform independently. Additionally or alternatively the processor may include one or more processors configured in tandem via a bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and or multithreading. The use of the term processing circuitry may be understood to include a single core processor a multi core processor multiple processors internal to the apparatus and or remote or cloud processors.

In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory or otherwise accessible to the processor. Alternatively or additionally the processor may be configured to execute hard coded functionality. As such whether configured by hardware or software methods or by a combination thereof the processor may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry capable of performing operations according to an embodiment of the present invention while configured accordingly. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform the algorithms and or operations described herein when the instructions are executed.

In some embodiments the apparatus may include input output circuitry that may in turn be in communication with processor to provide output to the user and in some embodiments to receive an indication of a user input. The input output circuitry may comprise a user interface and may include a display and may comprise a web user interface a mobile application a client device a kiosk or the like. In some embodiments the input output circuitry may also include a keyboard a mouse a joystick a touch screen touch areas soft keys a microphone a speaker or other input output mechanisms. The processor and or user interface circuitry comprising the processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more user interface elements through computer program instructions e.g. software and or firmware stored on a memory accessible to the processor e.g. memory and or the like .

The communications circuitry may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to a network and or any other device circuitry or module in communication with the apparatus . In this regard the communications circuitry may include for example a network interface for enabling communications with a wired or wireless communication network. For example the communications circuitry may include one or more network interface cards antennae buses switches routers modems and supporting hardware and or software or any other device suitable for enabling communications via a network. Additionally or alternatively the communication interface may include the circuitry for interacting with the antenna s to cause transmission of signals via the antenna s or to handle receipt of signals received via the antenna s .

The display interface circuitry includes hardware configured to interface with one or more sources of display environment context data such as a display device a graphics card or a display driver. The display interface circuitry may function to send and receive data to and from various display components of the apparatus such as described above with respect to the input output circuitry . The display interface circuitry may thus function as a device driver or drivers for the sources of display environment context data. The display interface circuitry includes a processor configured to implement one or more application programming interfaces APIs and or graphics libraries e.g. Open Graphics Library for communicating with the sources of display environment context data. The display interface circuitry may obtain via hardware configured to communicate with the display components of the apparatus display environment context data.

The display environment context data that may be obtained by the display interface circuitry may vary depending upon the type of the source of display environment context data. For example a monitor may provide display environment context data relating to a display size a display pixel width a maximum resolution a current resolution a maximum color bit depth a current color bit depth a maximum display lifetime a current display lifetime a maximum refresh rate a model identifier a hardware revision number a serial number a manufacturer name a firmware revision identifier and the like. A graphics card may provide display environment context data relating to a processor clock frequency a memory clock frequency a number of shader pipelines a number of pixel pipelines a firmware revision identifier a manufacturer identifier a model identifier or the like. A display driver may provide display environment context data relating to a release date of the display driver a version number of the display driver or the like. The display interface circuitry may obtain the display environment context data by causing execution of one or more application programming interface API functions as implemented by the various sources of display environment context data to obtain the display environment context data. The display interface circuitry may utilize processing circuitry such as the processor to perform these actions. It should also be appreciated that in some embodiments the display interface circuitry may include a separate processor specially configured field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific interface circuit ASIC to interface with display devices. The display interface circuitry is therefore implemented using hardware components of the apparatus configured by either hardware or software for implementing these planned functions.

The image display circuitry includes hardware configured to access and display a medical imaging study. The image display circuitry may include a processor configured to execute an application that accesses a medical imaging study from a memory and displays the medical imaging study via a display. The image display circuitry may also include hardware configured to obtain image viewing context data related to the medical imaging study. For example the image display circuitry may identify various characteristics of the medical imaging study as image viewing context data such as a type of the study the patient anatomical feature that is the subject of the study a particular patient associated with the medical imaging study a resolution of an image stored in the medical imaging study an orientation of the medical imaging study a modality of the medical imaging study a user viewing the medical imaging study a practitioner schedule associated with the client or the like. In some embodiments the information described above may be obtained from metadata associated with the medical imaging study while in other embodiments some or all of said data may be determined programmatically such as through the use of optical character recognition techniques image processing techniques inference from patient medical records or the like. The image display circuitry may utilize processing circuitry such as the processor to perform these actions. It should also be appreciated that in some embodiments the image display circuitry may include a separate processor specially configured field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific interface circuit ASIC to provide for viewing a medical imaging study. In some embodiments where the medical imaging study is stored in a remote storage location the image display circuitry may comprise a network interface or interface with the communications circuitry to obtain the medical imaging study from the remote storage location. The image display circuitry is therefore implemented using hardware components of the apparatus configured by either hardware or software for implementing these planned functions.

The apparatus further comprises context processing circuitry . The context processing circuitry includes hardware configured to format and package a set of context data for use in managing a display environment during a medical imaging operation. The set of context data may include display environment context data obtained from display interface circuitry as described above and image viewing context data obtained from image viewing circuitry as described above. The context processing circuitry may be further configured to analyze the set of context data to identify a proper configuration for a medical imaging study compare the proper configuration to a display environment configuration identified by the display environment context data and take an appropriate action based on the conflict. The context processing circuitry may utilize processing circuitry such as the processor to perform these actions. The context processing circuitry may be configured to transmit the set of context data to a server for remote analysis. In some embodiments the context processing circuitry may transmit the set of context data via the communications circuitry . It should also be appreciated that in some embodiments the context processing circuitry may include a separate processor specially configured field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific interface circuit ASIC to generate the context data. The context processing circuitry is therefore implemented using hardware components of the apparatus configured by either hardware or software for implementing these planned functions.

As will be appreciated any such computer program instructions and or other type of code may be loaded onto a computer processor or other programmable apparatus s circuitry to produce a machine such that the computer processor other programmable circuitry that execute the code on the machine create the means for implementing various functions including those described herein.

It is also noted that all or some of the information presented by the example displays discussed herein can be based on data that is received generated and or maintained by one or more components of apparatus . In some embodiments one or more external systems such as a remote cloud computing and or data storage system may also be leveraged to provide at least some of the functionality discussed herein.

The context evaluation circuitry includes hardware configured to receive context information from a client and evaluate the context information to identify conflicts between a display environment of the client device and a proper configuration for a medical imaging study being performed on the client device. The context information may be received via a network interface such as provided by the communications circuitry . It should also be appreciated that in some embodiments the context evaluation circuitry may include a separate processor specially configured field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific interface circuit ASIC to evaluate the context data. The context evaluation circuitry is therefore implemented using hardware components of the apparatus configured by either hardware or software for implementing these planned functions.

The image generation circuitry includes hardware configured to store access and provide medical image studies. The image generation circuitry may include an archival function of a PACS whereby medical image studies are stored and provided to client devices in response to a request from the client device for the particular medical imaging study. The image generation circuitry may be configured to receive and respond to such requests. In some embodiments the image generation circuitry includes hardware for receiving medical imaging studies directly from a medical imaging device without intervening storage and or archiving. In some embodiments the image generation circuitry includes hardware for receiving an image from a medical imaging device and processing the image to generate a medical imaging study. The image generation circuitry may receive requests for and provide medical images via the communications circuitry . It should also be appreciated that in some embodiments the image generation circuitry may include a separate processor specially configured field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific interface circuit ASIC to receive and provide medical imaging studies. The image generation circuitry is therefore implemented using hardware components of the apparatus configured by either hardware or software for implementing these planned functions.

As described above and as will be appreciated based on this disclosure embodiments of the present invention may be configured as methods mobile devices backend network devices and the like. Accordingly embodiments may comprise various means including entirely of hardware or any combination of software and hardware. Furthermore embodiments may take the form of a computer program product on at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program instructions e.g. computer software embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including non transitory hard disks CD ROMs flash memory optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices.

Having now described an apparatus configured to implement and or support implementation of various example embodiments features of several example embodiments will now be described. It will be appreciated that the following features are non limiting examples of features provided by some example embodiments. Further it will be appreciated that embodiments are contemplated within the scope of disclosure that implement various subsets or combinations of the features further described herein. Accordingly it will be appreciated that some example embodiments may omit one or more of the following features and or implement variations of one or more of the following features.

The server may act as a PACS hosting one or more medical imaging studies and providing said medical imaging studies in response to requests from client devices. To this end the server may include a PACS component . The PACS component may serve to store maintain and provide access to medical imaging studies according to a variety of imaging modalities formats and the like. The PACS component may provide said medical imaging studies to the client . The medical imaging studies may be provided to the client by the PACS component in a variety of manners. For example the medical imaging studies may be transmitted directly to the client as a download. Alternatively the medical imaging studies may be hosted by the PACS component and provided as a web page. In some embodiments the PACS component is implemented by image generation circuitry as described above with respect to .

An image display component of the client may receive the medical imaging study provided by the PACS component . The image display component may be configured to provide medical imaging study viewing services via the client . For example the image display component may implement a viewing application that provides for display of the medical imaging study via a graphical user interface or the image display component may provide a browser for viewing web based medical imaging studies. The image display component may be further configured to derive image viewing context data from the medical imaging study. The image viewing context data may be provided to a context processing component . The image display component may be implemented by image display circuitry as described above with respect to .

A display interface component may communicate with one or more display devices to derive display environment context data and to provide the display environment context data to the context processing component . Some embodiments may include a single display interface component for communication with a plurality of display devices while other embodiments may have a single display interface component for each display device. The display interface component may include a library web service application programming interface manufacturer tool or the like for obtaining the display environment context data. In some embodiments the display environment context data provided by each display device may depend upon features implemented by a manufacturer of the display device. For example the display interface component may be a tool or application programming interface provided as a function of a device driver of the display device. Particular examples of display interface components may include Barco Medical Self Exam offered by Barco N.V. and RadiCS offered by Ezio . In some embodiments tools offered by device manufacturers may provide insufficient display environment context data to appropriately configure a display environment to view a medical imaging study. In such cases the display interface component may include additional functions or applications to extend basic functionality offered by the device manufacturer to convert information provided by the device manufacturer into a format suitable for use as display environment context data. In some embodiments the display interface component formats data received from each of the display devices into a common format. For example the display interface component may convert data received directly from the devices into a markup language format with tags of the markup language indicating particular data types and values. In some embodiments the display interface component may obtain data for use as display environment context data from other sources such as log files registry settings environment variables or the like.

Different display devices may provide different types of display environment context data. For example a liquid crystal display LCD monitor may provide different types of display environment context data from a cathode ray tube CRT monitor and a graphics card may provide different types of display environment context data from a monitor device. As a particular example a given monitor may provide information describing version information for drivers installed for the monitor the operational lifetime of the monitor the amount of time the monitor has been powered on the refresh rate of the monitor the maximum color bit depth of the monitor the maximum resolution of the monitor the current color bit depth of the monitor the current resolution of the monitor and the like. A given graphics card may provide information relating to a display driver version for the graphics card the processor clock frequency of the graphics card the memory clock frequency of the graphics card the firmware version of the graphics card the fan speed of the graphics card or the like. The display interface component may provide the display environment context data to the context processing component .

In some embodiments the display interface component is also operable to adjust configuration settings associated with the display devices . For example the display interface component may receive instructions to change configuration settings to comply with a proper configuration for a particular medical imaging study.

The context processing component may receive the image viewing context data and display environment context data and generate a set of imaging workstation context data representing both sets of data. The imaging workstation context data may be presented in a markup language format. For example the imaging workstation context data may be presented as follows 

In some embodiments the context processing component may obtain the display environment context data and the image viewing context data in response to a user opening a medical imaging study using the image display component . When the medical imaging study is opened the context processing component may retrieve the relevant display environment context data from the display interface component to reflect the display environment at the time the medical imaging study is first displayed. The context processing component may be implemented by context processing circuitry as described above with respect to .

The context processing component may provide context information to a client server communication component . The context information may be provided to the client server communication component as separate sets of context information e.g. a set of display environment context data and a set of image viewing context data or a single set of imaging workstation context data. The client server communication component may provide the context information to a rules engine on the server . In some embodiments the context processing component may also perform an analysis of the context information to determine if the image viewing context data and the display environment context data indicate that the client device is properly configured to perform a medical imaging operation. It should be appreciated that some embodiments may employ the context processing component solely as a conduit for transmission of information to the rules engine and for reception and processing of instructions from the rules engine while in other embodiments evaluation of the context may be performed wholly or partially by the context processing component . If the client device is not properly configured the context processing component may send a notification to the client server communication component . Based on the notification the client server communication component may communicate with a client action component to take an appropriate action. The client server communication component may be implemented by context processing circuitry acting in concert with communication circuitry as described above with respect to .

The rules engine may process the context information received from the client server communication module to evaluate whether the client is properly configured to perform the medical imaging operation. In some embodiments the rules engine may be responsible for the rule configuration and processing of the context data that is transmitted from the client . In some embodiments the rules engine may be implemented as an instance of Qualitative Intelligence Communication System QICS by McKesson .

In some embodiments the rules engine may access a context datastore to obtain additional data for evaluating the received context. For example the rules engine may determine a particular set of rules for evaluating whether display environment context data is appropriate for a particular medical imaging study. In some embodiments the context datastore may include a set of constraints on display environment context data for a given set of image viewing context data. If the display environment context data does not meet the constraints for the particular image viewing context data then the rules engine may perform certain actions. The particular actions performed by the rules engine in response to detecting a conflict between the display environment data and constraints for the image viewing context data may be determined based on the particular constraint that is violated. For example if a display has exceeded its operational lifetime embodiments may notify an administrator or technician to replace the display via a communications formatting component configured to send an e mail or other notification. The rules may include triggers expressions e.g. Boolean operators and actions. For example the rules may include a trigger indicating when the rule processing i.e. evaluate condition expression occurs. Expressions may join together particular triggers to determine when the rule action occurs. The actions may specify the particular actions to be taken in response to the rule being triggered. Similarly to the context data in some embodiments the rules may be implemented via a markup language. An example rule configuration may be implemented as follows 

In some embodiments the rules engine may be configured to cause a particular action to occur via a server action component . The server action component may perform various actions at the direction of the rules engine. For example the server action component may cause a PACS component of the server to halt a medical imaging operation if a conflict is detected between the display environment context data and constraints for a medical imaging operation. In some embodiments the rules engine may inform the client server communication component of the conflict.

In some embodiments the context datastore includes other external sources of context data. For example in some embodiments the context datastore may include a medical practitioner scheduling personnel or human resources system that provides context data indicating which practitioners are on a particular rotation on a particular day or at a particular time. In such cases embodiments may allow particular practitioners to specify certain rules or constraints for their imaging operations. In some embodiments a particular specialty or experience level of the practitioner may also be taken into account when deciding what display environment context data indicates an acceptable display environment for a particular study. Certain medical practitioners may calibrate image viewing modalities in a certain manner based on assumptions that the display environment meets certain minimum standards e.g. regulatory or site standards and or best practices hardware and or settings.

While the rules engine is depicted as a component of the server it should be appreciated that in some embodiments the rules engine could be located on or as a component of the client in addition to or as an alternative to the server based implementation depicted in . The rules engine may be implemented by context evaluation circuitry acting in concert with communications circuitry as described above with respect to .

The client action component may receive instructions from the client server communication component . The instructions may be originally generated by the rules engine and or the context processing component . The client action component may cause various changes or actions on the client in response to receiving notification of a conflict. These changes may include for example displaying a pop up notification warning a user of the conflict causing a medical imaging operation to halt until the conflict is corrected or altering settings to ensure the display environment conforms to the requirements for the medical imaging study such as by sending a notification or instructions to the display interface component to modify settings for one or more of the display devices . Other example changes may include prompting a confirmation dialogue to the user prompting whether the user wishes to change their display settings to the appropriate values. The user may be presented with an option to cancel the image operation with no further action taken and an option to accept the configuration changes which may then be performed automatically. The client action component may be implemented by context processing circuitry as described above with respect to .

At action image viewing context data and display environment context data is received. As described above with respect to the image viewing context data may be received as part of an image viewing operation and the display environment context data may be received from a display interface component. The context data may be received by means for receiving context data such as the context processing circuitry as described above with respect to .

At action a set of imaging workstation context data is generated based on the image viewing context data and the display environment context data. The set of imaging workstation context data may be generated by means for generating imaging workstation context data such as the context processing circuitry as described above with respect to . The set of imaging workstation context data may be processed locally proceeding to action and or remotely proceeding to action . At action a rules engine is used to process the set of imaging workstation context data. Processing the set of imaging workstation context data may include evaluating the display environment context data and the image viewing context data according to a set of rules. Processing the set of imaging workstation context data may be performed by means for processing the set of imaging workstation data such as the context processing circuitry described above with respect to or the context evaluation circuitry described above with respect to .

At action the imaging workstation context data is transmitted to a remote recipient such as the server describes above with respect to or the apparatus described above with respect to . The imaging workstation context data may be transmitted by means for doing so such as communications circuitry as described above with respect to .

At action results of remote processing of the imaging workstation context data may be received. Results of the remote processing may be received by communications circuitry as described above with respect to .

At action the process splits based on whether a problem i.e. a conflict between the display environment context data and the requirements for the medical imaging operation is detected. If a problem is not detected the process proceeds to action . If a problem is detected the process proceeds to action .

At action the process may allow the medical imaging operation to proceed without further action since no conflict was detected. In some embodiments allowing the medical imaging operation to proceed may include marking a graphical user interface as correct or authorized or otherwise providing an indication to a user that the display environment is suitable for performing the medical imaging operation.

At action if a problem is detected the process may take appropriate action. As described above with respect to appropriate action may include preventing the medical imaging operation from proceeding providing a warning notification to the user sending a notification to a user or external node or automatically adjusting display settings to bring the display into compliance with the requirements of the medical imaging study. Appropriate action may be taken by means for taking appropriate action such as the context processing circuitry acting in concert with the display interface circuitry as described above with respect to .

At action a set of imaging workstation context data is received from a client. The set of imaging workstation context data may be received by means for doing so such as the communications circuitry described above with respect to .

At action rule data is accessed from a context datastore to process the imaging workstation context data. For example particular rules may be accessed from the context datastore based on a type of medical imaging study indicated in the imaging workstation context data. At action the rule data is used to process the imaging workstation context data to determine if the display environment of the client is in compliance with the particular medical imaging study being performed. The rule data may be accessed and the imaging workstation context data may be processed by means for doing so such as the context evaluation circuitry described above with respect to .

At action a determination is made as to whether the processing performed at action indicates a problem in the client display environment. If a problem is not detected the process may transmit a notification to the client at action indicating that the medical imaging study may proceed. The notification may be transmitted by means for doing so such as the communications circuitry described above with respect to . If a problem is detected the process proceeds to action and appropriate action is taken. As described above appropriate action may include sending a notification to an administrator sending a notification to the client device or the like as described above. The appropriate action may be taken by means for doing so such as the context evaluation circuitry acting in concert with the communications circuitry as described above with respect to .

It will be understood that each element of the flowcharts and combinations of elements in the flowcharts may be implemented by various means such as hardware firmware processor circuitry and or other devices associated with execution of software including one or more computer program instructions. For example one or more of the procedures described above may be embodied by computer program instructions. In this regard the computer program instructions which embody the procedures described above may be stored by a memory of an apparatus employing an embodiment of the present invention and executed by a processor of the apparatus. As will be appreciated any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus e.g. hardware to produce a machine such that the resulting computer or other programmable apparatus implements the functions specified in the flowchart blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture the execution of which implements the function specified in the flowchart blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide operations for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowchart and combinations of blocks in the flowchart can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In some embodiments certain ones of the operations above may be modified or further amplified. Furthermore in some embodiments additional optional operations may be included. Modifications additions or amplifications to the operations above may be performed in any order and in any combination.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

