---

title: Wearable personal digital device with changeable bendable battery and expandable display used as standalone electronic payment card
abstract: Provided is a wearable personal digital device and methods for enlarging display space using the wearable personal digital device. The wearable personal digital device may comprise a processor, a memory unit, an expandable display, a camera, a projector, a communication circuit, a swipe card reader, one or more biometric sensors, one or more accelerometers, a housing, and a band. The expandable display is be communicatively coupled to the processor and configured to expand to enlarge display space using a flip up portion, detachable portion, or bending the expandable display. The band may include one or more rechargeable batteries configured to power the wearable personal digital device. Biometric sensors and accelerometers provide data for monitoring health and activity of the user. The swipe card reader is configured to read payment card data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08851372&OS=08851372&RS=08851372
owner: 
number: 08851372
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140508
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 760 214 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL DEVICE FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS AND PERSONAL USE filed on Feb. 6 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 776 852 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL FLEXIBLE CLOUD GAME MULTIMEDIA COMMUNICATION AND COMPUTING DEVICE filed on Feb. 26 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 875 311 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING MOBILE PAYMENT ACCOUNT MOBILE BARCODE AND UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE CURRENCY filed on May 2 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 620 775 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING CODES AND CASHBACK BUSINESS MODEL filed on Sep. 15 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 661 207 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR RECEIVING COMPENSATION FOR USING MOBILE PAYMENT SERVICES filed on Oct. 26 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 973 146 entitled WEARABLE AUGMENTED REALITY EYEGLASS COMMUNICATION DEVICE INCLUDING MOBILE PHONE AND MOBILE COMPUTING VIA VIRTUAL TOUCH SCREEN GESTURE CONTROL AND NEURON COMMAND filed on Aug. 22 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 646 706 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PREVENTING CARD PAYMENT FRAUD AND RECEIVING PAYMENTS USING CODES AND MOBILE DEVICES filed on Oct. 7 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 287 279 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS TO ADVERTISE AND SELL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES VIA CLOUD GAMING ENVIRONMENTS filed on Nov. 2 2011 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 185 491 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING filed on Jul. 18 2011 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates generally to personal mobile devices and more specifically to wearable personal digital device with expandable display and bendable battery where the expandable display can be used an electronic or virtual payment card.

Mobile devices gain growing importance in daily activities of their users with more and more functions being performed by mobile devices. Some of such functions may include mobile communication mobile payments health monitoring and so forth. In addition to that carrying a mobile phone tablet PC or laptop may not always be comfortable. For example during physical activity or leisure time. While using wearable mobile devices e.g. wristwatch phones may be inconvenient because of insufficient display size limiting the volume of data that can be shown and impeding user interaction with the device.

Furthermore small size of wearable mobile phones provides little space for a battery so conventional devices have low capacity batteries restricting lifetime of the wearable mobile devices.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided is a device and methods for enlarging display space using a wearable personal digital device. The wearable personal digital device may be a device for communication mobile payments health monitoring and data sharing. The wearable personal digital device may be worn on a wrist arm neck and other part of the body of a user. The wearable personal digital device may comprise a watch module a processor a memory unit a battery an expandable screen a camera a projector a communication circuit a swipe card reader one or more biometric sensors one or more accelerometers a housing and a band. The expandable display may be communicatively coupled to the processor and configured to expand to enlarge display space. The expandable display may be a touchscreen display configured to enable user interaction through touch. Various embodiments of the expandable display may include a flip up display a detachable display and a bendable display. In some embodiments the expandable screen may include a bendable display that can be bent around a wrist of the user or bent together to minimize the display size while not in use.

To facilitate interaction with the wearable personal digital device the display may be expanded by flipping up the display or attaching a detachable display portion in a front or rear part of the device. Additionally the wearable personal digital device may facilitate mobile payments due to a swipe card reader to read data of a payment card to be used to make or receive payment.

Furthermore the battery may be included in the band thus allowing more space for battery accommodation.

The wearable personal digital device may be used as a personal health and fitness monitor. Due to accelerometers the wearable personal digital device may track activity and energy expenditures of the user and monitor biometric parameters such as blood pressure pulse hart rate arterial properties and so forth.

In further exemplary embodiments modules subsystems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features and exemplary embodiments are described below.

A wearable personal digital device with an expandable display and related methods are described herein. The display of the wearable personal digital WPD device may be configured to expand through flip up attaching an additional display portion unbending the display and so forth. By expanding the display a common enlarged display space is created. The enlarged display space facilitates user interaction with the device by providing more space for displaying data. Additionally the WPD device may include a band coupled to the display. The band may include one or more rechargeable batteries to power the WPD device. Thus the life time of the WPD device may be increased.

Furthermore the WPD device may perform a function of a health and activity monitor. The WPD device may sense biometric data associated with the user blood pressure pulse heart rate and so forth using one or more sensors and or receive data on user movements using a GPS module and or one or more accelerometers. Biometric data and user movement data may be shown of the display of the WPD device stored in the memory of the WPD device and or processed by the processor of the WPD device to produce historical or averaged data.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which the WPD device and methods for enlarging display space of the wearable personal digital device can be implemented. The environment may include a network a wearable personal digital WPD device a mobile base station a GSM satellite and one or more external devices . The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network may be a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication. The WPD device may communicate with the GPS satellite via the network to exchange data on a geographical location of the WPD device . Additionally the WPD device may communicate with mobile network operators using the mobile base station .

For the purposes of communication the WPD device may be compatible with one or more of the following network standards GSM CDMA LTE IMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS 4G 5G 6G and upper RFID and so forth.

The expandable display may be configured to enlarge display space through various ways that will be described in detail with reference to . The expandable display may include a touchscreen display or any other type of display configured to enable user interaction with the device through touch. The expandable display may be communicatively coupled to the processor and configured to graphically display data transmitted by the processor. The processor may communicate with the memory unit camera projector control elements connection port and swipe card reader . The local processing may be performed by the processor using various software applications installed on the WPD device . The processor may be further configured to download applications receive and send text video multimedia data.

The projector may be configured to project a virtual display on any surface in proximity to the WPD device . The user may interact with the virtual display through movements of hands arms fingers and so forth. For example movements of user s fingers may be captured by the camera and processed by the processor in relation to the virtual display. Thus user commands through the virtual display may be received.

The camera may be communicatively coupled to the processor and configured to capture photos record video and so forth. Additionally the camera may be further configured to capture one or more barcodes. The one or more barcodes may include electronic key data a link to a web resource a payment request advertising information and other information. In some embodiments the camera may be detachable and pluggable to a digital eyeglass device. The one or more barcodes include a linear dimensional code a two dimensional code a snap tag code and a QR code and other machine readable code.

The WPD device may have wireless communication capabilities enabled using at least the communication circuit. The communication circuit may be communicatively coupled to the processor and configured to communicate with one or more external devices via a network wirelessly of by wires using one or more of the following a Bluetooth module a WiFi module the communication port including a universal serial bus USB port a parallel port an infrared transceiver port a radiofrequency transceiver port and so forth. The WPD device may have internet connectivity using cellular networks e.g. 3G 4G as well as Wi Fi and other types of networks. Some additional examples of such networks are GSM CDMA LTE IMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS RFID 4G 5G 6G and upper.

The WPD device may further comprise an operating system executing on the processor. The operating system may include Android iOS Firefox OS wearable OS and so forth.

The one or more control elements may include buttons wheels sliders and so forth. The one or more control elements may be used to control operation or functions of the WPD device .

Additionally the WPD device may include the swipe card reader to read payment cards data. The swipe card reader may be located on either side of the WPD device vertically or horizontally. Using the swipe card reader the user may make or receive payments in a secure manner. Furthermore the WPD device may enable a Bluetooth low energy payment. Therefore a user does not even have to speak to a cashier or visit a cash register to make a purchase the user can scan the code of the product and hit purchase button of the relative application of the WPD device .

In an example embodiment when the user checks online at the store the user name and photo can appear on a device associated with the store such as a Point of Sale POS system. The user can use the WPD device to pay for the products via universal digital mobile currency face verification. The cashier can complete the transaction by clicking on the profile picture of the user on the POS system.

In an example embodiment the WPD device is associated with one or more of the following a transactional payment based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing a credit card mobile payment an online wallet a QR code payment contactless near field communication a cloud based mobile payment an audio signal based payment a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payment an in application payment an SDK payment an API payment a social networking payment a direct carrier and bank co operation and so forth.

The band may be attached to the housing to and adapted to secure the WPD device on a body or clothes of the user. In various embodiments the WPD device may be secured on a wrist an arm a neck a head a leg a waist an ear a finger or any other part of the human body or on any part of the clothes of the user. The band may be adapted to secure the WPD device under within or on clothing. The band in various embodiments may be implemented in various materials and or configurations. The band may be an expansion bracelet one piece band two piece band and so forth. In some embodiments the band may include a clasp adapted to fix the band in a specific position to secure the WPD device around the wrist. The clasp may include various types of clasps buckles tongue clasps lobster claws toggle clasps Velcro and so forth.

The band may include a rechargeable battery to power the WPD device . The battery can include at least silicon polymer and stainless steel and be hypoallergenic lightweight and wear resisting. The band can be configured to adjust a band size for snug engagement. In various embodiments the battery is bendable includes a plurality of button batteries a curved battery a stepped battery a cable battery or otherwise configured to ensure comfortable wearing.

The curved battery is not bendable. The battery of this type is rigid however it is molded into curved shapes to complement curved screens and form factors.

The stepped battery includes two or more batteries that are joined together like steps. This allows the battery to fit into tight or irregular spaces that could not house standard rectangular batteries and the design allows for a certain increase in storage capacity.

The cable battery is extremely bendable. Moreover the cable battery is waterproof and resistant to overheating. Such batteries are difficult to break because they adjust to body movements and absorb impact.

Instead of using an expensive electronic printing technique for flexible batteries standard battery electrochemical architectures can be adapted to flexible materials. For example the base of the battery can be a flexible plastic but the carbon nanotubes and other nanoparticles can serve as active components in the battery. The cathode anode and even the electrolyte can be composed of nanoparticles in a semi solid paste.

Alternatively the battery can include a thin film lithium ion battery. A high performance lithium ion flexible battery can be bendable and fully fledged flexible. Such batteries are built by sequentially depositing several layers a current collector a cathode an electrolyte an anode and a protective layer on a brittle substrate made of mica. Then the mica is manually delaminated using adhesive tape and the battery is enclosed between two polymer sheets to improve mechanical resistance.

Another alternative is a sodium ion battery with flexible molybdenum disulfide electrodes. The sodium ion battery can be made of interleaved molybdenum disulfide and grapheme nanosheets which can be both an active material to efficiently store sodium atoms and a flexible current collector. In some cases a composite paper can be used as a negative electrode in sodium ion batteries.

In some embodiments one or more solar cells may be disposed on the outer surface of the band . The solar cells may be electrically connected to a battery of the WPD device and may be configured to charge the battery of the WPD device . In other embodiments the WPD device may be configured to charge using natural movement vibrations for example when the user walks is jogging makes exercises and so forth. In yet other embodiments the WPD device may charge wirelessly using an external wireless charger accessory.

In various embodiments the WPD device may be metal banded leather banded plastic banded jewelry banded rimmed by jewelry and or diamonds on a bezel rimmed by jewelry and or diamonds on an edge of the display and so forth.

In some embodiments the WPD device may include one or more accelerometers to track activity of the user for purposes of monitoring energy expenditures or calories burned evaluating sleep quality calculating breaths per minute snoring breaks steps and or distance walked and so forth.

Additionally the WPD device may sense biometric parameters such as blood pressure pulse hart rate arterial properties of the user the quality of sleep using one or more sensors . The one or more sensors may include one or more of the following a heartbeat rate meter a glucose level meter a pressure sensor body temperature meter environment temperature meter one lead EGO and so forth. The biometric parameters sensed by the one or more sensors may be shown on the display stored to the memory and or processed by the processor to receive historical or averaged biometric data. In various embodiments the one or more sensors may be located in various locations such as to ensure a secure contact with the user skin or to avoid it depending on the parameter sensed by a sensor.

Furthermore the band may be adapted to be filled with air to perform blood pressure measuring and may include a pressure adjustment device. The band may be detachable and changeable with an additional band including an additional battery. shows a detached view that represents the band detached from the expandable display .

In some embodiments access to the WPD device may be protected by a password a Personal Identification Number PIN code biometric authorization and so forth. Biometric authorization may be performed using one or more biometric sensors and may include fingerprint scanning palm scanning face scanning retina scanning and so forth. In some embodiments fingerprint scanning may be performed using a fingerprint reader integrated in the WPD device or detachably connected to the WPD device. The scanned fingerprint may be matched to one or more approved fingerprints stored in the memory of the WPD device . The access to the device may be granted if the scanned fingerprint matches one of the stored fingerprints otherwise access may be denied.

In certain example embodiments the WPD device may sense and track position of the user to control snoring of the user by means of one or more accelerometers and or biometric sensors.

In further embodiments the WPD device may be used to record send receive and review texts images video audio photo multi media and other data.

The WPD device may further include a GPS module not shown configured to track geographical location of the device. Such information may be applied for spatial and positional awareness tracking monitoring position of a child a senior or a patient. In some embodiments the WPD device may connect to one or more external devices for example other WPD devices synchronize with the one or more external devices in real time tracks a geographical location of the one or more external devices in real time and provide communication capabilities using an embedded emergency button configured to give a medical alert signal a request for help signal or another informational signal. Thus users may track geographical location of each other. Additionally the WPD device may include a three dimensional motion sensor containing an Advanced RISC Machine ARM processor. The three dimensional motion sensor may be associated with boxing fencing basketball bowling and other sports played with hands.

Additionally the WPD device may include one or more internal sensors configured to monitor user movements in a three dimensional trajectory identify user activities identify a specific motion fingerprint of an exercise evaluate user physical form count repetitions calculate calories burned and measure user success.

Additionally the WPD device may be configured to control home appliances and applications through gestures recognize gesturing of letters in the mid air as a text settle payment of bills in one action by making a single gesture detect incoming transmissions and or alerts through built in vibration and light emitting diodes use GPS or iBeacon or a Bluetooth low energy beacon to make payments at participating retail stores restaurants and make person to person payments make direct payment by tracking a number with a finger and make payments by gesturing a checkmark.

Additionally the WPD device may include an alert unit not shown configured to alert the user about one or more events by vibration and or sound. For example the WPD device notify the user about incoming messages and or data remind to take pills alert the time when blood pressure and glucose level of the user are high remind to make exercises serve as an alarm clock and so forth.

In some embodiments the WPD device may further comprise one or more subscriber identification module SIM cards that can be used for connectivity and other purposes. Also the WPD device may include one or more additional memory units to expand storage capacity of the device. In some embodiments the WPD device may offer options for expandable memory by including a physical interface configured to receive memory devices external to the device. In some embodiments the physical interface may include an external miceSecureDigital microSD slot. Aside from microSD slot the WPD device may provide for adding an external memory device using other interfaces such as for example MultiMediaCard MMC SD miniSD Firewire and others.

Moreover a two way radio transceiver not shown may be included in the WPD device for communication and personal emergency response as well as entertainment use.

To provide for giving an alarm signal in case of danger or when help is needed the WPD device may comprise an emergency button. The emergency button may be used by children seniors patients and so forth. The alarm signal may comprise a signal sent to an external device connected with the WPD device a sound signal generated by the WPD device a light signal another signal or a combination of them.

In some example embodiments the WPD device may further comprise a microphone not shown . The microphone may be configured to sense voice data and transmit the voice data to the processor for processing. The voice data may include a voice command a voice memo a voice message and so forth. Thus a user may give voice commands to the WPD device for example when jogging record voice memos send voice messages and so forth.

To facilitate user interaction with the WPD device the expandable display may be expanded thus enlarging the display space. Display expanding may be performed by flipping up a portion of the expandable display as illustrated by .

In this embodiment the display may include a basic display and a flip up display . The basic display may be immovably fixed to the band while the flip up display may be displaceable between an open position and a closed position .

In the open position the flip up display may expose the basic display . The inner portion of the flip up display and the basic display may form a common display space. The user may interact with the device via the common display space through touch.

In the closed position the flip up display may hide the basic display so that the user can see only an outer portion of the flip up display . In the closed position data may be represented on the outer portion of the flip up display and the user may interact with the WPD device via the outer portion through touch. The expandable display in the closed position may be substantially 85 millimeters to 54 millimeters.

In other embodiments display expanding may be performed by connecting a detachable portion of the display as illustrated by .

The WPD device may have a basic display permanently mounted in the housing. Additionally a detachable display may be attached to the WPD device to expand the display. The basic display and the detachable display include matching fixing elements . The fixing elements may be configured to attach the detachable display to the basic display .

In the detached position the basic display may function independently. The data transmitted by the processor may be represented on the basic display and user commands given through touch may be received. The detachable display when not attached to the WPD device may be used as a standalone device for calculation electronic payments and so forth.

In some embodiments as represented on the detached position the WPD device may have a credit card sized display . The credit card sized display may have a magnetic stripe not shown and integrated circuit IC card reader not shown . The credit card sized display may be adapted to wirelessly couple to a front rear left side or right side of the basic display .

In the attached position the detachable display may form a common display space with the basic display and serve as an additional display portion. In the attached position the processor may transmit and receive data associated with the common display space.

In some embodiments the size of the detachable display may be substantially 80 to 85 millimeters in length 54 millimeters in width and 0.84 millimeters thick or big dimensions. For example the detachable display maybe approximately the size of a credit card.

Though shows attaching the detachable display to a rear part of the basic display the detachable display may be attached alternatively. For example the detachable display may be attached in the front part of the basic display .

In some embodiments the expandable or detachable display is a connected standalone device that can hold and behave like a smart card a proximity card an IC card a magnetic strip card or an electronic or virtual payment card. The expandable display card can store data of debit cards credit cards gift cards loyalty cards membership cards prepaid cards and so forth. Instead of carrying several cards the user can only carry the WPD. Adding a card to be stored by the expandable display requires a few steps. The user takes a picture of the front of the card and the back of the card swipes the card through a swipe card reader of wearable device and verifies that he is the cardholder by entering a verification code providing a finger print and so forth. When the user desires to use a card he can select one of the cards from the list of cards stored by the WPD. When the card is selected the expandable display shows the pictures of the card. For example the expandable display can show the picture of the front of the card on one side and the picture of the back of the card on the other side. In some embodiments the expandable display can further include a processor configured to manage and synchronize the card data.

The card data stored by the expandable display can include a card organization a card number a card expiration date a card security code a card holder name and the like.

In the detached position the expandable display or detachable display can be used similar to a payment card in a consumer s wallet. For example the expandable display can be used with dip style card readers for example in automated teller machines ATMs at gas stations restaurants the mall the gym and so forth.

The expandable display can be charged from the WPD device when the expandable display is in the attached position .

The expandable display can have an auto lock feature that works based on proximity detected by a proximity sensor included in the expandable display or in another element of the WPD device . Thus the expandable display can be detached swiped but does not allow to change which card is selected. In the event that the expandable display loses contact with the WPD device for a certain period of time that can be set by the user the expandable display can automatically deactivate itself.

In some embodiments integrity of the expandable display card data can be ensured using 128 bit or 256 bit encryption for all storage and communication. Additionally the expandable display can alert user in the event that the detached expandable display is outside a proximity zone automatically disable certain device functions based on proximity to the WPD device or fully deactivate itself based on the period of time the expandable display has been away from the WPD device .

The bendable display may be mounted on the band of the WPD device . In some embodiments a flexible power source may be connected to the bendable display in a sandwich like manner. The bendable configuration of the display and the power source may allow the WPD device to fold over 90 or more degrees like a sheet of paper or to roll up into a scroll. The bendable display may be folded at least 110 000 times without creasing. The bendable display may be folded in half in three parts where two side parts cover from sides a central part of the device or in three parts where all three parts are of the same width and a first side part covers a central part and a second side part covers the first side part. The thickness of the flexible display and the flexible power source may be approximately 0.1 mm to 2.5 mm.

The flexible configuration of the bendable display may allow the user to fold the bendable display from an open position in a closed position when the user is not using the WPD device and unfold and employ the device when desired. For example to make a call the user may unfold the bendable display to the open position . In the open position the bendable display may provide enlarged display space to improve user experience.

In some embodiments the bendable display may replace the band. To secure the WPD device on a wrist the user may fold the bendable display around the wrist.

Being worn on a part of human body or clothes due to its flexible configuration the WPD device may provide for convenient carrying in many situations and environments such as physical activity sports travels leisure time and so forth.

In some embodiments the WPD device may be compatible with any third party application and may comprise an application programming interface API and a software development kit SDK .

In an example embodiment the WPD device may be adapted to be scanned by a POS system. shows a schematic representation of scanning a barcode displayed on the WPD device by a barcode scanner of the POS system .

The expandable display may include a flip up display a detachable display a bendable display and so forth.

In some embodiments the method may optionally comprise projecting a virtual display on a surface using a projector

The WPD device may be configured to monitor health and activity in accordance to some embodiments. Biometric parameters of the user may be sensed by one or more biometric sensors. The biometric sensors may include sensors for measuring one or more of the following a blood pressure a pulse a heart rate a glucose level a body temperature an environment temperature arterial properties and so forth. The results of the measuring may be shown on the display and or stored to the memory of the device to track pressure changes. The biometric parameters of the user may be processed by the processor to provide data on estimated trends of some parameters such as progress bars graphs charts and so forth.

In some embodiments the WPD device may be configured to provide good habits charts capabilities. Such charts may enable the user to set a goal e.g. eat healthy food make one s bed in the morning and so forth and view progress in its achieving by registering events that comply with the goal set. The goals set progress and or results may be sent to a social networking service to share and get feedback. If an event complying with the set goal is not registered the WPD device may give an alert signal for example by vibration sound light and so forth.

In some embodiments data related to biometric parameters of the user may be transmitted wirelessly to one or more external devices and or online services.

In some embodiments the WPD device adapted to monitor health and activity may be configured to continuously monitor biometric parameters of the user and produce an alarm or otherwise notify the user when one or more of the biometric parameters exceed predetermined limits.

Additionally the WPD device may be configured to display health and activity data associated with the user. On a user request the WPD device may measure various biometric parameters of the user display the biometric parameters on the display of the WPD device and or store the measured parameters in the memory. The biometric parameters may be processed to receive summary data.

Thus various devices with expanded display and methods for enlarging display space have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

