---

title: Communication streams
abstract: Embodiments described herein organize and percolate important messaging and information to the top of a communications pile, and create a high ratio of front-and-center communication versus chatter communication. This is analogous to creating a high signal-to-noise ratio in signal communications. Thus, embodiments described herein raise the desired signal level high above the noise level to obtain a visual at-a-glance level of communication with reduced clutter or no clutter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938514&OS=08938514&RS=08938514
owner: Rofori Corporation
number: 08938514
owner_city: Manassas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140711
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 845 019 filed on Jul. 11 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description which may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly or impliedly admitted as prior art against the present invention.

Several forms of electronic communications are available such as e mail personal and professional social networks blogs instant messaging texting and chatting. However there is little to no organization within each of these types of electronic communications. As a result this lack of organization leads many people to utilize several of these sources to meet their various needs.

Many organizations or businesses also utilize some form of business records or artifacts such as status reports activity logs and time reports to keep current with operations. These reports can be very time consuming since information is gathered from multiple unrelated sources. This lack of organization within various sources causes an overload of unrelated and unorganized communication and information.

Embodiments described herein organize and percolate important messaging and information to the top of a communications pile and create a high ratio of front and center communication versus chatter communication. This is analogous to creating a high signal to noise ratio in signal communications. Thus embodiments described herein raise the desired signal level high above the noise level to obtain a visual at a glance level of communication with reduced clutter or no clutter.

Embodiments described herein also consolidate communications wherein many products such as reports can be derived from an original body or pool of communications. Accordingly communications from one source such as email can be fully integrated with other sources of communications. This creates an effective and efficient one stop shop of communication in a centralized and easily organized manner.

Embodiments described herein provide a visual accuracy and timely situational awareness using activity focused communication streams. A communication stream as described herein may be a private message stream for a defined group created by a team leader or owner. Entities are invited to join the private stream as stream members. Entities can be individuals organizations companies associations committees sensors other machine systems and the like. The stream is usually centered around an objective project or activity theme or goal. Individual stream members may post activity status messages which are tagged with an individual tag or icon that is representative of the messages content. Examples include but are not limited to a status information issue resolution deliverable question answer concern feedback comment task assigned task completed meeting started or meeting ended type of message.

The displayed icon allows stream members to immediately determine the importance and the kind of activity that is occurring by a visual identification at a glance without reading or interpreting the message. The stream owner can configure message types and category data values along with relationship rules such as an issue resolution a question answer a task assignment completion topical discussions automatic knowledge creation instant status reporting milestones and deliverables. As an example when a task is assigned messages are threaded to the task activity. An intelligent search engine mixes and matches combinations of category field values with message words or phrases.

A communication stream can be used in status reporting. A combination of micro blogs from stream members and filtering by selected parameters provide a comprehensive status report with no additional work or input from outside sources. The communication stream can also be tied to other devices such as a smart device to provide alerts and notification of events milestones status inactivity and excess activity for example.

Embodiments described herein enable real time social networking collaboration publishing and feedback relating to different customers or members from a local and or geographically dispersed team. Real time data collection is also enabled including but not limited to billable hours activity notes milestone accomplishments issues and problem resolution information from individual members in a manner that is integral with their normal daily work activity.

Described herein is a computer implemented method that includes generating at at least one server a communication stream having one or more stream members and receiving at the at least one server a plurality of stream messages from the one or more stream members the stream messages each including in part message content and a message type. The method further includes adding at the at least one server the stream messages to the communication stream to be accessible by the one or more stream members and analyzing at the at least one server the message types of the stream messages and forming correlations therebetween the correlations being a function of complimentary message rules. The method also includes serving from the at least one server to a client device communication stream status updates to a client device the communication stream status updates being based in part on message types of the stream messages and an analysis of correlations formed between the stream messages.

The method further comprises analyzing at the at least one server and in response to receiving a response message to a stream message the message type of the stream message and the message type of the response message to form a correlation therebetween the correlation being a function of the complimentary message rules.

The method further comprises filtering at the at least one server the messages based on the message types.

The method further comprises filtering at the at least one server the messages based on the message types and correlations formed between the stream messages.

The communication stream further includes category indicators identifying various aspects of activities relating to an objective of the communication stream.

The method further comprises filtering at the at least one server the messages based on the category indicator and the message type.

The communication stream status updates include metrics relating to stream messages having correlations satisfying the complimentary message rules.

The method further comprises serving from the at least one server to the client device a user interface having a first section containing a plurality of stream messages each containing a visual indicator corresponding to the message type of the particular stream message and a second section containing details of a select stream message.

Described herein is a computer implemented method for providing a communication stream on a client device the method comprising transmitting from the client device to at least one server a command for the at least one server to generate a communication stream having one or more stream members a user of the client device being one member of the communication stream transmitting from the client device to the at least one server a plurality of stream messages the stream messages each including in part message content and a message type receiving at the client device from the at least one server the communication stream accessible by the one or more stream members and having the stream messages the communication stream further having correlations formed between the message types of the stream messages the correlations being a function of complimentary message rules and receiving at the client device and from the at least one server communication stream status updates to a client device the communication stream status updates being based in part on message types of the stream messages and an analysis of correlations formed between the stream messages.

The method further comprises receiving at the client device and from the at least one server messages filtered based on the message types and correlations formed between the stream messages.

The communication stream further includes category indicators identifying various aspects of activities relating to an objective of the communication stream.

The method further comprises receiving at the client device from the at least one server messages filtered based on the category indicator and the message type.

The communication stream status updates include metrics relating to stream messages having correlations satisfying the complimentary message rules.

The foregoing paragraphs have been provided by way of general introduction and are not intended to limit the scope of the following claims. The described embodiments together with further advantages will be best understood by reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views illustrates how embodiments described herein integrate one or more realms of communication together to form an integrated and unified realm. Communication realms indicate various services that provide different types of communication paradigms. For example communication realms can include consumer social networking consumer group messaging and commercial collaboration applications. The consumer social networking realm may include features such as messaging photos videos and public domains. Two consumer social networking entities include Facebook and Twitter . However several other established entities exist within the consumer social networking realm. The consumer group messaging realm may include features such as group messaging photos and public domains. Consumer group messaging entities include but are not limited to Beluga GroupMe Fast Society Yobongo and TextPlus . The commercial collaboration application realm may include features such as group messaging and shared files. Commercial collaboration application entities include but are not limited to Chatter Yammer Office Medium Basecamp and CubeTree . Embodiments described herein integrate some or all facets of social networking group messaging and collaboration into a single realm to provide a unified communication experience having decreased communication clutter.

The graph of illustrates an effective communication signal to noise ratio according to embodiments described herein. Even as the noise level increases dramatically due to increased communication volume and decreased communication friction the effective communication signal to noise ratio stays high. In other words the amount of relevant and related communications becomes easier to identify and manage even as communication volume is increased due to easier communication paradigms provided by the system described herein. Thus as will be described herein embodiments provide the tools for important and relevant communications to take a front and center stage for immediate reception and easy organization by a communication recipient.

In contrast embodiments described herein and as illustrated by are team centric. A team centric concept more accurately describes our real lives which makes this a successful and accurate model. As an example for illustrative purposes only our lives may contain a family component a work or career component various social components a recreational component a medical health component an educational component etc. Rather than crush each of these components into the same communication bin embodiments described herein separate these components into individual streams where a stream is defined as a private message stream for a defined group created by a team leader or owner. In the example described above an individual may be a team leader in some of the streams and a team member in other streams. As another non limiting example a stream owner may generate multiple streams designating individual work projects. Each stream may have some overlapping team members as well as different team members based on who is assigned to work on the various work projects. Further sub streams can be created as further described herein where a subset of team members may be involved based on the particulars of the project and a desired level of granularity.

Several other embodiments can be utilized in addition to or in combination with that described previously to meet the needs of the stream users. A message tray may be included in the stream message and can include executable icons or indicators illustrating actions such as reply or more content. These types of actions would easily allow a stream member to reply to the message or to see if there is any additional content which cannot be viewed in the current stream message pane. A message type indicator icon may also be included on the lower left side of the stream message . The message type indicator indicates what type of stream message the message author has created thereby providing an easy way for a stream member to come up to speed on what the message is about or how it may relate to other messages in the stream. A stream is a way of identifying via words or visual indicators the relevance and importance of the message. Some of the basic icons could be representative of information that is being provided in the stream message itself such as a deliverable a question asked information provided an answer provided an issue a resolution a resource needed a comment and or an urgent message. However several other message types and their respective icons are contemplated by embodiments described herein which can be customized and extrapolated upon to meet the needs of the stream members.

The content information includes information representing the content of the message to be conveyed to the other stream members. For example the content may be textual information audio information or video information. The member name includes the person creating or posting the message. The mode information indicates the mode of a particular stream message. In select embodiments and as a non limiting example the mode of a stream message can be a message format task format video meeting format recorded audio meetings or chat log transcripts. In other words a stream member may choose to post a message to the stream and would therefore select a message format mode. If a stream member wants to assign a task or post a task to the stream the stream member could select the task mode. Further if a stream member wants to initiate a meeting the stream member would select the associated meeting mode. It is contemplated that the meeting mode also includes non limiting examples such as a teleconference mode that may be audio only text or any combinations thereof.

The message type information includes information identifying the type of message that is being posted to the stream. The message type information may defined differently for different streams and can be utilized to identify status events or milestones that relate to managing the progress towards an accomplishment of an objective relating to the stream. As described previously non limiting examples of message types include information comment feedback concern question answer issue resolution and deliverable. However other message types may be manually generated by a stream owner or generated by another system as described further herein. The information message type indicates that a stream member is posting information about a certain topic condition event or perhaps a status update with respect to an assigned task that has been posted to the stream. The comment message type indicates a comment a stream member may have with respect to a certain topic within the stream or with respect to another message that has been posted by a different stream member. The feedback message type indicates feedback that a stream member may have provided to another stream member. For example one stream member may be seeking thoughts on something they have posted or on a project they are working on and another stream member can reply with feedback. The concern message type indicates that a stream member may be concerned with something that is contained within the stream. For example a stream member may express concern with respect to a deadline of a particular task or with respect to feedback or answers that another stream member has posted on the stream. Other examples may be contemplated for each message type as to how the message type applies to the stream.

The question message type indicates that the stream member has a question with respect to a certain topic. The stream member can thereby post a message having a question message type thereby providing an impetus for other members of the stream to answer the question upon seeing the message type. The answers are posted in response to the question and therefore have their own message type. Issues are another message type that can be utilized by stream members to indicate a problem they may be having with a particular task or if they may not be available at certain times or dates for a particular meeting for example. Like with the question answer message type paradigm a resolution message type may be provided which posts a stream message indicating a resolution to the issue. For example one stream member may indicate that he ll be available for the meeting and can take the place of another stream member who may not be available. The deliverable message type indicates that a deliverable is required for a particular task assignment or project within the stream. It allows other stream members to know that a deliverable will be required upon completion. The deliverable message type may also indicate that the stream member is posting a deliverable in response to a previously assigned task project and or other assignment or objective.

As described herein to provide stream members with an easy understanding of what is taking place on the stream each message type comes with a distinct icon or other visual or graphical element that is displayed within the stream message thereby allowing a user to quickly grasp the type of each message. Further in select embodiments and as described further herein stream members may be required to select a message type when posting a message to the stream. Therefore in a stream of messages which already have decreased clutter due to their content being directed to a particular stream the system further reduces communication clutter by allowing stream members to quickly peruse stream messages by message type. A stream member tasked to resolve any issues within the stream may focus on messages having a question message type or issue message type thereby allowing the stream member to efficiently manage his time within the stream. Further information with respect to the message type information is provided herein particularly with respect to .

In selected embodiments the system may limit the amount of message types that can be generated by the stream owner to a predetermined value. For example the system may limit the number of message types to seven. The stream owner has the option of placing this limitation on the number of message types or allowing an unlimited amount of message types. Limiting the number of message types prevents an overwhelming amount of various messages having a myriad of message types which has the potential to introduce noise into the communication stream.

The options information can include but is not limited to information such as whether the message is urgent whether any links are to be included within the message whether files are uploaded with the message and whether the message is for internal use only. When a message includes links and or uploaded files this information is also stored along with the message in the form of external information which includes the links or provides pointers to the stored location of various uploaded files. In select embodiments the message data structure itself can store the uploaded files as well.

The categories field of the message can include information that is established by a stream owner such as whether the message relates to a certain activity taking place within the stream. Accordingly the categories field may be used to relate messages to other aspects of a stream s activity such as project management timesheet or other tracking system identification codes or activity categories due dates occurrence dates and the like. For example the message being posted may be related to a particular task and therefore the user may select from a list of tasks included within the stream when posting a message. Thus a message created using a particular category field will have a category indicator located within the message to alert other stream members of the particular category the message relates to in the stream. This indicator can be textual or a visual indicator. A category field can be called any name that is relevant to the particular stream activity that describes the items in the list. Another example of a category field is activity. The activity category field would list individual activity items within that field. Other examples of category fields include but are not limited to start time end time due date and state. A category field can also be specific names such as a listing of all committees in which the user is a participating member.

Accordingly various category fields can be generated based on an objective of the stream and activities within the stream. For example a project manager might use the start time and end time category fields as well as a state category field indicated a state in which a stream member performed the activity. A work item category field may also be included having a list of project task codes for Timesheet and Work breakdown structure reporting. A Board of Directors may define other category fields such as an Activity List of items having items such as Board of Development Committee Country Evaluation Executive Committee Finance Committee full board and Policy Committee. 

Thus the category fields provide an increased layer of noise reduction by allowing stream members to relate messages to activities relating to an objective of the stream. They also provided enhanced filtering opportunities as the system can filter various stream messages based on the category field to quickly determine the status of the particular category fields or a general status of overall stream activity. Further the system can combine this filtering technique with the filtering techniques described herein with respect to the message types to provide a more fine tuned filtering of messages that relate solely to a particular category field as well as a message type . For example with respect to the above noted example of the Board of Directors stream a stream owner or stream member could generate status reports to determine the amount of issues that have arisen as well as the amount of issues that have been resolved based on message type but limit this inquiry solely to issues resolution on the Board Development Committee.

The stream information field indicates the stream to which the message is assigned. Accordingly communication clutter is decreased and the signal to noise ratio of communications is increased by having messages assigned to particular streams rather than having one newsfeed with a plurality of information from a variety of sources. Further in select embodiments messages can be posted to one or more streams if the message is relevant to different streams. For example if a project at an enterprise is separated into three streams having teams that may need to coordinate between projects one stream could be devices for this coordination or stream members of the various streams could post messages on other streams to improve communication between the groups while maintaining a high signal to noise ratio.

The internal links indicates that the message is linked to other messages within the stream. For example if a stream member replies to a particular message posted in the stream the two messages will automatically be linked. Any additional responses to either of these messages will cause the additional messages to be linked to one or both original messages. Alternatively or in addition to links may be formed based on the message types indicated within the stream messages. For example links may be formed based on question answer relationships or issue resolution relationships. As further described herein this link information can then be used when generating reports to determine statistics with respect to these message types. The linking may be created via linked lists data stacks or other data structure methodologies as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Further relationship rules or complimentary message rules can be generated for the various message types such as question answer. Accordingly if a stream member posts a stream message having a question message type and another stream member posts a response having an answer message type then these two messages would satisfy the complimentary message rule thereby forming a link or correlation there between. This correlation can then be use when filtering messages to determine which messages having a correlating message type of been linked with a corresponding complimentary message and which messages have not been linked. For example the system based on the message types can filter a list of messages based on message type to determine how many messages of each message type exist. The system can also filter alone or in conjunction with a message type filter based on the correlations analyzed between messages to determine for example how many messages have been posted with a question message type and how many responses to that question have been posted if any having a corresponding answer message type. Therefore the system can identify how many correlations have been formed between messages having complimentary message types based on the complimentary message rules to generate metrics on status and milestones with respect to these particular message types.

The type complement is included within the message information when a particular type of message type is selected by a stream member which contains a message type complement. For example a question message type has a message complement of an answer message type. Therefore if the stream member selects a question message type the system generates an additional field in the message information data structure for the message type complement. This field can include in selected embodiments a flag indicating whether or not a response has been generated that complements the message type created upon generation of the stream message i.e. answers the question . In select embodiments the system can determine that a message complement has been generated by traversing every message in the stream and selecting messages that have answer message types. The system could then determine if the answer messages posted to the stream are within a predetermined time or date of the originally posted question message. In select embodiments the system may traverse the information included within the internal links field of the originally posted question message to identify all messages that are linked with the originally posted message. In doing so the system immediately filters out a large amount of the messages on the stream. The system can then quickly traverse the internally linked messages based on message type and efficiently filter any messages that do not contain an answer type message indicator. Once the system identifies all answers within the internally linked messages the system can automatically flag the complement field that the question has been answered. Alternatively or in addition to the system may filter through all answer message type responses and only flag the type complement field to indicate the question message has been answered if an answer message type is found to have been generated within a predetermined or established by stream owner time with respect to the question message post time and or it was posted by a particular stream member. Whether or not a complement type field is to be generated at the time a message is generated can be determined by relationship rules of the particular message types as described further herein particularly with respect to .

The message stream provides an immediate and condensed yet complete view to be portrayed in a message such that stream members can easily understand the latest news in the stream and or come up to speed on the current state of affairs with respect to the stream or stream members. While a stream member can dig deeper into the details of the message the format of the message stream described herein reduces communication clutter by providing a quick identification of the contents of the message how the message is related to other messages other stream members or the content of the stream itself. Further requiring stream members to include the message type indicator helps to keep the messages focused and related to the particulars of what the stream was created for in the first place.

An example will be given for illustrative purposes. Since this is a stream message as opposed to a regular conventional message it is evident to the recipient which area or component the message is pertaining. For example this may be the medical health stream discussed above and therefore any team member of the stream reading a stream message knows that the stream message has content relating to medical health information. In addition since each stream member is admitted by invitation only although in other embodiments a stream may be open for members to join at will the recipient can assume that all messages and content within the stream should be somewhat relevant as opposed to junk mail. Accordingly merely by the creation of a message stream itself the amount of clutter in communications is reduced thereby increasing the communication signal to noise ratio. Further in the example medical health stream a message author may be a family member s doctor and the stream message content may state that the medical records of Child A have been forwarded to Hospital B. In addition a deliverable icon could be displayed as a message type indicator to indicate that an order or request has been filled. Thus in a mere few seconds of review the recipient or any other stream member can quickly determine that a medically related request has been completed.

An ending date and time can be completed for a particular project or assignment along with a work item which could be a name or number. Further if a stream member is merely posting information or a comment the ending date and time may represent a current time at which the stream message is being posted to the stream. In the center of the screen shot are a list of message type indicators and their associated icons. As described previously with respect to these message type indicators appear in the stream message and represent the type of message being posted so that a stream member can quickly grasp the meaning of the message or quickly peruse a plurality of messages. Referring back to a message area is also included which allows a stream member to enter the message content which is going to be posted to the stream. Since the screen shot includes several separate areas to identify various parameters of the message i.e. start and end date and time and work item and message type indicators the message area does not need to be lengthy although it could be as other stream members will likely be able to quickly grasp the meaning and relationship factors of the message. Further if the stream message is being generated in response to another stream message included in the message stream it will be linked to the other message as described previously which will further provide a stream member with an easy understanding of what the message relates to both in terms of content and what the content relates to with respect to the message stream.

Returning to the medical health stream and as an example for illustrative purposes only the medical health stream may include a plurality of stream messages relating to medical and health information of particular stream members. A first stream message may be a question from a stream owner member having a designated question icon as the message type indicator and may be an inquiry as to a delivery date of a particular medication at the Pharmacy the Pharmacy being a member of the stream . In this example the Pharmacy stream member may respond with a second message having a message type indicator indicating that there is an issue and having message content indicating that the Pharmacy has not yet received the prescription from the doctor. This response message from the Pharmacy will then be linked to the original message from the stream owner member as described above. A third stream message posted to the stream by the stream member doctor may include a stream message having a resolution message type indicator as well as a linked file containing the prescription for the Pharmacy. This message will then be linked to both the first and second messages and will also contain information indicating the previously posted issue has been resolved. This relationship value is important as described further herein when generating reports. Therefore the system can easily track messages in an efficient manner thereby allowing the stream owner member to easily track answers to his her inquiry about the medication. Also other messages that are not linked i.e. that were not in response to a previous message to the stream owner members inquiry with respect to the medication will still be readily accessible as they relate to the stream itself. Therefore it is very easy to track specific inquiries linked to a particular message or to view messages whether in bulk or filtered by message type indicator related to the medical health information stream itself.

Accordingly this type of communication paradigm provides an easy way for stream members to come up to speed on the particulars of what is going on in a message stream. Contrast this communication paradigm to email which may have some related messages back and forth in response to various inquires but they will not have any type of message indicators indicating their content and they are not easily filtered by stream type. In the example above the doctor may be a friend of the family and may have sent a variety of emails to the stream owner over a period of time. Therefore when reviewing email there will be an enormous amount of clutter that doesn t relate to any particular inquiry with respect to medication.

In selected embodiments and for the task mode a stream member may need a certain level of privileges or authority within the stream to be able to post a task or assign tasks to other stream members. Once a task is posted to the stream and if it is not specifically assigned to another stream member other stream members may respond that they will work on the task. Since the task will include a start and end time it will be easy to determine the duration of the task. Further a message type indicating an issue may in selected embodiments be automatically assigned to the post when a task is selected by a stream member. When a stream member posts a message indicating that he she is willing to take on the task that message will automatically be linked as described above to the task that was posted on the stream. Further any resolution messages that are posted at a later date will be linked to the original task message and will signal completion of the task. The resolution of a task and links between related messages can then be used to generate status reports as further described herein. Further any type of resolution linked to other messages can be used to automatically relate these messages in a report.

The message type indicators provide a variety of information with respect to the message as previously described herein and can include particular indicators such as information comment feedback concern question answer issue and other indicators that may be manually generated by a stream owner. As described previously in selected embodiments a stream member will be required to include a message type indicator as part of their stream posting thereby allowing other stream members to more easily track and filter messages within the stream. Certain message types may also have causal connections when they are linked between various messages. For example if a stream member posts a stream message having a question message type and a follow up message is posted in response to the stream message and linked to the stream message and having a message type of answer this information may be stored such that particular reports can be generated as described further herein. Similar applications are envisioned for issue and resolution message types .

The screen shot also includes a navigation window pane having various selections such as the user s inbox a listing of streams for the user and a link to each stream in which the user is a member. If a particular stream has sub streams included therein the sub streams can be accessed by clicking on the main stream at which point a hierarchy of streams will be displayed as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Further an options field is included which allows a stream member to mark a stream message as urgent or as an internal message only. Accordingly a question posted with an urgent option field would require prompt attention whereas stream members would know not to discuss or forward any information or messages having the options field of internal use only. An internal use only may prevent stream members from outside the organization from viewing the message and any attached content. External members is another example of an options field . Other navigation features include but are not limited to water cooler discussion search user option preferences generate timesheet status report budget status and change password.

Relationship rules between various message types drive various metrics within the stream such as generated reports indicating which messages i.e. questions issues etc have been resolved i.e. answered resolution etc . It also allows stream members to filter by closing message type and to determine a status of items within the stream. Filtering enables a user to focus on what is relevant and important at the moment i.e. filter out noise or find items of interest. For example if the stream is a project within an enterprise and various issue messages and question messages have been generated by stream members the stream owner can quickly determine which issues have been resolved and which questions have been answered while also determining which issues are outstanding and which questions still require answers.

Embodiments will be described for a wizard by which stream configuration templates can be formed with reference to . illustrates a screen shot for a new template setup. A selection can be made for a particular type of template such as a basic setup which has no category data fields. A second type of setup is an extended setup which has all category data fields. However some of the category data fields can be edited or deleted. A third type of setup is a custom setup in which the number and type of category data fields can be selected. A fourth type of setup is an existing custom template. However other categories of template setups can be established and are contemplated by embodiments described herein. After selecting a type of template for setup a value for the name of the template and a description for the template can be entered.

A template wizard can display the forms needed to define a particular stream message input form. After starting the wizard a stream properties option can be selected in a stream summary pane or by clicking a view link in a manage streams administration menu. Other embodiments can include a manage items forms option or a video tutorial. For any template selected message types should include types that best define the particular stream and identify the important status events or milestones in managing the forward progress towards accomplishment of the stream objectives. The message types provide an immediate visual identification of what is happening enables easy status reporting and is the basis for creating knowledge. The manage message types of the template wizard is used to add change and delete the stream s message types.

In addition automatic metrics can be generated such as the metrics in the table at the bottom of . The system can generate a chart having one or more of the following the number of messages having various message types i.e. question issue the number of responses to each message the people who responded to the messages the amount of closed messages i.e. questions answers issues resolved the number of messages to which no responses were provided and the average amount of time to respond or not respond. This information can be determined by the system based on the information included with each message such as date and time information message type information message link information and flag information for complementary message types that have been analyzed by the system and determined to have a correlation.

Embodiments described herein also provide a mechanism for stream members to rate the quality of answers resolutions deliverables and or completions that could factor into a user s contribution score. Gamification is a mechanism in which to drive engagement and team performance. Based upon generated metrics a recognition or award program can be established for a defined performance interval such as quarterly monthly weekly etc. Examples of rated member actions include but are not limited to the fastest member to respond to another member s question or issue marked as urgent the fastest member to respond to another member s question or issue not marked as urgent the member having the highest contribution value in each stream and the member having the highest contribution overall across all streams. A contribution value can be computed by totaling a member s score where example points might include two points for answering a question six points for resolving an issue five points for completing a task one point for asking a question two points for identifying an issue two bonus points for providing an answer or resolution within thirty minutes and one bonus point for completing a task before its due date. However several other metric combinations are contemplated by embodiments described herein. All values and thresholds are preferences so that the stream owner may adjust the importance of items in the individual stream and accommodate additional message types and relationships.

The status reports provide numerous advantages for a project manager or anyone that is coordinating or managing the accomplishment of the stream s activity. Status reports can replace most or all of status meetings. Project managers can easily create one or more streams for various projects and can include only stream members who are assigned to those particular projects. Based on message posting by the stream members the project manager can have the system generate a status report detailing the status of various assignments tasks or question metrics within the stream. Therefore the project manager can easily identify which items have been resolved and which items remain outstanding as well as which members of the team have been productive and which have been inefficient or ineffective.

Embodiments described herein can also be used to extract time entry information and to generate time sheets. In an embodiment a task start and task end times indicated in message entries can be used for automatic posting into a timesheet system. The system can also estimate starting and ending times based upon the message post time stamp. In one embodiment a user may post a message into Stream A and at some later time post a message at a specific time in Stream B. The system can assume that the message in Stream A is the end of the activity for Customer A and start accumulating time towards Customer B of Stream B since that is the next message posted by the user. An infrastructure embodiment may include a web service based architecture accessible through the Internet. A browser based web application user interface can be used. Message contents that can be used to generate the timesheet include but are not limited to a user ID a client ID a date and time stamp a state indicator a work item code pertaining to the message a message type code a public or private flag and a message text. Timesheet data can be filtered by one client ID multiple client IDs or all client IDs.

Timesheet data is based on tagged message feeds from one or more streams in which a stream is a sequence of micro blogged entries by members i.e. a work diary. Embodiments for entries such as a task or an assignment can include a time clock either manually initiated or automatically initiated. The time clock could stay open until the specific task or assignment is completed or until a different task or assignment is initiated. In addition the new task or assignment can initiate a new time clock. A further embodiment could include a restriction from having more than one time clock simultaneously active.

Embodiments described herein also provide dashboards that can be designed according to an area of interest for each user of a stream. illustrates a cybersecurity dashboard which includes multiple windows of graphed on going results from which much of the process metrics data is derived from the embodiments described herein. When continuous monitoring and other cybersecurity focused systems feed categorized messages into the system in combination with team member user categorized activity messages the multiple windows can monitor various aspects of interest such as a posture assessment overall vulnerability risk score unauthorized personnel connections devices and software anomalies and events impact and spam and phishing email. FIG. A illustrates just one example dashboard of one area of interest i.e. cybersecurity. However a user could design a multiple window dashboard for any particular area of interest from a military operation to a child day care facility. A dashboard provides instant visual information on the activities of a stream. illustrates a process flow using embodiments described herein to integrate human and machine activity situation status events milestones alerts and notifications as might be used with the cybersecurity dashboard illustrated in . Insight and process metrics for a work group environment is realized turning unstructured processes into collaborative processes.

Embodiments described herein provide a connection between a front end of collaboration technology and a backend infrastructure to provide stream related documents relevant content reporting and extended integration. illustrates a hardware network as used with embodiments described herein. The central hardware hub includes several servers and processors. The hub includes but is not limited to an inbox processor and one or more file servers that are connected to multiple load balanced web farm servers . The central hardware hub also includes multiple groups of primary with backup SQL servers a message sender connected to a bulk transactional email service a payment module connected to a payment processing center and a hybrid storage module connected to a customer location web services integration center via the Internet. The number and layout of servers and processors in are given for illustrative purposes only and the actual number and layout of servers and processors could vary there from.

It should be noted that while the descriptions provided above with respect to the graphical user interfaces of the system described herein illustrate various icons naming conventions and executable interfaces at various locations within the graphical user interface the system described herein is not limited to such implementations. For example the icons descriptions naming conventions and the like can be displayed in a variety of areas and in a variety of configurations that may either be predetermined or established by the stream owner.

A hardware description of a computer or server for implementing the system according to exemplary embodiments is described with reference to . In the server includes a CPU which performs the processes described above. The process data and instructions may be stored in memory . These processes and instructions may also be stored on a storage medium disk such as a hard drive HDD or portable storage medium or may be stored remotely. Further the claimed embodiments are not limited by the form of the computer readable media on which the instructions of the inventive process are stored. For example the instructions may be stored on CDs DVDs in FLASH memory RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM hard disk or any other information processing device with which the processor and or server communicates such as a server or computer.

Further the described embodiments may be provided as a utility application background daemon or component of an operating system or combination thereof executing in conjunction with CPU and an operating system such as Microsoft Windows 7 UNIX Solaris LINUX Apple MAC OS and other systems known to those skilled in the art.

CPU may be a Xenon or Core processor from Intel of America or an Opteron processor from AMD of America or may be other processor types that would be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. Alternatively the CPU may be implemented on an FPGA ASIC PLD or using discrete logic circuits as one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize. Further CPU may be implemented as multiple processors cooperatively working in parallel to perform the instructions of the inventive processes described above.

The server in also includes a network controller such as an Intel Ethernet PRO network interface card from Intel Corporation of America for interfacing with network . As can be appreciated the network can be a public network such as the Internet or a private network such as an LAN or WAN network or any combination thereof and can also include PSTN or ISDN sub networks. The network can also be wired such as an Ethernet network or can be wireless such as a cellular network including EDGE 3G and 4G wireless cellular systems. The wireless network can also be WiFi Bluetooth or any other wireless form of communication that is known.

The server further includes a display controller such as a NVIDIA GeForce GTX or Quadro graphics adaptor from NVIDIA Corporation of America for interfacing with display such as a Hewlett Packard HPL2445w LCD monitor. A general purpose I O interface interfaces with a keyboard and or mouse as well as a touch screen panel on or separate from display . General purpose I O interface also connects to a variety of peripherals including printers and scanners such as an OfficeJet or DeskJet from Hewlett Packard.

A sound controller is also provided in the processor and or server such as Sound Blaster X Fi Titanium from Creative to interface with speakers microphone thereby providing sounds and or music.

The general purpose storage controller connects the storage medium disk with communication bus which may be an ISA EISA VESA PCI or similar for interconnecting all of the components of the processor and or server. A description of the general features and functionality of the display keyboard and or mouse as well as the display controller storage controller network controller sound controller and general purpose I O interface is omitted herein for brevity as these features are known. One or more of the servers illustrated in may not have every feature illustrated in and other servers illustrated in may have additional features not illustrated in .

Once a stream has been generated at step S processing proceeds to step S at which point the stream of the system is able to receive stream information. Stream information can consist of a variety of information such as new members accepting an invite calendar updates receipt of stream messages and the like. This information can be received by stream members who are logged into the system or can be received from sensors or other external communications sources. For example the system may traverse a network to automatically bring in desired information or an Application Programming Interface API can be utilized for outside vendors to introduce information into the stream.

Once any type of information is received by the system with respect to a stream that has been generated at step S processing proceeds to step S at which point the system updates the stream. This can include a variety of processes such as updating the stream to include new messages tasks and or video meetings introduced to the stream by stream members or external sources in the previous step. The updating of the stream may also include updates made by the stream owner such as the inclusion of new message types categories input formats and the like as previously described herein. This process is repeated periodically at predetermined times or can be instantiated any time an update is provided to an existing stream. Further the updating of the stream at step S includes storing any new information received and updating any data structures such as additional information related to stream messages.

Once the stream has been updated with any received information processing proceeds to step S at which point the system analyzes all of the newly received stream information. Analysis is performed by the system for example to update any correlations between the information that has been received at step S and updated at step S. For example a new message received from a stream member may be analyzed to determine the message type and whether the message is correlated with any other messages as previously describe herein. This could include forming a correlation between messages based on their relation to each other based on a response and or based on message types have complimentary message types and satisfying the complimentary message rules as described previously herein. Any information derived from the stream analysis such as correlations between messages is updated and stored by the system. For example the data structure of certain messages as illustrated in may be updated to include additional internal links and type complement information .

Once information has been updated in the stream and analyzed by the system processing proceeds to allow for the generation of stream status updates at step S. Accordingly a stream member may request that the system generate metrics such as those described with respect to based on the latest updates and analysis performed by the system. Accordingly a stream member may request how many messages exist in the stream which have a question message type as well as which of these messages have correlated messages having an answer message type thereby satisfying complimentary message rules as described previously herein. The stream member could then easily discern the status of various inquires in the stream. If there are a variety of work categories then the user could further request that the system generate metrics related to question and answer message types with respect to a particular work item. As described previously herein a stream member could also request metrics with respect to turn around time for particular stream members to determine who effectively answered questions and how quickly.

Thus the system embodiments described herein provide for a communication collaboration tool that provides an impetus for users to communicate relevant information while also allowing for users to easily filter and quantify relevant information with little to no noise that occurs typically in other communication systems. Further advantages are prevalent from the descriptions and illustrations provided herein.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention as well as other claims. The disclosure including any readily discernible variants of the teachings herein define in part the scope of the foregoing claim terminology such that no inventive subject matter is dedicated to the public.

