---

title: Polarization hyperspectral/multispectral imager and method
abstract: A system for obtaining spectral images from polarized light comprising a polarization sensitive filter; the polarization sensitive filter being configured to receive light at at least one predetermined polarization orientation; and an achromatic waveplate operatively associated with the polarization sensitive filter; the achromatic waveplate being rotatable; whereby rotation of the achromatic waveplate enables light to enter the polarization sensitive spectral filter at at least two predetermined polarization orientations. A method comprising providing a polarization sensitive filter; the polarization sensitive filter being configured to receive light at at least one predetermined polarization orientation; providing an achromatic waveplate operatively associated with the polarization sensitive filter; the achromatic waveplate being rotatable; whereby rotation of the achromatic waveplate enables light to enter the polarization sensitive spectral filter at the at least two predetermined polarization orientations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507069&OS=09507069&RS=09507069
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09507069
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141219
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

The present invention relates to spectral imaging. In the past when it was desired to image more than one linear incident polarization using a polarization sensitive spectral filter such as an acousto optical tunable filter other devices in front of the acousto optical tunable filter were needed to do that. In the past one could use an electrically tuned liquid crystal variable retarder LCVR before the acousto optical tunable filter which enabled spectral images with both the vertical and horizontal incident polarizations of incident light. The retarder lets the vertically polarized light pass as it is but when the horizontally polarized light is incident it applies a phase shift or retardance to change the transmitted polarization to vertical as required by the acousto optical tunable filter.

However it is desirable to have an imager containing a polarization sensitive spectral filter detect the scene of interest with four different linear incident polarizations of light at each wavelength band contained in the broad spectral range. In some applications it is desirable to also detect all four linear plus two circular polarizations. Another approach is to use two LCVRs in tandem with the acousto optical tunable filter AOTF or liquid crystal tunable filter LCTF . These devices operate from 400 1800 nm only and the two LCVR approach performance is not consistent.

To describe the polarization behavior completely using measured intensities with vertical horizontal 45 and 135 polarizations i.e. I I Iand I respectively the Stokes polarization parameters S I I S I Iand S I Iare used. The parameter Scorresponds to the total intensity Sis the polarization difference between vertical and horizontal polarization and Sis the polarization difference between 45 and 135 polarization data at each pixel in the corresponding image. When circular polarization is also present a fourth Stokes parameter is defined as S I I where Iand Iare measured intensities of light with right circular polarization RCP or counterclockwise circular polarization and left circular polarization LCP or clockwise circular polarization respectively. The parameters Sand Sare used as measures to clearly show influence of the four linear polarizations in the images while Sshows the influence of the two circular polarizations. Measurement of image intensities with all six polarizations completely determines all four parameters S S Sand S. The Stokes parameters are useful in describing any polarization state of light unpolarized partially polarized and completely polarized.

This invention relates to an optical system and method that can be used to collect spectral images over a broad spectral region such as for example 400 800 nm with all four linear polarizations of incident light at each wavelength in the range using an achromatic half waveplate situated before a polarization sensitive spectral filter i.e. acousto optic tunable filter AOTF within a hyperspectral or multispectral imager.

A preferred embodiment system for obtaining spectral images from light having different polarization orientations comprises 

a polarization sensitive filter the polarization sensitive filter being configured to receiver light at at least one predetermined polarization orientation 

an achromatic waveplate operatively associated with the polarization sensitive filter the achromatic waveplate being rotatable to allow entry of light having at least two polarization orientations 

whereby rotation of the achromatic waveplate enables light to enter the polarization sensitive spectral filter at the at least two predetermined polarization orientations.

Optionally the polarization orientations comprise vertically polarized light horizontally polarized light light having a polarization orientation at 45 degrees and light having a polarization orientation of 135 degrees. Optionally the achromatic half waveplate is rotatably mounted within a housing. As an alternative the half waveplate is rotatably turnable to four combinations of positions the combinations of positions being when the fast axis is zero or 90 degrees to the vertical the fast axis is 45 degrees to the vertical the fast axis is 22.5 or 112.5 90 22.5 degrees to the vertical and the fast axis is 67.5 or 157.5 90 67.6 degrees to the vertical. Optionally the achromatic waveplate is rotatably driven by a motor.

a polarization sensitive spectral filter operatively connected to the wave plate the polarization sensitive filter being configured to receiver light at at least one predetermined polarization orientation 

whereby rotation of the wave plate enables polarized light of different orientations of polarized light to enter the polarization sensitive filter.

Optionally the polarization sensitive filter is an acousto optic tunable filter. Optionally the wave plate is rotatably oriented to receive vertically polarized light horizontally polarized light light polarized at 45 degrees and light polarized at 135 . The wave plate may be rotatable such that orientation of the fast axis is at zero or 90 degrees to the vertical axis for reception of vertically polarized light orientation of the fast axis is 45 to the vertical axis for reception of horizontally polarized light orientation of the fast axis is at 22.5 or 112.5 degrees for incident 135 polarization of light and orientation is the fast axis is at 67.5 or 157.5 degrees for incident 45 degree polarization of light. Optionally a quarterwave plate may be used to change circular polarized light to vertically oriented polarized light. Optionally the spectral range of the wave plate is between 400 800 nm. In addition or as an alternative the spectral range may be between 1000 1600 nm. The polarization sensitive filter may for example be an acousto optical tunable filter or in the alternative a liquid crystal tunable optical filter.

The present invention is also directed to a method of obtaining spectral images over a broad spectral region with light being inputted having a plurality of polarizations comprising 

providing a polarization sensitive filter the polarization sensitive filter being configured to receiver light at at least one predetermined polarization orientation 

providing an achromatic half waveplate operatively associated with the polarization sensitive filter the achromatic waveplate being rotatable.

whereby rotation of the achromatic waveplated enables light to enter the polarization sensitive spectral filter at the at least two predetermined polarization orientations.

The polarization sensitive filter may be an acousto optic filter or a liquid crystal tunable filter. The at least two predetermined polarization orientations may comprise vertically polarized light horizontally polarized light light having a polarization orientation at 45 degrees light having a polarization orientation of 135 degrees counter clockwise circularly polarized light and clockwise circularly polarized light. Optionally the achromatic half waveplate may be rotatably mounted within a housing and or driven by a motor.

Polarization imaging embodiments shown in can be incorporated in both telescopic and microscopic systems shown in .

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second lenses these terms are only used to distinguish one element or lens from another element or lens. Thus a first element or lens could be termed a second element or lens without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

The present invention includes a novel method to design and develop a compact field portable spectropolarimetric imager using an achromatic half waveplate with an acousto optic tunable filter AOTF with suitable optics and camera that can acquire each spectral image within the spectral region of operation with all four incident linear polarizations. The invention provides better target detection and identification by combining both spectral and polarization sensing into one sensor. This method is suitable for imagers operating from the ultraviolet to longwave infrared as both an achromatic half waveplate and an acousto optical tunable filter can be designed to cover these spectral regions. A preferred method involves insertion of a rotating achromatic half waveplate in front of the acousto optical tunable filter and the images with different polarization are obtained without any loss in intensity as it is based on applying a phase shift to change the orientation of the incident polarization. Such imagers can be designed for use in telescopes as well as microscopes. Such imagers can be used for both military and civilian applications including medicine agriculture food inspection astronomy planetary science quality control in pharmaceutical industry etc.

A waveplate shifts the phase of polarization components of the light wave. A typical waveplate may be formed from a birefringent crystal with a carefully chosen orientation and thickness cut into a plate configuration with the optic axis of the crystal being parallel to the surfaces of the plate. Two axes exist in the plane of the cut the ordinary axis with an index of refraction n and the extraordinary axis with index of refraction n . Light waves normally incident upon the plate have polarization components along the ordinary axis and travel through the crystal with a speed v c n while the polarization components along the extraordinary axis travel with a speed v c n resulting in a phase difference between the two components as they exit the crystal

As to the operation of acousto optical tunable filter when a radio frequency RF signal is applied to the transducer it produces sound waves with the same frequency as the applied RF which propagate inside the crystal setting up a three dimensional diffraction grating with the period given by the wavelength of acoustic wave in the crystal. At the opposite end of crystal prism from the transducer an acoustic absorber absorbs the sound waves. The acousto optical tunable filter operates based on a nonlinear interaction between the acoustic and incident light waves such that only one wavelength of light is diffracted at an angle based on the basic design parameters of the device. The diffracted wavelength is inversely proportional to the applied RF. In general for unpolarized incident light there are two diffracted waves corresponding to the ordinary and extraordinary polarizations in the birefringent crystal which are orthogonally polarized i.e. if one is vertically polarized then the other is horizontally polarized. When linearly polarized light is incident on the devices the diffracted light has linear polarization orthogonal to the incident polarization i.e. for vertically polarized incident light the diffracted beam is horizontally polarized. The acousto optical tunable filer is designed to operate at a single diffracted polarization by incorporating a correction for all wavelengths of operation such that the diffracted spot does not shift with wavelength. Most of the noncollinear acousto optical tunable filters AOTFs used in spectral imaging applications are designed for ordinary incident polarization and extraordinary diffracted polarization. When carrying out spectral imaging with such an acousto optical tunable filter AOTF only one incident polarization is imaged i.e. vertical. An acousto optical tunable filter is essentially a real time programmable filter whose operation can be described as follows. When white light is incident on the filter it passes only a selected number of narrow bands corresponding to the applied RF signals. The filter can be used to pass light with either a single wavelength or multiple wavelengths depending upon the number of applied RF signals. Either a collinear or a non collinear geometry can be used in designing an acousto optical tunable filter cell based on the symmetry properties of the anisotropic crystal under consideration. In a collinear filter the incident light is linearly polarized by a polarizer in front of the crystal before it enters the acousto optical tunable filter cell. As this polarized light passes through the cell it is diffracted in the same direction by a diffraction grating set up by the collinearly traveling sound wave. In a noncollinear filter the optical and acoustic waves travel in different directions as shown in . Owing to conservation of energy the frequency of the diffracted light is Doppler shifted but this frequency shift is insignificant and can be ignored. Based on conservation of momentum a tuning relationship can be established between the center wavelength of the filter and the applied RF signal. Note that the undiffracted beam in all wavelengths except is vertically polarized and is blocked from the camera by beam stop . The hyperspectral imager of based on an acousto optical tunable filter can collect images with a single incident polarization i.e. vertical.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes a single rotating achromatic half waveplate before a polarization sensitive spectral filter such as for example an acousto optical filter to obtain desired linear polarization required by the spectral filter for each of the four incident linear polarizations of light thus providing an ability to acquire four separate images at each wavelength band each corresponding to one of the four incident linear polarizations. Referring now to by installing an achromatic half waveplate before the acousto optical tunable filter and rotating its fast axis to four different positions appropriate phase retardation can be added to each of the four different incident polarizations i.e. vertical horizontal 45 and 135 such that the transmitted polarization from the waveplate which is also the incident polarization on the acousto optical tunable filter is always vertical. depicts the achromatic half waveplate with its fast axis vertical or horizontal such that light with vertical polarization passes to the acousto optical tunable filter AOTF which diffracts it. The diffracted beam extraordinary is horizontally polarized and is inversely proportional to applied radio frequency f applied via transducer and the diffracted beam passes to the camera as shown in . The undiffracted beam which comprises all wavelengths except for is vertically polarized and encounters beam stop . Without rotation when incident polarization is horizontal or 45 or 135 no diffracted beam is observed. After appropriate rotation of the rotating achromatic half wave plate spectral images can be obtained with all four linear incident polarizations of light vertical horizontal 45 or 135 coming from the scene being imaged. Since the waveplate is achromatic over a spectral region such imaging can be done at each wavelength band within this spectral region. Instead of obtaining a single hyperspectral image cube the preferred embodiment 40 enables the capture of four image hyperspectral cubes corresponding to each linear polarization vertical horizontal 45 or 135 i.e. at each one of the four different incident linear polarizations . Implementations of the spectropolarimetric imagers operate from 400 800 nm and 1000 1600 nm. The preferred embodiment shown in enables the imaging of a scene with four different linear polarizations at a number of wavelengths contained in a specific spectral region. In general the spectral tuning operation can be carried out by a grating prism a noncollinear acousto optical tunable filter a liquid crystal tunable filter LCTF etc. Grating and prism require rotation of the tuning element while an acousto optical tunable filter and LCTF are tuned electronically. An acousto optical tunable filter or liquid crystal tunable filter LCTF is a polarization sensitive device and a traditional grating and prism are not polarization sensitive

As substantiated by Mueller matrix calculations a half waveplate inserted before the acousto optical tunable filter in the path of the incident light can change each of the four incident polarization orientations vertical horizontal 45 and 135 to transmit only vertical polarization if the half waveplate is rotated such that its fast axis makes four selections a to d of angles a 0 or 90 b 45 c 67.5 or 157.5 or d 22.5 or 112.5 with the vertical direction as required by the acousto optical tunable filter as shown in the . Thus insertion of an achromatic half waveplate in a rotational stage before an acousto optical tunable filter AOTF will enable one to image the incident scene at each wavelength with each of the four incident polarizations by rotating the half waveplate at the desired angle. The preferred embodiment of the present invention requires only on additional optical element i.e. an achromatic half waveplate mounted in a rotary stage which can be operated electrically to change the orientation of the fast axis relative to the vertical direction rather quickly.

Commercial achromatic half waveplates in the spectral regions of interest may be utilized in accordance with the principles of the invention. Such half waveplates may be installed in at the input face of an acousto optical tunable filter imager or before the acousto optical tunable filter. Results may be achieved by rotation of an achromatic waveplate covering a 400 800 nm spectral region and a second achromatic waveplate covering a 1000 1600 nm region. The extended assembly may optionally include an acousto optical tunable filter lens and cameras for each imager. Insertion of an achromatic waveplate provides the capability to image all four incident polarizations at each wavelength band. One advantage of using a rotating half waveplate instead of a rotating linear polarizer is that the intensity of detected light would be not be reduced while it reduces to half for 45 and 135 polarization using the rotating linear polarizer and with it the intensity is zero for the horizontal polarization. While the half waveplate retarder applies a phase shift and changes the polarization orientation of the transmitted light but does not change intensity so there is no change in intensity of the detected light for each of the four incident polarizations.

By combining the acousto optical tunable filter with a spectrally tunable retarder to change the polarization of incident light on the imaging system polarization information from the scene or subject of interest can also be obtained.

Portable Acousto optical Spectrometers are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 208 123 filed Aug. 18 2005 which issued on May 19 2009 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 535 617 to Gupta et al which is hereby incorporated by reference as though fully rewritten herein. As disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 535 617 the acousto optical tunable filter AOTF is a birefringent crystal having an acoustic transducer bonded to one face. Broad band light radiation passing through a crystal can be diffracted into specific wavelengths by application of a radio frequency RF driving signal to the crystal transducer. Among the attractive features of acousto optical tunable filters are their small size light weight computer controlled operation large wavelength tuning range and reasonably high spectral resolution. Additionally their operation can be made ultra sensitive by using advanced signal processing algorithm. The acousto optical tunable filter device can be used as a part of a spectrometer or other optical instrument.

An example of a spectrometer using acousto optic AO crystal cells includes U.S. Pat. No. 5 120 961 herein incorporated by reference entitled High sensitivity acousto optic tunable filter spectrometer which teaches of using an acousto optical tunable filter AOTF device in a spectrometer. This spectrometer operates by using continuous wave RF excitation through the crystal wherein the spectrometer provides control and modulation of the RF source.

The advantage of the invention is that only one optical element needs to be inserted in the hyperspectral imager to image all four linear polarizations of incident light at each wavelength band. Such achromatic half waveplate are commercially available from the ultraviolet to the longwave infrared and they can be used with acousto optical tunable filters AOTFs operating in these wavelength regions to develop spectropolarimetric imagers or spectrometers. Other tunable spectral filters that can be used with achromatic half waveplate are liquid crystal tunable filters LCTF . Any other kind of tunable filter i.e. polarization sensitive gratings that has polarization dependence can also be used with a half waveplate either alone or in conjunction with the rotational mechanism of .

The prior art includes using a rotating polarizer in front of the tunable spectral filter and as mentioned earlier it cannot detect all four incident polarizations. Such a rotating polarizer is used with polarization insensitive spectrally tunable devices filter wheel gratings prisms Fabry Perot etalons Michelson interferometer Sagnac interferometer Wollaston prism etc.

Photo elastic modulators are also used with spectral filters to obtain spectropolarimetric images. Two of these are used and these are large devices and require electronic controllers.

Possible uses for the invention include target detection medical astronomy planetary research agriculture microscopy pharmaceutical quality control food inspection etc.

The present invention comprises inter alia use of a single achromatic half waveplate that is rotated to four different orientations of its fast axis. Present technology uses a rotating polarizer with a filter wheel grating or prism or Fabry Perot etalon or Michelson interferometer to obtain spectral images with all four incident polarizations. As discussed earlier a rotating polarizer can t be used with an acousto optical tunable filter AOTF or liquid crystal tunable filter LCTF to image all four incident polarizations without losing intensity and also not all polarizations can be detected.

Hyperspectral images with polarization signatures provide better target detection and identification. Spectral features arise due to the material properties of objects as a result of the emission reflection and absorption of light while the polarization features arise from the physical nature of the object surfaces and edges that influence the polarization properties of the reflected scattered or emitted light. By combining both polarization and hyperspectral detection capabilities in one single imager much better object detection and identification can be performed than by using either polarization or hyperspectral capability.

Applications of the preferred embodiment imager which include incorporation in a microscope design as well as a telescope in medicine astronomy pharmaceutical quality control agriculture etc. The concept of the invention can be used both in imaging and non imaging spectrometer designs to obtain linear polarization signatures.

Application of the preferred embodiment imager can be done from ultraviolet to longwave infrared wavelength ranges with corresponding achromatic half waveplate.

As used herein the terminology polarization means the action or process of affecting radiation such as light so that the vibrations of the wave assume a definite form and the state of the radiation is affected by this process the orientation of the polarization. Polarization orientation is an expression of the orientation of the lines of electric flux in an electromagnetic field EM field .

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

