---

title: Real-time predictive systems for intelligent energy monitoring and management of electrical power networks
abstract: A system for intelligent monitoring and management of an electrical system is disclosed. The system includes a data acquisition component, a power analytics server and a client terminal. The data acquisition component acquires real-time data output from the electrical system. The power analytics server is comprised of a real-time energy pricing engine, virtual system modeling engine, an analytics engine, a machine learning engine and a schematic user interface creator engine. The real-time energy pricing engine generates real-time utility power pricing data. The virtual system modeling engine generates predicted data output for the electrical system. The analytics engine monitors real-time data output and predicted data output of the electrical system. The machine learning engine stores acid processes patterns observed from the real-time data output and the predicted data output to forecast an aspect of the electrical system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031824&OS=09031824&RS=09031824
owner: Power Analytics Corporation
number: 09031824
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141104
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 938 324 filed May 16 2007. This application also claims priority as a Continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 121 552 filed May 15 2008. It also claims priority as a Continuation In Part under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 777 121 filed Jul. 12 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods for Real Time Advanced Visualization for Predicting the Health Reliability and Performance of an Electrical Power System which in turn claims priority as a Continuation In Part under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 734 709 filed Apr. 12 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods for Performing Automatic Real Time Harmonics Analyses for use in Real Time Power Analytics of an Electrical Power Distribution System and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 807 795 filed Jul. 19 2006.

The present invention relates generally to computer modeling and management of systems and more particularly to an energy management systems for monitoring and managing the cost quality and reliability of an electrical power system.

Computer models of complex systems enable improved system design development and implementation through techniques for off line simulation of system operation. That is system models can be created on computers and then operated in a virtual environment to assist in the determination of system design parameters. All manner of systems can be modeled designed and operated in this way including machinery factories electrical power and distribution systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems and the like. Such simulation techniques have resulted in reduced development costs and superior operation.

Design and production processes have benefited greatly from such computer simulation techniques and such techniques are relatively well developed but they have not been applied in real time e.g. for real time operational monitoring and management. In addition predictive failure analysis techniques do not generally use real time data that reflect actual system operation. Greater efforts at real time operational monitoring and management would provide more accurate and timely suggestions for operational decisions and such techniques applied to failure analysis would provide improved predictions of system problems before they occur.

That is an electrical network model that can age and synchronize itself in real time with the actual facility s operating conditions is critical to obtaining predictions that are reflective of the system s reliability availability health and performance in relation to the life cycle of the system. Static systems simply cannot adjust to the many daily changes to the electrical system that occur at a facility e.g. motors and pumps switching on or off changes to on site generation status changes to utility electrical feed . . . etc. nor can they age with the facility to accurately predict the required indices. Without a synchronization or aging ability reliability indices and predictions are of little value as they are not reflective of the actual operational status of the facility and may lead to false conclusions. With such improved techniques operational costs and risks can be greatly reduced.

For example mission critical electrical systems e.g. for data centers or nuclear power facilities must be designed to ensure that power is always available. Thus the systems must be as failure proof as possible and many layers of redundancy must be designed in to ensure that there is always a backup in case of a failure. It will be understood that such systems are highly complex a complexity made even greater as a result of the required redundancy. Computer design and modeling programs allow for the design of such systems by allowing a designer to model the system and simulate its operation. Thus the designer can ensure that the system will operate as intended before the facility is constructed.

As with all analytical tools predictive or otherwise the manner in which data and results are communicated to the user is often as important as the choice of analytical tool itself. Ideally the data and results are communicated in a fashion that is simple to understand while also painting a comprehensive and accurate picture for the user. For example graphical displays e.g. two dimensional and three dimensional views of the operational aspects of an electrical system greatly enhances the ability of a system operator owner and or executive to understand the health and predicted performance of the electrical system.

Moreover the unremitting rise in the costs of generating and or procuring energy necessitates pro actively and intelligently managing energy through technological solutions that allow energy to be treated as a business critical commodity that can be managed in real time while also extending the tools that electrical system network owners and operators need to observe comprehend and manage the cost quality and reliability of energy.

Currently no solution exists that provide a facility owner administrator and or operator with an instant view of the real time predicted and or historical energy consumption profile of an electrical system the cost of energy the cost of losses and the cost of running the electrical system inefficiently.

The system can include a data acquisition component a power analytics server and a client terminal. The data acquisition component can be communicatively connected to a sensor configured to acquire real time data output from the electrical system. The power analytics server can be communicatively connected to the data acquisition component and can be comprised of a real time energy pricing engine a virtual system modeling engine an analytics engine and a machine learning engine.

The real time energy pricing engine can be configured to generate real time utility pricing data. The virtual system modeling engine can be configured to generate predicted data output for the electrical system utilizing a virtual system model of the electrical system and the real time utility power pricing data. The analytics engine can be configured to monitor the real time data output and the predicted data output of the electrical system initiating a calibration and synchronization operation to update the virtual system model when a difference between the real time data output and the predicted data output exceeds a threshold. The machine learning engine can be configured to store and process patterns observed from the real time data output and the predicted data output then forecast an aspect of the electrical system.

The client terminal can be communicatively connected to the power analytics server and configured to display the schematic user interface.

These and other features aspects and embodiments are described below in the section entitled Detailed Description. 

Systems for intelligent monitoring and management of an electrical system are disclosed. It will be clear however that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

As used herein a system denotes a set of components real or abstract comprising a whole where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component within the whole. Examples of systems include machinery factories electrical systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems data centers aircraft carriers and the like. An electrical system can designate a power generation and or distribution system that is widely dispersed i.e. power generation transformers and or electrical distribution components distributed geographically throughout a large region or bounded within a particular location e.g. a power plant within a production facility a bounded geographic area on board a ship a factory a data center etc. .

A network application is any application that is stored on an application server connected to a network e.g. local area network wide area network etc. in accordance with any contemporary client server architecture model and can be accessed via the network. In this arrangement the network application programming interface API resides on the application server separate from the client machine. The client interface would typically be a web browser e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER FIREFOX NETSCAPE etc that is in communication with the network application server via a network connection e.g. HTTP HTTPS RSS etc. .

The sensors are configured to provide output values for system parameters that indicate the operational status and or health of the monitored system . For example in an electrical power generation system the current output or voltage readings for the various components that comprise the power generation system is indicative of the overall health and or operational condition of the system. In one embodiment the sensors are configured to also measure additional data that can affect system operation. For example for an electrical power distribution system the sensor output can include environmental information e.g. temperature humidity etc. which can impact electrical power demand and can also affect the operation and efficiency of the power distribution system itself

Continuing with in one embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in an analog format. For example electrical power sensor measurements e.g. voltage current etc. are sometimes conveyed in an analog format as the measurements may be continuous in both time and amplitude. In another embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in a digital format. For example the same electrical power sensor measurements may be taken in discrete time increments that are not continuous in time or amplitude. In still another embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in either an analog or digital format depending on the sampling requirements of the monitored system .

The sensors can be configured to capture output data at split second intervals to effectuate real time data capture. For example in one embodiment the sensors can be configured to generate hundreds of thousands of data readings per second. It should be appreciated however that the number of data output readings taken by a sensor may be set to any value as long as the operational limits of the sensor and the data processing capabilities of the data acquisition hub are not exceeded.

Still with each sensor is communicatively connected to the data acquisition hub via an analog or digital data connection . The data acquisition hub may be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connection is a hard wired physical data connection e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensor and the hub . In another embodiment the data connection is a wireless data connection. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub .

The data acquisition hub is configured to communicate real time data from the monitored system to the analytics server using a network connection . In one embodiment the network connection is a hardwired physical connection. For example the data acquisition hub may be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to a data server not shown that is communicatively connected via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling through the Internet and to the analytics server server. The analytics server being also communicatively connected with the Internet via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling . In another embodiment the network connection is a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi WLAN etc. . For example utilizing an 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format. In practice the network connection utilized is dependent upon the particular requirements of the monitored system .

Data acquisition hub can also be configured to supply warning and alarms signals as well as control signals to monitored system and or sensors and as described in more detail below.

As shown in in one embodiment the analytics server hosts an analytics engine virtual system modeling engine and several databases and . The virtual system modeling engine can e.g. be a computer modeling system such as described above. In this context however the modeling engine can be used to precisely model and mirror the actual electrical system. Analytics engine can be configured to generate predicted data for the monitored system and analyze difference between the predicted data and the real time data received from hub .

Decision engine can be configured to look for significant deviations between the predicted values and real time values as received from the comparison engine . If significant deviations are detected decision engine can also be configured to determine whether an alarm condition exists activate the alarm and communicate the alarm to Human Machine Interface HMI for display in real time via e.g. thin client . Decision engine can also be configured to perform root cause analysis for significant deviations in order to determine the interdependencies and identify the parent child failure relationships that may be occurring. In this manner parent alarm conditions are not drowned out by multiple children alarm conditions allowing the user operator to focus on the main problem at least at first.

Thus in one embodiment and alarm condition for the parent can be displayed via HMI along with an indication that processes and equipment dependent on the parent process or equipment are also in alarm condition. This also means that server can maintain a parent child logical relationship between processes and equipment comprising facility . Further the processes can be classified as critical essential non essential etc. Decision engine can also be configured to determine health and performance levels and indicate these levels for the various processes and equipment via HMI . All of which when combined with the analytic capabilities of analytics engine allows the operator to minimize the risk of catastrophic equipment failure by predicting future failures and providing prompt informative information concerning potential predicted failures before they occur. Avoiding catastrophic failures reduces risk and cost and maximizes facility performance and up time.

Simulation engine operates on complex logical models of facility . These models are continuously and automatically synchronized with the actual facility status based on the real time data provided by hub . In other words the models are updated based on current switch status breaker status e.g. open closed equipment on off status etc. Thus the models are automatically updated based on such status which allows simulation engine to produce predicted data based on the current facility status. This in turn allows accurate and meaningful comparisons of the real time data to the predicted data.

Example models that can be maintained and used by server include power flow models used to calculate expected kW kVAR power factor values etc. short circuit models used to calculate maximum and minimum available fault currents protection models used to determine proper protection schemes and ensure selective coordination of protective devices power quality models used to determine voltage and current distortions at any point in the network to name just a few. It will be understood that different models can be used depending on the system being modeled.

In certain embodiments hub is configured to supply equipment identification associated with the real time data. This identification can be cross referenced with identifications provided in the models.

In one embodiment if the comparison performed by comparison engine indicates that the differential between the real time sensor output value and the expected value exceeds a Defined Difference Tolerance DDT value i.e. the real time output values of the sensor output do not indicate an alarm condition but below an alarm condition i.e. alarm threshold value a calibration request is generated by the analytics engine . If the differential exceeds the alarm condition an alarm or notification message is generated by the analytics engine . If the differential is below the DTT value the analytics engine does nothing and continues to monitor the real time data and expected data.

In one embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent directly to the client i.e. user e.g. via HMI for display in real time on a web browser pop up message box e mail or equivalent on the client display panel. In another embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent to a wireless mobile device e.g. BLACKBERRY laptop pager etc. to be displayed for the user by way of a wireless router or equivalent device interfaced with the analytics server . In still another embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent to both the client display and the wireless mobile device. The alarm can be indicative of a need for a repair event or maintenance to be done on the monitored system. It should be noted however that calibration requests should not be allowed if an alarm condition exists to prevent the models form being calibrated to an abnormal state.

Once the calibration is generated by the analytics engine the various operating parameters or conditions of model s can be updated or adjusted to reflect the actual facility configuration. This can include but is not limited to modifying the predicted data output from the simulation engine adjusting the logic processing parameters utilized by the model s adding subtracting functional elements from model s etc. It should be understood that any operational parameter of models can be modified as long as the resulting modifications can be processed and registered by simulation engine .

Referring back to models can be stored in the virtual system model database . As noted a variety of conventional virtual model applications can be used for creating a virtual system model so that a wide variety of systems and system parameters can be modeled. For example in the context of an electrical power distribution system the virtual system model can include components for modeling reliability voltage stability and power flow. In addition models can include dynamic control logic that permits a user to configure the models by specifying control algorithms and logic blocks in addition to combinations and interconnections of generators governors relays breakers transmission line and the like. The voltage stability parameters can indicate capacity in terms of size supply and distribution and can indicate availability in terms of remaining capacity of the presently configured system. The power flow model can specify voltage frequency and power factor thus representing the health of the system.

All of models can be referred to as a virtual system model. Thus virtual system model database can be configured to store the virtual system model. A duplicate but synchronized copy of the virtual system model can be stored in a virtual simulation model database . This duplicate model can be used for what if simulations. In other words this model can be used to allow a system designer to make hypothetical changes to the facility and test the resulting effect without taking down the facility or costly and time consuming analysis. Such hypothetical can be used to learn failure patterns and signatures as well as to test proposed modifications upgrades additions etc. for the facility. The real time data as well as trending produced by analytics engine can be stored in a real time data acquisition database .

As discussed above the virtual system model is periodically calibrated and synchronized with real time sensor data outputs so that the virtual system model provides data output values that are consistent with the actual real time values received from the sensor output signals. Unlike conventional systems that use virtual system models primarily for system design and implementation purposes i.e. offline simulation and facility planning the virtual system models described herein are updated and calibrated with the real time system operational data to provide better predictive output values. A divergence between the real time sensor output values and the predicted output values generate either an alarm condition for the values in question and or a calibration request that is sent to the calibration engine .

Continuing with the analytics engine can be configured to implement pattern sequence recognition into a real time decision loop that e.g. is enabled by a new type of machine learning called associative memory or hierarchical temporal memory HTM which is a biological approach to learning and pattern recognition. Associative memory allows storage discovery and retrieval of learned associations between extremely large numbers of attributes in real time. At a basic level an associative memory stores information about how attributes and their respective features occur together. The predictive power of the associative memory technology comes from its ability to interpret and analyze these co occurrences and to produce various metrics. Associative memory is built through experiential learning in which each newly observed state is accumulated in the associative memory as a basis for interpreting future events. Thus by observing normal system operation over time and the normal predicted system operation over time the associative memory is able to learn normal patterns as a basis for identifying non normal behavior and appropriate responses and to associate patterns with particular outcomes contexts or responses. The analytics engine is also better able to understand component mean time to failure rates through observation and system availability characteristics. This technology in combination with the virtual system model can be characterized as a neocortical model of the system under management.

This approach also presents a novel way to digest and comprehend alarms in a manageable and coherent way. The neocortical model could assist in uncovering the patterns and sequencing of alarms to help pinpoint the location of the impending failure its context and even the cause. Typically responding to the alarms is done manually by experts who have gained familiarity with the system through years of experience. However at times the amount of information is so great that an individual cannot respond fast enough or does not have the necessary expertise. An intelligent system like the neocortical system that observes and recommends possible responses could improve the alarm management process by either supporting the existing operator or even managing the system autonomously.

Current simulation approaches for maintaining transient stability involve traditional numerical techniques and typically do not test all possible scenarios. The problem is further complicated as the numbers of components and pathways increase. Through the application of the neocortical model by observing simulations of circuits and by comparing them to actual system responses it may be possible to improve the simulation process thereby improving the overall design of future circuits.

The virtual system model database as well as databases and can be configured to store one or more virtual system models virtual simulation models and real time data values each customized to a particular system being monitored by the analytics server . Thus the analytics server can be utilized to monitor more than one system at a time. As depicted herein the databases and can be hosted on the analytics server and communicatively interfaced with the analytics engine . In other embodiments databases and can be hosted on a separate database server not shown that is communicatively connected to the analytics server in a manner that allows the virtual system modeling engine and analytics engine to access the databases as needed.

Therefore in one embodiment the client can modify the virtual system model stored on the virtual system model database by using a virtual system model development interface using well known modeling tools that are separate from the other network interfaces. For example dedicated software applications that run in conjunction with the network interface to allow a client to create or modify the virtual system models.

The client may utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters etc. and virtual system model of the system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly data from those various components of the monitored system can be displayed on a client display panel for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent.

As described above server is configured to synchronize the physical world with the virtual and report e.g. via visual real time display deviations between the two as well as system health alarm conditions predicted failures etc. This is illustrated with the aid of in which the synchronization of the physical world left side and virtual world right side is illustrated. In the physical world sensors produce real time data for the processes and equipment that make up facility . In the virtual world simulations of the virtual system model provide predicted values which are correlated and synchronized with the real time data . The real time data can then be compared to the predicted values so that differences can be detected. The significance of these differences can be determined to determine the health status of the system. The health stats can then be communicated to the processes and equipment e.g. via alarms and indicators as well as to thin client e.g. via web pages .

Each analytics server i.e. analytics server A analytics server B analytics server n is configured to monitor the sensor output data of its corresponding monitored system and feed that data to the central analytics server . Additionally each of the analytics servers can function as a proxy agent of the central analytics server during the modifying and or adjusting of the operating parameters of the system sensors they monitor. For example analytics server B is configured to be utilized as a proxy to modify the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with monitored system B .

Moreover the central analytics server which is communicatively connected to one or more analytics server s can be used to enhance the scalability. For example a central analytics server can be used to monitor multiple electrical power generation facilities i.e. monitored system A can be a power generation facility located in city A while monitored system B is a power generation facility located in city B on an electrical power grid. In this example the number of electrical power generation facilities that can be monitored by central analytics server is limited only by the data processing capacity of the central analytics server . The central analytics server can be configured to enable a client to modify and adjust the operational parameters of any the analytics servers communicatively connected to the central analytics server . Furthermore as discussed above each of the analytics servers are configured to serve as proxies for the central analytics server to enable a client to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with the systems that they respectively monitor. For example the client can use the central analytics server and vice versa to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of analytics server A and utilize the same to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with monitored system A . Additionally each of the analytics servers can be configured to allow a client to modify the virtual system model through a virtual system model development interface using well known modeling tools.

In one embodiment the central analytics server can function to monitor and control a monitored system when its corresponding analytics server is out of operation. For example central analytics server can take over the functionality of analytics server B when the server is out of operation. That is the central analytics server can monitor the data output from monitored system B and modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors that are interfaced with the system .

In one embodiment the network connection is established through a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. In another embodiment the network connection is established through a local area network LAN such as the company intranet. In a separate embodiment the network connection is a hardwired physical connection. For example the data acquisition hub may be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to a data server that is communicatively connected via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling through the Internet and to the analytics server server hosting the analytics engine . In another embodiment the network connection is a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi WLAN etc. . For example utilizing an 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format.

In certain embodiments regional analytics servers can be placed between local analytics servers . . . and central analytics server . Further in certain embodiments a disaster recovery site can be included at the central analytics server level.

The analytics server includes a variety of components. In the embodiment the analytics server is implemented in a Web based configuration so that the analytics server includes or communicates with a secure web server for communication with the sensor systems e.g. data acquisition units metering devices sensors etc. and external communication entities e.g. web browser thin client applications etc. . A variety of user views and functions are available to the client such as alarm reports Active X controls equipment views view editor tool custom user interface page and XML parser. It should be appreciated however that these are just examples of a few in a long list of views and functions that the analytics server can deliver to the external communications entities and are not meant to limit the types of views and functions available to the analytics server in any way.

The analytics server also includes an alarm engine and messaging engine for the aforementioned external communications. The alarm engine is configured to work in conjunction with the messaging engine to generate alarm or notification messages in the form of text messages e mails paging etc. in response to the alarm conditions previously described. The analytics server determines alarm conditions based on output data it receives from the various sensor systems through a communications connection e.g. wireless TCP IP Serial etc and simulated output data from a virtual system model of the monitored system processed by the analytics engines . In one embodiment the virtual system model is created by a user through interacting with an external communication entity by specifying the components that comprise the monitored system and by specifying relationships between the components of the monitored system. In another embodiment the virtual system model is automatically generated by the analytics engines as components of the monitored system are brought online and interfaced with the analytics server .

Continuing with a virtual system model database is communicatively connected with the analytics server and is configured to store one or more virtual system models each of which represents a particular monitored system. For example the analytics server can conceivably monitor multiple electrical power generation systems e.g. system A system B system C etc. spread across a wide geographic area e.g. City A City B City C etc. . Therefore the analytics server will utilize a different virtual system model for each of the electrical power generation systems that it monitors. Virtual simulation model database can be configured to store a synchronized duplicate copy of the virtual system model and real time data acquisition database can store the real time and trending data for the system s being monitored.

Thus in operation analytics server can receive real time data for various sensors i.e. components through data acquisition system . As can be seen analytics server can comprise various drivers configured to interface with the various types of sensors etc. comprising data acquisition system . This data represents the real time operational data for the various components. For example the data may indicate that a certain component is operating at a certain voltage level and drawing certain amount of current. This information can then be fed to a modeling engine to generate a virtual system model that is based on the actual real time operational data.

Analytics engine can be configured to compare predicted data based on the virtual system model with real time data received from data acquisition system and to identify any differences. In some instances analytics engine can be configured to identify these differences and then update i.e. calibrate the virtual system model for use in future comparisons. In this manner more accurate comparisons and warnings can be generated.

But in other instances the differences will indicate a failure or the potential for a failure. For example when a component begins to fail the operating parameters will begin to change. This change may be sudden or it may be a progressive change over time. Analytics engine can detect such changes and issue warnings that can allow the changes to be detected before a failure occurs. The analytic engine can be configured to generate warnings that can be communicated via interface .

For example a user can access information from server using thin client . For example reports can be generate and served to thin client via server . These reports can for example comprise schematic or symbolic illustrations of the system being monitored. Status information for each component can be illustrated or communicated for each component. This information can be numerical i.e. the voltage or current level. Or it can be symbolic i.e. green for normal red for failure or warning. In certain embodiments intermediate levels of failure can also be communicated i.e. yellow can be used to indicate operational conditions that project the potential for future failure. It should be noted that this information can be accessed in real time. Moreover via thin client the information can be accessed from anywhere and anytime.

Continuing with the Analytics Engine is communicatively interfaced with a HTM Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning Engine . The HTM Engine is configured to work in conjunction with the Analytics Engine and a virtual system model of the monitored system to make real time predictions i.e. forecasts about various operational aspects of the monitored system. The HTM Engine works by processing and storing patterns observed during the normal operation of the monitored system over time. These observations are provided in the form of real time data captured using a multitude of sensors that are imbedded within the monitored system. In one embodiment the virtual system model is also updated with the real time data such that the virtual system model ages along with the monitored system. Examples of a monitored system includes machinery factories electrical systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems data centers aircraft carriers and the like. It should be understood that the monitored system can be any combination of components whose operations can be monitored with conventional sensors and where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component within the combination.

Method moves on to operation where the virtual system model of the monitored system under management is updated in response to the real time data. This may include but is not limited to modifying the simulated data output from the virtual system model adjusting the logic processing parameters utilized by the virtual system modeling engine to simulate the operation of the monitored system adding subtracting functional elements of the virtual system model etc. It should be understood that any operational parameter of the virtual system modeling engine and or the virtual system model may be modified by the calibration engine as long as the resulting modifications can be processed and registered by the virtual system modeling engine.

Method proceeds on to operation where the simulated real time data indicative of the monitored system status is compared with a corresponding virtual system model created at the design stage. The design stage models which may be calibrated and updated based on real time monitored data are used as a basis for the predicted performance of the system. The real time monitored data can then provide the actual performance over time. By comparing the real time time data with the predicted performance information difference can be identified a tracked by e.g. the analytics engine . Analytics engines can then track trends determine alarm states etc. and generate a real time report of the system status in response to the comparison.

In other words the analytics can be used to analyze the comparison and real time data and determine if there is a problem that should be reported and what level the problem may be e.g. low priority high priority critical etc. The analytics can also be used to predict future failures and time to failure etc. In one embodiment reports can be displayed on a conventional web browser e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER FIREFOX NETSCAPE etc that is rendered on a standard personal computing PC device. In another embodiment the real time report can be rendered on a thin client computing device e.g. CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal application . In still another embodiment the report can be displayed on a wireless mobile device e.g. BLACKBERRY laptop pager etc. . For example in one embodiment the real time report can include such information as the differential in a particular power parameter i.e. current voltage etc. between the real time measurements and the virtual output data.

Method continues on to operation where the predicted i.e. simulated data for the monitored system is generated using a virtual system model of the monitored system. As discussed above a virtual system modeling engine utilizes dynamic control logic stored in the virtual system model to generate the predicted output data. The predicted data is supposed to be representative of data that should actually be generated and output from the monitored system.

Method proceeds to operation where a determination is made as to whether the difference between the real time data output and the predicted system data falls between a set value and an alarm condition value where if the difference falls between the set value and the alarm condition value a virtual system model calibration and a response can be generated. That is if the comparison indicates that the differential between the real time sensor output value and the corresponding virtual model data output value exceeds a Defined Difference Tolerance DDT value i.e. the real time output values of the sensor output do not indicate an alarm condition but below an alarm condition i.e. alarm threshold value a response can be generated by the analytics engine. In one embodiment if the differential exceeds the alarm condition an alarm or notification message is generated by the analytics engine . In another embodiment if the differential is below the DTT value the analytics engine does nothing and continues to monitor the real time data and virtual data. Generally speaking the comparison of the set value and alarm condition is indicative of the functionality of one or more components of the monitored system.

Method proceeds to operation where the predicted system output value for the virtual system model is updated with a real time output value for the monitored system. For example if sensors interfaced with the monitored system outputs a real time current value of A then the predicted system output value for the virtual system model is adjusted to reflect a predicted current value of A.

Method moves on to operation where a difference between the real time sensor value measurement from a sensor integrated with the monitored system and a predicted sensor value for the sensor is determined. As discussed above the analytics engine is configured to receive real time data from sensors interfaced with the monitored system via the data acquisition hub or alternatively directly from the sensors and virtual data from the virtual system modeling engine simulating the data output from a virtual system model of the monitored system. In one embodiment the values are in units of electrical power output i.e. current or voltage from an electrical power generation or transmission system. It should be appreciated however that the values can essentially be any unit type as long as the sensors can be configured to output data in those units or the analytics engine can convert the output data received from the sensors into the desired unit type before performing the comparison.

Method continues on to operation where the operating parameters of the virtual system model are adjusted to minimize the difference. This means that the logic parameters of the virtual system model that a virtual system modeling engine uses to simulate the data output from actual sensors interfaced with the monitored system are adjusted so that the difference between the real time data output and the simulated data output is minimized. Correspondingly this operation will update and adjust any virtual system model output parameters that are functions of the virtual system model sensor values. For example in a power distribution environment output parameters of power load or demand factor might be a function of multiple sensor data values. The operating parameters of the virtual system model that mimic the operation of the sensor will be adjusted to reflect the real time data received from those sensors. In one embodiment authorization from a system administrator is requested prior to the operating parameters of the virtual system model being adjusted. This is to ensure that the system administrator is aware of the changes that are being made to the virtual system model. In one embodiment after the completion of all the various calibration operations a report is generated to provide a summary of all the adjustments that have been made to the virtual system model.

As described above virtual system modeling engine can be configured to model various aspects of the system to produce predicted values for the operation of various components within monitored system . These predicted values can be compared to actual values being received via data acquisition hub . If the differences are greater than a certain threshold e.g. the DTT but not in an alarm condition then a calibration instruction can be generated. The calibration instruction can cause a calibration engine to update the virtual model being used by system modeling engine to reflect the new operating information.

It will be understood that as monitored system ages or more specifically the components comprising monitored system age then the operating parameters e.g. currents and voltages associated with those components will also change. Thus the process of calibrating the virtual model based on the actual operating information provides a mechanism by which the virtual model can be aged along with the monitored system so that the comparisons being generated by analytics engine are more meaningful.

At a high level this process can be illustrated with the aid of which is a flow chart illustrating an example method for updating the virtual model in accordance with one embodiment. In step data is collected from e.g. sensors and . For example the sensors can be configured to monitor protective devices within an electrical distribution system to determine and monitor the ability of the protective devices to withstand faults which is describe in more detail below.

In step the data from the various sensors can be processed by analytics engine in order to evaluate various parameters related to monitored system . In step simulation engine can be configured to generate predicted values for monitored system using a virtual model of the system that can be compared to the parameters generated by analytics engine in step . If there are differences between the actual values and the predicted values then the virtual model can be updated to ensure that the virtual model ages with the actual system .

It should be noted that as the monitored system ages various components can be repaired replaced or upgraded which can also create differences between the simulated and actual data that is not an alarm condition. Such activity can also lead to calibrations of the virtual model to ensure that the virtual model produces relevant predicted values. Thus not only can the virtual model be updated to reflect aging of monitored system but it can also be updated to reflect retrofits repairs etc.

As noted above in certain embodiments a logical model of a facilities electrical system a data acquisition system data acquisition hub and power system simulation engines modeling engine can be integrated with a logic and methods based approach to the adjustment of key database parameters within a virtual model of the electrical system to evaluate the ability of protective devices within the electrical distribution system to withstand faults and also effectively age the virtual system with the actual system.

Only through such a process can predictions on the withstand abilities of protective devices and the status security and health of an electrical system be accurately calculated. Accuracy is important as the predictions can be used to arrive at actionable mission critical or business critical conclusions that may lead to the re alignment of the electrical distribution system for optimized performance or security.

In step predicted values for the various components of monitored system can be generated. But it should be noted that these values are based on the current real time status of the monitored system. Real time sensor data can be received in step . This real time data can be used to monitor the status in step and it can also be compared with the predicted values in step . As noted above the difference between the predicted values and the real time data can also be determined in step .

Accordingly meaningful predicted values based on the actual condition of monitored system can be generated in steps to . These predicted values can then be used to determine if further action should be taken based on the comparison of step . For example if it is determined in step that the difference between the predicted values and the real time sensor data is less than or equal to a certain threshold e.g. DTT then no action can be taken e.g. an instruction not to perform calibration can be issued in step . Alternatively if it is determined in step that the real time data is actually indicative of an alarm situation e.g. is above an alarm threshold then a do not calibrate instruction can be generated in step and an alarm can be generated as described above. If the real time sensor data is not indicative of an alarm condition and the difference between the real time sensor data and the predicted values is greater than the threshold as determined in step then an initiate calibration command can be generated in step .

If an initiate calibration command is issued in step then a function call to calibration engine can be generated in step . The function call will cause calibration engine to update the virtual model in step based on the real time sensor data. A comparison between the real time data and predicted data can then be generated in step and the differences between the two computed. In step a user can be prompted as to whether or not the virtual model should in fact be updated. In other embodiments the update can be automatic and step can be skipped. In step the virtual model could be updated. For example the virtual model loads buses demand factor and or percent running information can be updated based on the information obtained in step . An initiate simulation instruction can then be generated in step which can cause new predicted values to be generated based on the update of virtual model.

In this manner the predicted values generated in step are not only updated to reflect the actual operational status of monitored system but they are also updated to reflect natural changes in monitored system such as aging. Accordingly realistic predicted values can be generated in step .

First in step a short circuit analysis can be performed for the protective device. Again the protective device can be any one of a variety of protective device types. For example the protective device can be a fuse or a switch or some type of circuit breaker. It will be understood that there are various types of circuit breakers including Low Voltage Circuit Breakers LVCBs High Voltage Circuit Breakers HVCBs Mid Voltage Circuit Breakers MVCBs Miniature Circuit Breakers MCBs Molded Case Circuit Breakers MCCBs Vacuum Circuit Breakers and Air Circuit Breakers to name just a few. Any one of these various types of protective devices can be monitored and evaluated using the processes illustrated with respect to .

For example for LVCBs or MCCBs the short circuit current symmetric I or asymmetric I and or the peak current I can be determined in step . For e.g. LVCBs that are not instantaneous trip circuit breakers the short circuit current at a delayed time I can be determined. For HVCBs a first cycle short circuit current I and or Ican be determined in step . For fuses or switches the short circuit current symmetric or asymmetric can be determined in step . And for MVCBs the short circuit current interrupting time can be calculated. These are just some examples of the types of short circuit analysis that can be performed in Step depending on the type of protective device being analyzed.

Once the short circuit analysis is performed in step various steps can be carried out in order to determine the bracing capability of the protective device. For example if the protective device is a fuse or switch then the steps on the left hand side of can be carried out. In this case the fuse rating can first be determined in step . In this case the fuse rating can be the current rating for the fuse. For certain fuses the X R can be calculated in step and the asymmetric short circuit current I for the fuse can be determined in step using equation 1. square root over 1 2 Eqn 1

In other implementations the inductants reactants X R ratio can be calculated in step and compared to a fuse test X R to determine if the calculated X R is greater than the fuse test X R. The calculated X R can be determined using the predicted values provided in step . Various standard tests X R values can be used for the fuse test X R values in step . For example standard test X R values for a LVCB can be as follows 

If the calculated X R is greater than the fuse test X R then in step equation 12 can be used to calculate an adjusted symmetrical short circuit current I .

If the calculated X R is not greater than the fuse test X R then Iadjsym can be set equal to Iin step . In step it can then be determined if the fuse rating step is greater than or equal to Ior I. If it is then it can determine in step that the protected device has passed and the percent rating can be calculated in step as follows 

If it is determined in step that the device rating is not greater than or equal to I then it can be determined that the device as failed in step . The percent rating can still be calculating in step .

For LVCBs it can first be determined whether they are fused in step . If it is determined that the LVCB is not fused then in step can be determined if the LVCB is an instantaneous trip LVCB. If it is determined that the LVCB is an instantaneous trip LVCB then in step the first cycle fault X R can be calculated and compared to a circuit breaker test X R see example values above to determine if the fault. X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R. If the fault X R is not greater than the circuit breaker test X R then in step it can be determined if the LVCB is peak rated. If it is peak rated then Ican be used in step below. If it is determined that the LVCB is not peak rated in step then Ican be set equal to Iin step . In step it can be determined if the device rating is greater or equal to I or to Ias appropriate for the LVCB.

If it is determined that the device rating is greater than or equal to I then it can be determined that the LVCB has passed in step . The percent rating can then be determined using the equations for Idefined above step in step . If it is determined that the device rating is not greater than or equal to I then it can be determined that the device has failed in step . The percent rating can still be calculated in step .

If the calculated. fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R as determined in step then it can be determined if the LVCB is peak rated in step . if the LVCB is not peak rated then the Ican be determined using equation 12. If the LVCB is peak rated then Ican be determined using equation 11. square root over 2 1.02 0.98 Eq 11

It can then be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Ior Ias appropriate. The pass fail determinations can then be made in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated in step .

If the LVCB is not an instantaneous trip LVCB as determined in step then a time delay calculation can be performed at step followed by calculation of the fault X R and a determination of whether the fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R. If it is not then Iadjsym can be set equal to Isym in step . If the calculated fault at X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R then Iadjsymdelay can be calculated in step using the following equation with e.g. a 0.5 second maximum delay 

It can then be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Ior I. The pass fail determinations can then be made in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated in step . If it is determined that the LVCB is fused in step then the fault X R can be calculated in step and compared to the circuit breaker test X R in order to determine if the calculated fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R. If it is greater then Ilcan be calculated in step using the following equation 

If the calculated fault X R is not greater than the circuit breaker test X R then Ican be set equal to Iin step . It can then be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Iin step . The pass fail determinations can then be carried out in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be determined in step .

In other embodiments an interrupting time calculation can be made in step . In such embodiments a fault X R can be calculated and then can be determined if the fault X R is greater than or equal to a circuit breaker test X R in step . For example the following circuit breaker test X R can be used 

If the fault X R is not greater than the circuit breaker test X R then Ican be set equal to Iin step if the calculated fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R then contact parting time for the circuit breaker can be determined in step and equation 15 can then be used to determine Iin step .

In step it can be determined whether the device rating is greater than or equal to I. The pass fail determinations can then be made in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated in step using the following 

For fuses switches a selection can be made as appropriate between use of the symmetrical rating or asymmetrical rating for the device. The Multiplying Factor MF for the device can then be calculated in step . The MF can then be used to determine Ior I. In step it can be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Ior I. Based on this determination it can be determined whether the device passed or failed in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be determined in step using the following rating 100 device rating or rating 100 device rating.

For LVCBs it can first be determined whether the device is fused in step . If the device is not fused then in step it can be determined whether the X R is known for the device if it is known then the LVF can be calculated for the device in step . It should be noted that the LVF can vary depending on whether the LVCB is an instantaneous trip device or not. If the X R is not known then it can be determined in step e.g. using the following 

If the device is fused then in step it can again be determined whether the X R is known. If it is known then the LVF can be calculated in step . If it is not known then the X R can be set equal to e.g. 4.9.

In step it can be determined if the LVF is less than 1 and if it is then the LVF can be set equal to 1. In step can be determined using the following 

In step it can be determined whether the device s symmetrical rating is greater than or equal to I and it can be determined based on this evaluation whether the device passed or failed in steps and respectively. The percent rating can then be determined in step using the following rating 100 device rating 

If all the contributions are remote then in step the remote MF MFr can be calculated and Ican be calculated using the following 

If the contributions are from NACD then the NACD MFr MF and AMF can be calculated. If AMF is less than 1 then AMF can be set equal to Ican then be calculated. using the following 1 

In step the 3 phase device duty cycle can be calculated and then it can be determined in step whether the device rating is greater than or equal to I. Whether the device passed or failed can then be determined in steps and respectively. The percent rating can be determined in step using the following rating 100 3device rating.

In other embodiments it can be determined in step whether the user has selected a fixed MF. If so then in certain embodiments the peak duty crest can be determined in step and MFp can be set equal to 2.7 in step . If a fixed MF has not been selected then the peak duty crest can be calculated in step and MFp can be calculated in step . In step the MFp can be used to calculate the following 

In step it can be determined if the device peak rating crest is greater than or equal to I. It can then be determined whether the device passed or failed in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated as follows rating 100 device peak crest rating.

In other embodiments if a fixed MF is selected then a momentary duty cycle C L can be determined in step and MFm can be set equal to e.g. 1.6. If a fixed MF has not been selected then in step MFm can be calculated. MFm can then be used to determine the following 

It can then be determined in step whether the device C L rms rating is greater than or equal to I. Whether the device passed or failed can then be determined in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated as follows rating 100 device rms rating.

Thus the above methods provide a mean to determine the withstand capability of various protective devices under various conditions and using various standards using an aged up to date virtual model of the system being monitored.

The influx of massive sensory data e.g. provided via sensors and intelligent filtration of this dense stream of data into manageable and easily understandable knowledge. For example as mentioned it is important to be able to assess the real time ability of the power system to provide sufficient generation to satisfy the system load requirements ents and to move the generated energy through the system to the load points. Conventional systems do not make use of an on line real time system snap shot captured by a real time data acquisition platform to perform real time system availability evaluation.

In step a list of possible outage conditions and contingencies can be evaluated including loss of utility power supply generators UPS and or distribution lines and infrastructure. In step a power flow analysis for monitored system under the various contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include the resulting failure rates repair rates cost of interruption or downtime versus the required system availability etc. In step it can be determined if the system is operating in a deficient state when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then is step the impact on the system load interruptions costs failure duration system unavailability etc. can all be evaluated.

After the evaluation of step or if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then it can be determined if further contingencies need to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated. If no more contingencies are to be evaluated then a report can be generated in step . The report can include a system summary total and detailed reliability indices system availability etc. The report can also identify system bottlenecks are potential problem areas.

The reliability indices can be based on the results of credible system contingencies involving both generation and transmission outages. The reliability indices can include load point reliability indices branch reliability indices and system reliability indices. For example various load bus reliability indices can be determined such as probability and frequency of failure expected load curtailed expected energy not supplied frequency of voltage violations reactive power required and expected customer outage cost. The load point indices can be evaluated for the major load buses in the system and can be used in system design for comparing alternate system configurations and modifications.

Overall system reliability indices can include power interruption index power supply average MW curtailment power supply disturbance index power energy curtailment index severity index and system availability. For example the individual load point indices can be aggregated to produce a set of system indices. These indices are indicators of the overall adequacy of the composite system to meet the total system load demand and energy requirements and can be extremely useful for the system planner and management allowing more informed decisions to be made both in planning and in managing the system.

The various analysis and techniques can be broadly classified as being either Monte Carlo simulation or Contingency Enumeration. The process can also use AC DC and fast linear network power flow solutions techniques and can support multiple contingency modeling multiple load levels automatic or user selected contingency enumeration use a variety of remedial actions and provides sophisticated report generation.

The analysis of step can include adequacy analysis of the power system being monitored based on a prescribed set of criteria by which the system must be judged as being in the success or failed state. The system is considered to be in the failed state if the service at load buses is interrupted or its quality becomes unacceptable i.e. if there are capacity deficiency overloads and or under over voltages

Various load models can be used in the process of including multi step load duration curve curtailable and Firm and Customer Outage Cost models. Additionally various remedial actions can be proscribed or even initiated including MW and MVAR generation control generator bus voltage control phase shifter adjustment MW generation rescheduling and load curtailment interruptible and firm .

In other embodiments the effect of other variables such as the weather and human error can also be evaluated in conjunction with the process of and indices can be associated with these factors. For example is a flow chart illustrating an example process for analyzing the rel iability of an electrical power distribution and transmission system that takes weather information into account in accordance with one embodiment. Thus in step real time weather data can be received e.g. via a data feed such as an XML feed from National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration NOAA . In step this data can be converted into reliability data that can be used in step .

It should also be noted that National Fire Protection Association NFPA and the Occupational Safety and Health Association OSHA have mandated that facilities comply with proper workplace safety standards and conduct Arc Flash studies in order to determine the incident energy protection boundaries and PPE levels needed to be worn by technicians. Unfortunately conventional approaches systems for performing such studies do not provide a reliable means for the real time prediction of the potential energy released in calories per centimeter squared for an arc flash event. Moreover no real time system exists that can predict the required personal protective equipment PPE required to safely perform repairs as required by NFPA 70E and IEEE 1584.

When a fault in the system being monitored contains an arc the heat released can damage equipment and cause personal injury. It is the latter concern that brought about the development of the heat exposure programs referred to above. The power dissipated in the arc radiates to the surrounding surfaces. The further away from the arc the surface is the less the energy is received per unit area.

As noted above conventional approaches are based on highly specialized static simulation models that are rigid and non reflective of the facilities operational status at the time a technician may be needed to conduct repairs on electrical equipment. But the PPE level required for the repair or the safe protection boundary may change based on the actual operational status of the facility and alignment of the power distribution system at the time repairs are needed. Therefore a static model does not provide the real time analysis that can be critical for accurate PPE level determination. This is because static systems cannot adjust to the many daily changes to the electrical system that occur at a facility e.g. motors and pumps may be on or off on site generation status may have changed by having diesel generators on line utility electrical feed may also change etc. nor can they age with the facility to accurately predict the required PPE levels.

Accordingly existing systems rely on exhaustive studies to be performed off line by a power system engineer or a design professional specialist. Often the specialist must manually modify a simulation model on that it is reflective of the proposed facility operating condition and then conduct a static simulation or a series of static simulations in order to come up with recommended safe working distances energy calculations and PPE levels. But such a process is not timely accurate nor efficient and as noted above can be quite costly.

Using the systems and methods described herein a logical model of a facility electrical system can be integrated into a real time environment with a robust AC Arc Flash simulation engine system modeling engine a data acquisition system data acquisition hub and an automatic feedback system calibration engine that continuously synchronizes and calibrates the logical model to the actual operational conditions of the electrical system. The ability to re align the simulation model in real time so that it minors the real facility operating conditions coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the model as the real facility ages as described above provides a desirable approach to predicting PPE levels and safe working conditions at the exact time the repairs are intended to be performed. Accordingly facility management can provide real time compliance with e.g. NFPA 70E and IEEE 1584 standards and requirements.

The ratio of arc current to bolted current can then be used in step to determine the arcing current in a specific protective device such as a circuit breaker or fuse. A coordinated time current curve analysis can be performed for the protective device in step . In step the arcing current in the protective device and the time current analysis can be used to determine an associated fault clearing time and in step a corresponding arc energy can be determined based on e.g. IEEE 1584 equations applied to the fault clearing time and arcing current.

In step the 100 arcing current can be calculated and for systems operating at less than 1 kV the 85 arcing current can also be calculated. In step the fault clearing time in the protective device can be determined at the 85 arcing current level. In step e.g. IEEE 1584 equations can be applied to the fault clearing time determined in step and the arcing current to determine the 85 arc energy level and in step the 100 arcing current can be compared with the 85 arcing current with the higher of the two being selected. IEEE 1584 equations for example can then be applied to the selected arcing current in step and the PPE level and boundary distance can be determined in step . In step these values can be output e.g. in the form of a display or report.

In other embodiments using the same or a similar procedure as illustrated in the following evaluations can be made in real time and based on an accurat e.g. aged model of the system 

With the insight gained through the above methods appropriate protective measures clothing and procedures can be mobilized to minimize the potential for injury should an arc flash incident occur. Facility owners and operators can efficiently implement a real time safety management system that is in compliance with NFPA 70E and IEEE 1584 guidelines.

In step the dynamic time domain model data can be updated to re align the virtual system model in real time so that it mirrors the real operating conditions of the facility. The updates to the domain model data coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the virtual system model of the facility as it ages i.e. real time condition of the facility as described above provides a desirable approach to predicting the operational stability of the electrical power system operating under contingency situations. That is these updates account for the natural aging effects of hardware that comprise the total electrical power system by continuously synchronizing and calibrating both the control logic used in the simulation and the actual operating conditions of the electrical system.

The domain model data includes data that is reflective of both the static and non static rotating components of the system. Static components are those components that are assumed to display no changes during the time in which the transient contingency event takes place. Typical time frames for disturbance in these types of elements range from a few cycles of the operating frequency of the system up to a few seconds. Examples of static components in an electrical system include but are not limited to transformers cables overhead lines reactors static capacitors etc. Non static rotating components encompass synchronous machines including their associated controls exciters governors etc. induction machines compensators motor operated valves MOV turbines static var compensators fault isolation units FfU static automatic bus transfer SABT units etc. These various types of non static components can be simulated using various techniques. For example 

In one embodiment the time domain model data includes built in dynamic model data for exciters governors transformers relays breakers motors and power system stabilizers PSS offered by a variety of manufactures. For example dynamic model data for the electrical power system may be OEM manufacturer supplied control logic for electrical equipment such as automatic voltage regulators AVR governors under load tap changing transformers relays breakers motors etc. In another embodiment in order to cope with recent advances in power electronic and digital controllers the time domain model data includes user defined dynamic modeling data that is created by an authorized system administrator in accordance with user defined control logic models. The user defined models interacts with the virtual system model of the electrical power system through Interface Variables that are created out of the user defined control logic models. For example to build a user defined excitation model the controls requires that generator terminal voltage to be measured and compared with a reference quantity voltage set point . Based on the specific control logic of the excitation and AVR the model would then compute the predicted generator field voltage and return that value back to the application. The user defined modeling supports a large number of pre defined control blocks functions that are used to assemble the required control systems and put them into action in a real time environment for assessing the strength and security of the power system. In still another embodiment the time domain model data includes both built in dynamic model data and user defined model data.

Moving on to step a contingency event can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the operational stability of the electrical power system can be assessed under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . In one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a system administrator in accordance with user requirements. In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with control logic that is dynamically adaptive to past observations of the electrical power system. That is the control logic learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the electrical power system operating under various conditions.

Some examples of contingency events include but are not limited to Application removal of three phase fault.

In step a transient stability analysis of the electrical power system operating under the various chosen contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include identification of system weaknesses and insecure contingency conditions. That is the analysis can predict forecast the systems ability to sustain power demand maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve operate safely with minimum operating cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and provide an acceptably high level of power quality while being subjected to various contingency events. The results of the analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine during step to support incremental learning about the operational characteristics of the system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into the associative memory engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the logical realities of the power system. In certain embodiments engine can also act as a pattern recognition engine or a Hierarchical Temporal Memory HTM engine. Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and give recommendations.

In step it can be determined if the system is operating in a deficient state when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then in step a report is generated providing a summary of the operational stability of the system. The summary may include general predictions about the total security and stability of the system and or detailed predictions about each component that makes up the system.

Alternatively if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then step can determine if further contingencies needs to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated.

The results of real time simulations performed in accordance with can be communicated in step via a report such as a print out or display of the status. In addition the information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrated the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the security or insecurity of a component subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques some of which are describe below in step .

The process of can be applied to a number of needs including but not limited to predicting system stability due to Motor starting and motor sequencing an example is the assessment of adequacy of a power system in emergency start up of auxiliaries evaluation of the protections such as under frequency and under voltage load shedding schemes example of this is allocation of required load shedding for a potential loss of a power generation source determination of critical clearing time of circuit breakers to maintain stability and determination of the sequence of protective device operations and interactions.

Traditionally transient stability has been the main focus of power system professionals. However with the increased demand for electrical energy and the regulatory hurdles blocking the expansion of existing power systems the occurrences of voltage instability has become increasingly frequent and therefore has gained increased attention from power system planners and power system facility operators. The ability to learn understand and make predictions about available power system capacity and system susceptibility to voltage instability in real time would be beneficial in generating power trends for forecasting purposes.

In step the voltage stability modeling data for the components comprising the electrical system can be updated to re align the virtual system model in real time so that it minors the real operating conditions of the facility. These updates to the voltage stability modeling data coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the virtual system model of the facility as it ages real time condition of the facility as described above provides a desirable approach to predicting occurrences of voltage instability or power capacity in the electrical power system when operating under contingency situations. That is these updates account for the natural aging effects of hardware that comprise the total electrical power system by continuously synchronizing and calibrating both the control logic used in the simulation and the actual operating conditions of the electrical system.

The voltage stability modeling data includes system data that has direct influence on the electrical system s ability to maintain acceptable voltage profiles when the system is subjected to various contingencies such as when system topology changes or when the system encounters power load changes. Some examples of voltage stability modeling data are load scaling data generation scaling data load growth factor data load growth increment data etc.

In one embodiment the voltage stability modeling data includes built in data supplied by an OEM manufacturer of the components that comprise the electrical equipment. In another embodiment in order to cope with recent advances power system controls the voltage stability data includes user defined data that is created by an authorized system administrator in accordance with user defined control logic models. The user defined models interact with the virtual system model of the electrical power system through Interface Variables that are created out of the user defined control logic models. In still another embodiment the voltage stability modeling data includes a combination of both built in model data and user defined model data.

Moving on to step a contingency event can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the voltage stability of the electrical power system can be assessed under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . In one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a system administrator in accordance with user requirements. In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with control logic that is dynamically adaptive to past observations of the electrical power system. That is the control logic learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the electrical power system operating under various conditions. Some examples of contingency events include but are not limited to loss of utility supply to the electrical system loss of available power generation sources system load changes fluctuations loss of distribution infrastructure associated with the electrical system etc.

In step a voltage stability analysis of the electrical power system operating under the various chosen contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include a prediction forecast of the total system power capacity available system power capacity and utilized system power capacity of the electrical system of the electrical system under various contingencies. That is the analysis can predict forecast the electrical system s ability to maintain acceptable voltage profiles during load changes and when the overall system topology undergoes changes. The results of the analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine during step to support incremental learning about the power capacity characteristics of the system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into the associative memory engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the voltage stability of the electrical system in step . Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and give recommendations.

In step it can be determined if there is voltage instability in the system when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then in step a report is generated providing a summary of the specifics and source of the voltage instability. The summary may include general predictions about the voltage stability of the overall system and or detailed predictions about each component that makes up the system.

Alternatively if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then step can determine if further contingencies needs to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated.

The results of real time simulations performed in accordance with can be communicated in step via a report such as a print out or display of the status. In addition the information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrated the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the capacity of a subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques some of which are describe below in step .

The systems and methods described above can also be used to provide reports step on e.g. total system electrical capacity total system capacity remaining total capacity at all busbars and or processes total capacity remaining at all busbars and or processes total system loading loading at each busbar and or process etc.

Thus the process of can receive input data related to power flow e.g. network connectivity loads generations cables transformers impedances power security contingencies and capacity assessment model data and can produce as outputs data related to the predicted and designed total system capacity available capacity and present capacity. This information can be used to make more informed decisions with respect to management of the facility.

The inherent risks to safety and the operational life of components comprising the electrical system that harmonic distortions poses to electrical systems have led to the inclusion of harmonic distortion analysis as part of traditional power analysis. Metering and sensor packages are currently available to monitor harmonic distortions within an electrical system. However it is not feasible to fully sensor out an electrical system at all possible locations due to cost and the physical accessibility limitations in certain parts of the system. Therefore there is a need for techniques that predict through real time simulation the sources of harmonic distortions within an electrical system the impacts that harmonic distortions have or may have and what steps i.e. harmonics filtering may be taken to minimize or eliminate harmonics from the system.

Currently there are no reliable techniques for predicting in real time the potential for periodic non sinusoidal waveforms i.e. harmonic distortions to occur at any location within an electrical system powered with sinusoidal voltage. In addition existing techniques do not take into consideration the operating conditions and topology of the electrical system or utilizes a virtual system model of the system that ages with the actual facility or its current condition. Moreover no existing technique combines real time power quality meter readings and predicted power quality readings for use with a pattern recognition system such as an associative memory machine learning system to predict harmonic distortions in a system due to changes in topology or poor operational conditions within an electrical system.

The process described herein provides a harmonics analysis solution that uses a real time snap shot captured by a data acquisition system to perform a real time system power quality evaluation at all locations regardless of power quality metering density. This process integrates in real time a logical simulation model i.e. virtual system model of the electrical system a data acquisition system and power system simulation engines with a logic based approach to synchronize the logical simulation model with conditions at the real electrical system to effectively age the simulation model along with the actual electrical system. Through this approach predictions about harmonic distortions in an electrical system may be accurately calculated in real time. Condensed this process works by simulating harmonic distortions in an electrical system through subjecting a real time updated virtual system model of the system to one or more simulated contingency situations.

In step the harmonic frequency modeling data for the components comprising the electrical system can be updated to re align the virtual system model in real time so that it mirrors the real operating conditions of the facility. These updates to the harmonic frequency modeling data coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the virtual system model of the facility as it ages i.e. real time condition of the facility as described above provides a desirable approach to predicting occurrences of harmonic distortions within the electrical power system when operating under contingency situations. That is these updates account for the natural aging effects of hardware that comprise the total electrical power system by continuously synchronizing and calibrating both the control logic used in the simulation and the actual operating conditions of the electrical system.

Harmonic frequency modeling data has direct influence over how harmonic distortions are simulated during a harmonics analysis. Examples of data that is included with the harmonic frequency modeling data include IEEE 519 and or Mil 1399 compliant system simulation data generator cable motor skin effect data transformer phase shifting data generator impedance data induction motor impedance data etc.

Moving on to step a contingency event can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the electrical system can be assessed for harmonic distortions under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . In one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a system administrator in accordance with user requirements. In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with control logic that is dynamically adaptive to past observations of the electrical power system. That is the control logic learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the electrical power system operating under various conditions. Some examples of contingency events include but are not limited to additions bringing online and changes of equipment that effectuate a non linear load on an electrical power system e.g. as rectifiers arc furnaces AC DC drives variable frequency drives diode capacitor input power supplies uninterruptible power supplies etc. or other equipment that draws power in short intermittent pulses from the electrical power system.

Continuing with in step a harmonic distortion analysis of the electrical power system operating under the various chosen contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include predictions forecasts of different types of harmonic distortion data at various points within the system. Harmonic distortion data may include but are not limited to 

That is the harmonica analysis can predict forecast various indicators harmonics data of harmonic distortions occurring within the electrical system as it is being subjected to various contingency situations. The results of the analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine during step to support incremental learning about the harmonic distortion characteristics of the system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into the associative memory engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the harmonic distortion profile of the electrical system in step . Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and give recommendations.

In step it can be determined if there are harmonic distortions within the system when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then in step a report is generated providing a summary of specifics regarding the characteristics and sources of the harmonic distortions. The summary may include forecasts about the different types of harmonic distortion data e.g. Wave shape Distortions Oscillations data Parallel and Series Resonant Condition data etc. generated at various points throughout the system. Additionally through these forecasts the associative memory engine can make predictions about the natural oscillation response s of the facility and compare those predictions with the harmonic components of the non linear loads that are fed or will be fed from the system as indicated form the data acquisition system and power quality meters. This will give an indication of what harmonic frequencies that the potential resonant conditions lie at and provide facility operators with the ability to effectively employ a variety of harmonic mitigation techniques e.g. addition of harmonic filter banks etc. .

Alternatively if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then step can determine if further contingencies needs to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated.

The results of real time simulations performed in accordance with can be communicated in step via a report such as a print out or display of the status. In addition the information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrated the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the harmonic status of subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques some of which are describe below in step .

Thus the process of can receive input data related to power flow e.g. network connectivity loads generations cables transformers impedances etc. power security contingencies and can produce as outputs data related to Point Specific Power Quality Indices Branch Total Current Harmonic Distortion Indices Bus and Node Total Voltage Harmonic Distortion Indices Frequency Scan Indices for Positive Negative and Zero Sequences Filter s Frequency Angle Response Filter s Frequency Impedance Response and Voltage and Current values over each filter elements r xl xc .

The HTM Machine Learning Engine is configured to store and process patterns observed from real time data fed from the hub and predicted data output from a real time virtual system model of the monitored system. These patterns can later be used by the HTM Engine to make real time predictions forecasts about the various operational aspects of the system.

The data acquisition hub is communicatively connected via data connections to a plurality of sensors that are embedded throughout a monitored system . The data acquisition hub may be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connections are hard wired physical data connections e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensors and the hub . In another embodiment the data connections are wireless data connections. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub .

Examples of a monitored system includes machinery factories electrical systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems data centers aircraft carriers and the like. It should be understood that the monitored system can be any combination of components whose operations can be monitored with conventional sensors and where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component within the combination.

Continuing with the client is typically a conventional thin client or thick client computing device that may utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. power analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters etc. and virtual system model of the system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly. In one embodiment the data from the various components of the monitored system and the real time predictions forecasts about the various operational aspects of the system can be displayed on a client display panel for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent. In another embodiment the data may be summarized in a hard copy report .

As discussed above the HTM Machine Learning Engine is configured to work in conjunction with a real time updated virtual system model of the monitored system to make predictions forecasts about certain operational aspects of the monitored system when it is subjected to a contingency event. For example where the monitored system is an electrical power system in one embodiment the HTM Machine Learning Engine can be used to make predictions about the operational reliability of an electrical power system in response to contingency events such as a loss of power to the system loss of distribution lines damage to system infrastructure changes in weather conditions etc. Examples of indicators of operational reliability include but are not limited to failure rates repair rates and required availability of the power system and of the various components that make up the system.

In another embodiment the operational aspects relate to an arc flash discharge contingency event that occurs during the operation of the power system. Examples of arc flash related operational aspects include but are not limited to quantity of energy released by the arc flash event required personal protective equipment PPE for personnel operating within the confines of the system during the arc flash event and measurements of the arc flash safety boundary area around components comprising the power system. In still another embodiment the operational aspect relates to the operational stability of the system during a contingency event. That is the system s ability to sustain power demand maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve operate safely with minimum operating cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and provide an acceptably high level of power quality while being subjected to a contingency event.

In still another embodiment the operational aspect relates to the voltage stability of the electrical system immediately after being subjected to a major disturbance i.e. contingency event . Generally speaking voltage instability stems from the attempt of load dynamics to restore power consumption after the disturbance in a manner that is beyond the capability of the combined transmission and generation system. Examples of predicted operational aspects that are indicative of the voltage stability of an electrical system subjected to a disturbance include the total system power capacity available system power capacity and utilized system power capacity of the electrical system under being subjected to various contingencies. Simply voltage stability is the ability of the system to maintain acceptable voltage profiles while under the influence of disturbances.

In still yet another embodiment the operational aspect relates to harmonic distortions in the electrical system subjected to a major disturbance. Harmonic distortions are characterized by non sinusoidal non linear voltage and current waveforms. Most harmonic distortions result from the generation of harmonic currents caused by nonlinear load signatures. A nonlinear load is characteristic in products such as computers printers lighting and motor controllers and much of today s solid state equipment. With the advent of power semiconductors and the use of switching power supplies the harmonics distortion problem has become more severe.

Examples of operational aspects that are indicative of harmonic distortions include but are not limited to wave shape distortions oscillations parallel and series resonance total harmonic distortion level transformer K Factor levels true RMS loading of lines transformers capacitors indicators of negative sequence harmonics being absorbed by alternating current AC motors positive negative zero angle frequency response etc.

in step the power analytics server can determine which operating mode s that the electrical system is being simulated under. That is the virtual system model of the electrical system can be modified by the user to simulate the system operating under multiple different operating scenarios conditions and system contingencies. The power analytics server is configured to utilize the operating mode settings while simulating the operation of the electrical system to make predictions about the system s health performance availability and reliability. In one embodiment the operating mode s relate to the multiple contingency events that the electrical system may be subjected to during regular operations. The contingency events can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the operational health performance availability and reliability of the electrical power system can be assessed under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . That is in one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a user in accordance with the his her requirements.

In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with control logic that is dynamically adaptive o past observations of the electrical power system. That is the control logic learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the electrical power system operating under various conditions.

In another embodiment the operating mode s can relate to the multiple load levels that the electrical system operates under. That is the virtual system model of the electrical system can be simulated under various power system load configurations or capacity conditions. In one embodiment the system is simulated as operating under a base load power configuration. That is the electrical system can be simulated as operating continuously at its maximum rated power output. Under this configuration power systems only shut down to perform maintenance or if something breaks. Accordingly the ability to test under such conditions cannot be achieved in conventional systems. In another embodiment the electrical system can be simulated as operating under a load following power configuration. That is the electrical system is simulated as operating in a fluctuating manner by adjusting its power output as demand for electricity fluctuates throughout the day. In still another embodiment the electrical system is simulated as operating at various different power load capacity levels. For example the electrical system may be simulated as operating at 10 25 50 75 or 100 of its rated power generation capacity.

Continuing with the operating mode s can relate to different system and load point reliability indices assigned to the components that make up the electrical system. In one embodiment for example changes can be made to the reliability indices of individual components. In another embodiment changes can be made to all the components that make up the system.

In still yet another embodiment the operating mode s relate to the different remedial measures or actions that are implemented on the electrical system to respond to the various contingency situations that the system may be subjected to. For example remedial measures can relate to the various types of uninterruptible power supply UPS systems operating on the electrical system various protective devices that are integrated to the system various operating limits and conditions that are placed on the system etc.

In step the power analytics server is configured to utilize the operating mode settings determined in step and the updated virtual system model of the electrical system to simulate and predict aspects relating to the real time health performance reliability and availability of the electrical system. For example the power analytics server can simulate and predict aspects relating to 

Additionally the predictions may also relate to the real time ability of the electrical system to 1. sustain power demand and maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve to cope with ongoing changes in demand and system disturbances due to contingencies 2. operate safely with minimum operating cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and 3. provide an acceptably high level of power quality maintaining voltage and frequency within tolerable limits when operating under contingency conditions.

Continuing with in step the power analytics server is configured to output the predictions in the form of a print out or display of text graphics charts labels and model views that readily communicates the health and predicted performance of the electrical system in an elegant and efficient fashion. The information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrates the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the capacity of a subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques some of which are describe below in step .

In one embodiment the model views are 3D i.e. 3D Plant Lifecycle Model model views of the various components equipment and sub systems that comprise the electrical system. Examples of some 3D model views are depicted in a client interface screenshot in . The 3D model views can be generated by an integrated 3D visualization engine that is an integrated part of the power analytics server. In another embodiment the model views are 2D model views of the various components equipment and sub systems making up the electrical system. An example of a 2D model view is also depicted in .

As alluded to above in step the results of the simulation and predictive analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine to support incremental learning about the power capacity characteristics of the system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into a machine learning engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the health performance reliability and availability of the electrical system. Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and generate recommendations.

The 3D visualization engine is interfaced with the predictive elements of the power analytics server and communicatively connected to the data acquisition hub and the client . The data acquisition hub is communicatively connected via data connections to a plurality of sensors that are embedded throughout the electrical system . The data acquisition hub may be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connections are hard wired physical data connections e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensors and the hub . In another embodiment the data connections are wireless data connections. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub . Real time system data readings can be fed continuously to the data acquisition hub from the various sensors that are embedded within the electrical system .

Continuing with the client is typically a conventional thin client or thick client computing device that may utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. analytics engine e.g. configuration analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters choice of contingency event to simulate etc. 3D visualization engine e.g. configuration files 3D visualization parameters etc. and virtual system model of the system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly in one embodiment the data from the various components of the electrical system and the real time predictions forecasts about the health performance reliability and availability of the electrical system can be displayed on a client display panel for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent. In another embodiment the data may be summarized in a hard copy report .

Given the complexity of modern electrical power systems and the significant challenges they pose to owners operators and managers of critical regional national and international electrical networks there is a need for automated software tools that can allow the rapid deployment of schematic based user interfaces to provide precise and well understood perspective of the overall health and performance of the various components that comprise an electrical power system. Ideally the tools can be configured to automatically read electrical system configuration data from a database containing a virtual system representation i.e. virtual system model of the electrical system generate a schematic user interface view of the electrical system and intelligently link the various components included in the user interface to the predicted monitored and or derived output values of those various components.

As depicted herein the Schematic User Interface Creator Engine can be integrated within a power analytics server that can be communicatively connected via a network connection with a data acquisition hub a client terminal and a virtual system model database . The virtual system model database can be configured to store the virtual system model of the electrical system. The virtual system model can be constantly updated with real time data from the data acquisition hub to effectively account for the natural aging effects of the hardware that comprise the total electrical power system thus mirroring the real operating conditions of the system. The Schematic User interface Creator Engine can be configured to automatically create a schematic user interface that is representative of the electrical system and link that interface to the sensors monitoring the components i.e. electrical equipment that comprise the electrical system to enable real time monitoring of the derived output values from those components. The user interface can include a visual representation of each piece of electrical equipment associated tagged with a unique identifier that comprises the electrical system. In one embodiment the schematic user interface is based on a one line diagram construct. In another embodiment the schematic user interface is based on a technical system schematic diagram construct. However it should be appreciated that the user interface can be based on any engineering diagram construct as long as the resulting interface can be displayed on a client terminal to allow by an operator administrator.

In addition to being communicatively connected to the data acquisition hub and the client the Schematic User Interface Creator Engine can also be interfaced with the predictive elements of the power analytics server. The predictive elements of the power analytics server may relate to the real time health performance reliability and availability of the electrical system. For example the predictions can be indicative of the real time ability of the electrical system to 1. sustain power demand and maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve to cope with ongoing changes in demand and system disturbances due to contingencies 2. operate safely with minimum operating cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and 3. provide an acceptably high level of power quality maintaining voltage and frequency within tolerable limits when operating under contingency conditions.

The data acquisition hub can be communicatively connected via data connections to a plurality of sensors that can be embedded throughout the electrical system . The data acquisition hub can be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as apiece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connections are hard wired physical data connections e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensors and the hub . In another embodiment the data connections are wireless data connections. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub . Real time system data readings can be fed continuously to the data acquisition hub from the various sensors that are embedded within the electrical system .

Continuing with the client can be a conventional thin client or thick client computing device that can utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. power analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters choice of contingency event to simulate etc. Schematic User Interface Creator Engine e.g. configuration files schematic interface algorithms etc. and virtual system model of the electrical system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly in one embodiment the real time data from the various monitored components of the electrical system and the real time predictions forecasts about the health performance reliability and availability of the electrical system can be simultaneously visualized on the schematic user interface that is displayed on a client terminal for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent. This schematic user interface can provide a desirable approach to communicating the monitored and predicted operational aspects of an electrical system to an operator administrator. In one embodiment the schematic user interface is rendered in a 2 dimensional 2D graphical image format. In another embodiment the schematic user interface is rendered in a 3 dimensional 3D graphical image format.

The process begins with step where system configuration data can be extracted from a virtual system model of the electrical system. The virtual system model can be stored in one or more virtual system model database s that are communicatively connected to the power analytics server. The configuration data can be stored in the memory of the power analytics server or a network application server and can include the unique identifiers i.e. node IDs of each of the components i.e. piece of electrical equipment that comprise the virtual system model connectivity information i.e. the electrical connectivity between the various virtual system model components and or the data connectivity with the sensors monitoring those components and or equipment specific information such as bus or branch specific equipment type e.g. generator circuit breaker transformer motor fuse static load etc. .

In step a logical construct of the virtual system model can be constructed from the system configuration data. In one embodiment the logical construct can be created in an Extensible Markup Language XML format. In another embodiment the logical construct can be created in an Extensible HyperText Markup Language XHTML format. It should be appreciated that the logical construct can be created using any mark up language as long as it can be utilized to convey system configuration information about the components i.e. electrical equipment that make up the virtual system model.

In step one or more graphical objects can be generated to represent one or more pieces of electrical equipment included in the logical construct. This can be accomplished through the schematic user interface creator engine or equivalent application s parsing the system configuration data stored in the logical construct and generating appropriate symbol block s and or graphical object s for each piece of electrical equipment that comprise the electrical system. The symbol block s or graphical object s that are generated can then be individually organized as buses and or branches.

In step the one or more graphical objects can Be organized to generate a schematic user interface layout of the electrical system. This can be accomplished using a self executing algorithm that can be either an integrated component of the schematic user interface creator engine or a separate discrete application that is configured to work in conjunction with the schematic user interface creator engine. In one embodiment the self executing algorithm is a. .NET based application. In another embodiment the self executing algorithm is an ACTIVE X based application. In still another embodiment the self executing algorithm is a JAVA based application. It should be understood however that the self executing algorithm can be created using any type of programming language as long as the resulting algorithm can function either as a component of the schematic user interface creator engine or in conjunction with the same.

In one embodiment the self executing algorithm is in a force directed layout format. In another embodiment the self executing algorithm is in a tree layout format. In still another embodiment the self executing algorithm is in a layered diagraph layout format. It should be appreciated that the self executing algorithm can follow any format as long as each of the one or more graphical objects symbol blocks in the resulting schematic user interface layout can later be linked to a corresponding piece of electrical equipment that comprise the electrical system.

After the schematic user interface layout of the electrical system is generated it can be further optimized using the schematic interface creator engine or equivalent application to scan the schematic user interface layout and re align the graphical object s based on one or more user selected optimization criteria.

In step each of the one or more graphical objects in the schematic user interface layout can be communicatively linked to sensors configured to monitor the real time operational status of the one or more pieces of electrical equipment represented by the one or more graphical objects. This can be accomplished by intelligently linking the unique identifiers e.g. equipment IDs associated with each of the graphical objects symbol blocks to their corresponding database files and creating a tag or communication channel with the same unique identifier to allow the files to be populated with data from the electrical equipment associated with each unique identifier. For example a Graphical Object A with a unique identifier of 001 can be linked to the database file A which is associated with the 001 identifier. A communication channel 001 can then be opened to allow data acquired from a piece of electrical equipment associated with the 001 identifier to populate database file A. 

The communication linkage between the graphical objects in the schematic user interface layout and the database s that store real time data acquired from the operation of the electrical equipment allow the schematic user interface to dynamically represent fluctuations in the real time health performance reliability and availability of the electrical system. For example the buses and branches in the schematic user interface layout can be configured so that they change colors and or become animated in response to the monitored real tune data of and or predicted values for the electrical system during operation.

That is a conventional energy management system only presents a user i.e. electrical system owner administrator and or operator with a view of how the electrical system is currently operating and or has operated in the past without having the ability to make predictions about how the electrical system will operate in the future or allow the running of simulations based on user programmed what if scenarios. The ability to predict the active power demand system losses reactive power demand and other energy parameters via a model i.e. virtual system model of the electrical system that can age and synchronize itself in real time with the electrical system s actual operating conditions is critical in obtaining accurate predictions of the system s energy efficiency i.e. cost of losses that are inherent to the electrical system and those due to the inefficient operation of the electrical system energy costs reliability availability health and performance. Without operational conditions synchronization or an aging ability these predictions are of little value as they are not reflective of the actual facility status and may lead the user to make false conclusions.

Given the attendant challenges that modem electrical power systems pose to owners operators and managers of critical facility specific regional national and international electrical networks and the shortcomings of conventional energy management systems there is a need for an energy management system that integrates a real time energy cost computational algorithm i.e. real time utility power pricing engine along with a logical power flow forecasting state estimation reliability and availability model i.e. virtual system model of the electrical system a data acquisition system and power system simulation engines with a logic based approach to the adjustment of key parameters within the virtual system model to synchronize the virtual system model with the real facility and effectively age the virtual system model along with the electrical system it is associated with. Such a system can be configured to make predictions regarding the expected energy efficiency energy costs cost of inherent system losses and cost due to running the electrical system at poor power factors along with calculating and comparing the availability and reliability of the electrical system in real time. These predictions and calculations can then be used to arrive at actionable reliability centered maintenance and energy management strategies for mission critical or business critical operations which may lead to the re alignment of the electrical system for optimized performance maintenance or security.

As depicted herein the Energy Management System Engine can be integrated within a power analytics server that can be communicatively connected via a network connection with a data acquisition hub a client terminal and a virtual system model database . The virtual system model database can be configured to store the virtual system model of the electrical system . The virtual system model can be constantly updated with real time data from the data acquisition hub to effectively account for the natural aging effects of the hardware that comprise the total electrical power system thus mirroring the real operating conditions of the system.

In addition to being communicatively connected to the data acquisition hub and the client the Energy Management System Engine can also be interfaced with the predictive elements of the power analytics server. The predictive elements of the power analytics server may relate to the real time health performance efficiency reliability and availability of the electrical system . For example the predictions can be indicative of the real time ability of the electrical system to 1. sustain power demand and maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve to cope with ongoing changes in demand and system disturbances due to contingencies 2. operate safely with minimum opera cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and 3. provide an acceptably high level of power quality maintaining voltage and frequency within tolerable limits when operating under contingency conditions.

The Energy Management System Engine can be configured to process the real time data output the predicted data output historical data output and forecasted aspects about the operation of the electrical system to generate a user interface that can convey an operational state of the electrical system to a user i.e. electrical system owner system administrator operator . In one embodiment the operational state can be the real time operational performance of the electrical system . In another embodiment the operational state can be the predicted operational performance of the electrical system . In still another embodiment the operational state can be a historical data trending display of the historical operational performance of the electrical system .

For example the Energy Management System Engine can be configured to generate a text based or a graphics based user interface that conveys real time predicted and or historical operational performance of the electrical system that can include real time predicted or historical information regarding the electrical system s energy efficiency i.e. the cost of energy utilized by the electrical system the cost of intrinsic power losses within the electrical system the cost of power losses due to the electrical system running at poor power factors reliability i.e. the predicted ability of the electrical system to withstand a contingency event that results in stress to the electrical system availability e.g. the predicted ability of the electrical system to maintain availability of total power capacity health and performance. Moreover the user interface can also include a visual representation of each piece of electrical equipment associated tagged with a unique identifier that comprises the electrical system . In one embodiment the user interface is based on a one line diagram construct. In another embodiment the user interface is based on a technical system schematic diagram construct. However it should be appreciated that the user interface can be based on any engineering diagram construct as long as the resulting interface can be displayed on a client terminal to allow viewing by an operator administrator.

The data acquisition hub can be communicatively connected via data connections to a plurality of sensors that can be embedded throughout the electrical system . The data acquisition hub can be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connections are hard wired physical data connections e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensors and the hub . In another embodiment the data connections are wireless data connections. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub . Real time system data readings can be fed continuously to the data acquisition hub from the various sensors that are embedded within the electrical system .

Continuing with the client can be a conventional thin client or thick client computing device that can utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. power analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters choice of contingency event to simulate etc. Energy Management System Engine e.g. configuration files etc. and virtual system model of the electrical system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly in one embodiment the real time data from the various monitored components of the electrical system and the real time predictions forecasts about the health performance reliability and availability of the electrical system can be simultaneously visualized on the user interface that is displayed on a client terminal for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent. This user interface can provide a desirable approach to communicating the monitored and predicted operational aspects of an electrical system to an operator administrator. In one embodiment the user interface is rendered in a 2 dimensional 2D graphical image format. In another embodiment the user interface is rendered in a 3 dimensional 3D graphical image format.

In one embodiment the connection is a hardwire physical connection. For example the power analytics server can be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to the data acquisition component . In another embodiment the connection is a wireless connection e.g. Wi Fi BLUETOOTH etc. . For example a wireless connection utilizing an 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format. In still another embodiment the connection can be a combination of hardwire and wireless connection elements that are linked together based on the particular requirements of the Energy Management System.

Still with the power analytics server can be configured to host one or more analytic engines that allow the Energy Management System to perform its various functions. For example as depicted herein the power analytics server can host a machine learning engine a virtual system modeling engine and or a utility power pricing engine . The machine learning engine can be configured to work in conjunction with the virtual system modeling engine and a virtual system model of the electrical system to make real time predictions i.e. forecasts about the various operational aspects of the electrical system. The machine learning engine work by processing and storing patterns observed during the normal operation of the electrical system over time. These observations are provided in the form of real time data captured using a multitude of sensors that are imbedded within the electrical system.

The utility pricing engine can be configured to access a utility power pricing data source that includes energy cost tables and other power billing data to generate real time energy cost and usage data that is reflective of the operational efficiency and performance of the electrical system. Examples of real time energy cost and usage data can include but are not limited to 1. the real time cost of energy utilized by the electrical system energy cost 2. the real time cost of intrinsic power losses within the electrical system cost of losses and or 3. the real time cost of power losses due to the electrical system running at poor power factors cost due to poor power factor .

In one embodiment the utility power pricing data source is populated with static utility power pricing data . That is utility power pricing data that is either directly supplied by a user of the Energy Management System or data that is extracted from utility data pricing data sheets tables that are downloaded from the utility power provider supplying electrical power to the electrical system. In another embodiment the utility power pricing data source is populated with real time dynamic power pricing data directly from the utility power provider supplying the electrical power to the electrical system. For example the real time dynamic power pricing data can be power spot pricing that is set by a utility power provider based on a variety of different real time power grid operational factors e.g. power grid load cost of power generation etc. .

Continuing with the virtual system model database can be configured to store a virtual system model of the electrical system. The virtual system model can be constantly updated with real time data from the data acquisition hub to effectively account for the natural ageing effects of the hardware that comprise the total electrical power system thus mirroring the real operating conditions of the system. Moreover the virtual system model stored in the virtual system model database can be accessed by the power analytic engines i.e. machine learning engine and virtual system modeling engine that are part of the Energy Management System to make various types of power analytics forecasts predictions including but not limited to power system reliability predictions power system operations forecasts power system state estimations and or power system operational cost predictions i.e. cost of energy cost of losses and cost associated with running the electrical system inefficiently .

The real time historical data trending database can be configured to store the real time data output the predicted data output and the forecasted aspects output from the power analytics server and apply a historical trending algorithm to generate a historical data trending display that is indicative of the historical performance of the electrical system. The historical data trending display can present many different categories of data relating to the historical operation of the electrical system including but not limited to 

In one embodiment the network connection is a hardwired physical connection. For example the data acquisition hub may be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to a data server not shown that is communicatively connected via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling through the Internet and to the analytics server server. The analytics server being also communicatively connected with the Internet via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling . In another embodiment the network connection is a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi WLAN etc. . For example utilizing an 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format. In practice the network connection utilized is dependent upon the particular requirements of the monitored system .

The energy management system engine hosted by the power analytics server can be configured to collect and process the real time data output the predicted data output and the forecasted aspects output from the various analytic engines i.e. a machine learning engine a virtual system modeling engine and or a utility power pricing engine that comprise the Energy Management System and generate a text or graphical user interface that conveys an operational state of the electrical system.

The embodiments described herein can be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

It should also be understood that the embodiments described herein can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations that form part of the embodiments described herein are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The systems and methods described herein can be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

Certain embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although a few embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail herein it should be understood by those of ordinary skill that the present invention may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the present examples and embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details provided therein but may be modified and practiced within the scope of the appended claims.

