---

title: Method for manufacturing a hydrogen fuel cell cartridge, hydrogen fuel cell cartridge, and hydrogen fuel cell system
abstract: A method of fabricating a hydrogen fuel cell cartridge is provided. Furthermore, a hydrogen fuel cell cartridge is provided. In addition, a hydrogen fuel cell system is provided, which includes a plurality of cartridge segments in a spiral configuration and a control unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461323&OS=09461323&RS=09461323
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09461323
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140805
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of fuel cells and more particularly to hydrogen fuel cell systems.

The use of fuel cell technology for portable power systems potentially offers a lower weight burden compared to other portable power sources. However high power density low temperature Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cells PEMFCs require a Hfuel source. One promising Hfuel source is alane AlH . This chemical hydride offers high Hgravimetric density as well as a Hfeed stream with only trace amounts of contaminants.

The only products from the above reaction are Hand aluminum. However conventional PEMFECs using this method of Hproduction from alane have a number of drawbacks. For example after prolonged heating of alane at low temperatures increasing the temperature does not produce additional Hgas. Furthermore conventional PEMFCs which heat the alane at higher temperatures consume more energy heating the alane or hydrogen fuel source making less energy available for the user. In addition due to the larger thermal mass of conventional PEMFCs a significant amount of Hgas is released during shut down as the cartridge cools down requiring the ability to utilize and store the energy contained in the Hgas. Lastly the process of replacing used fuel cell cartridges during operation of the PEMFC called hot swapping requires users to handle a hot fuel cell cartridge which is a safety hazard.

The present disclosure resolves all of the aforementioned problems associated with conventional PEMFCs. According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a method of fabricating a hydrogen fuel cell cartridge is provided. The method includes combining at least one insulation layer at least one heater layer at least one fuel source layer comprising a hydrogen fuel source compound and at least one waste heat exchange layer rolling the combined layers to form a spiral inserting segments of an insulation material in the at least one fuel source layer to form cartridge segments and inserting the spiral into an insulated container. Furthermore the at least one waste heat exchange layer contains a coolant fluid.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a hydrogen fuel cell cartridge is provided that includes a plurality of cartridge segments in a spiral configuration. Each of the plurality of cartridge segments includes at least one insulation layer at least one heater layer at least one fuel source layer comprising a hydrogen fuel source compound and at least one waste heat exchange layer. The at least one fuel source layer is adjacent to the heater layer and the waste heat exchange layer and the at least one waste heat exchange layer contains a coolant fluid.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is a hydrogen fuel cell system including a plurality of cartridge segments in a spiral configuration and a control unit. Each of the plurality of cartridge segments includes at least one insulation layer at least one heater layer at least one waste heat layer and at least one fuel source layer. The control unit is configured to select a cartridge segment of the hydrogen fuel cell cartridge with the hydrogen fuel source that has not been depleted determine a required hydrogen demand of the hydrogen fuel cell cartridge control a heater layer of the selected cartridge segment measure hydrogen production of the selected cartridge segment and determine whether the required hydrogen demand has been met.

The rate of Hdesorption from alane is strongly dependent on temperature the reaction rate constant for this reaction k can be represented as k Ae where A E and R are the pre exponential factor activation energy and universal gas constant respectively . This endothermic reaction is thermodynamically feasible at room temperature but requires higher temperatures to produce Hat an effective rate for a conventional PEMFC. Thus in the conventional PEMFC in cartridge heater applies heat to alane pellet ranging from 155 C. to 185 C. resulting in the production of Hgas.

In conventional PEMFCs a significant challenge for effective fuel utilization of the cartridge is maximizing production of Hgas from the alane fuel source and satisfying the specific fuel demands of the user. As shown in alane must be heated to temperatures ranging from 155 C. in order to maximize the percentage weight of Hreleased from the alane fuel source. Lower temperature results in significantly less Hrelease.

Conventional chemical hydride systems increase the temperature of the entire alane fuel source such as alane fuel pellet in as more His required by the user. However this approach requires more energy from the PEMFC to heat the entire alane fuel source. Furthermore heating the entire alane fuel source can result in the production of excess H which requires the ability to store unused Hgas or utilize the excess Hgas. Moreover the removal of depleted cartridges which were heated at such high temperatures requires users to handle hot cartridges which is a safety hazard.

In addition heating the entire alane fuel source may result in sections of the cartridge being at lower temperatures ranging from 90 C. to 155 C. which has drawbacks. As shown in if the alane fuel source is heated at lower temperatures ranging from 90 C. to 155 C. all of the Hgas will not be released from the alane fuel source even if the alane fuel source is later heated at higher temperatures. Thus heating the alane fuel source in a PEMFC at lower temperatures reduces the energy density of the PEMFC.

The present disclosure resolves the aforementioned disadvantages of the conventional art. More specifically the present disclosure presents a novel cartridge design that facilitates heating of an individual segment of an alane fuel source in a PEMFC to a desired temperature without significantly increasing the temperature of adjacent segments of alane fuel source in the PEMFC. In an exemplary embodiment shown in of the present disclosure the PEMFC cartridge includes a first cartridge segment second cartridge segment a third cartridge segment and a fourth cartridge segment . Each cartridge segment includes at least one fuel source layer e.g. fuel source layers . Furthermore each fuel source layer is adjacent to at least one heater layer e.g. heater layer . In addition each fuel source layer is positioned between at least two insulation layers e.g. insulation layers as shown in . All of the aforementioned layers are porous and Hdesorbed from the fuel source layers travels through all of the layers of the PEMFC cartridge and is exhausted from exhaust . This His then delivered to the fuel cell stack .

In another aspect of the present disclosure each fuel cartridge segment is augmented by at least one waste heat exchange layer . In this exemplary embodiment waste heat that is produced from the high temperature PEMFC is transferred to one or a plurality of waste heat exchange layers which are adjacent or proximate to a fuel source layer. The waste heat exchange layer may be used to increase or decrease the temperature of the fuel source layer. The waste heat exchange layer includes one or a plurality of heat pipes with a coolant that has a vaporization point above 180 C. Suitable coolants include but are not limited to glycols such as propylene glycol and ethylene glycol and oils such as mineral oil and silicon oil . The waste heat exchange layer is coupled to a heat pump that varies the flow rate of the coolant fluid. As shown in the exemplary embodiment in the waste heat exchange layer may include a condenser section a micro heat pipe section and an evaporator section

In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the fuel source layers are comprised of an Hfuel source. Suitable Hfuel sources also include but are not limited to AlH alane ammonia borane and ethylene diaminoborane EDAB lithium hydride or lithium aluminum hydride. Different polymorphs of alane may be utilized in the present disclosure although alpha alane is the most stable form of alane. Suitable heater layers are resistive film heaters including but not limited to polyimide heaters silicone rubber heaters mica heaters metal heaters and ceramic heaters. Suitable polyimide heaters are comprised of polymer materials including but not limited to polyimides polyamide imides polyetheretherketones polyphenylene sulfides polybenzimidazoles wholly aromatic polyesters and fluoropolymers.

The insulation layers are comprised of conventional insulation materials. In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the insulation materials have a thermal conductivity that ranges from 0.003 W m K to 0.04 W m K in order to avoid significant thermal leakage between the cartridge segments. Suitable materials for the insulation layer include but are not limited to aerogels pyrogels perlite air vacuum and mineral wool.

According to exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure the dimensions of the insulation layers fuel source layers and heater layers are as follows. The thickness of each insulation layer ranges from 0.01 cm to 1 cm 0.05 cm to 0.5 cm and 0.09 cm to 0.11 cm. The radius of each insulation layer ranges from 0.1 cm to 12.7 cm 0.6 cm to 6.35 cm and 0.8 cm to 1.8 cm The volume of each insulation layer ranges from 0.05 cmto 507 cm 0.1 cmto 63.3 cmand 0.3 cm to 0.7 cm. The weight of each insulation layer ranges from 0.005 g to 76 g 0.01 g to 9.5 g or 0.03 g to 0.12 g.

The thickness of the fuel source layer ranges from 0.1 cm to 30 cm 1 cm to 15 cm or 2 cm to 4 cm. The total radius of the fuel source layer ranges from 0.01 cm to 13 cm 0.1 cm to 6 cm or 0.1 cm to 1.9 cm. The total volume of the fuel source layer ranges from 1 cmto 15201 cm 5 cmto 1900 cm or 10 cmto 20 cm. The weight of the fuel source layers ranges from 2 g to 22 000 g 10 g to 2 824 g or 15 g to 31 g.

The thickness of each heater layer ranges from 0.001 cm to 0.2 cm 0.01 cm to 0.1 cm or 0.01 cm to 0.03 cm. The radius of each heater layer ranges from 0.1 cm to 12.7 cm 0.5 cm to 6.35 cm or 0.9 cm to 1.64 cm. The volume of each heater layer ranges from 0.01 cmto 101 cm 0.05 cmto 13 cm or 0.06 cmto 0.14 cm. The weight of each heater layer ranges from 0.001 g to 5.1 g 0.002 g to 0.63 g or 0.015 g to 0.005 g.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure heater layer of first cartridge segment heats fuel source layers at heating temperatures until all of the Hfrom the fuel source layers is desorbed. Heating temperatures range from 100 C. to 210 C. from 155 C. to 200 C. or from 175 C. to 185 C. Insulation layers e.g. insulation layers surrounding the fuel source layers allow only specific fuel source layers to be heated to heating temperature ranging from 155 C. without significantly impacting the temperature of the other cartridge segments. When and if the PEMFC requires additional H after all of the Hfrom first cartridge segment is desorbed then the PEMFC cartridge heats alane fuel source layers from another cartridge segment such as second cartridge second .

An exemplary method for manufacturing the present PEMFC shown in includes forming a plurality of cartridge segments in the PEMFC cartridge. Each cartridge segment is formed by forming at least one insulation layer forming at least one heater layer forming at least one fuel source layer comprising a hydrogen fuel source compound and forming at least one waste heat exchange layer. The at least one fuel source layer is adjacent or proximate to the heater layer and the waste heat exchange layer. The insulation layer may be created by the placing insulation material e.g. aerogel in the cartridge as a precut sheet or as filled in with insulation particles to the desired thickness. Compaction of the layer with a mechanical press may also be done to modify thickness and thermal conductivity of the insulation layer. The heater may be manufactured utilizing commercially available polyimide insulated foil heaters. The heaters are available in custom sizes and may be placed in the cartridge as shown in or . As shown in the waste heat exchange layer may be manufactured by utilizing micro heat pipes transferring waste heat from the fuel cell stack to the fuel cell cartridge. The heat pipes may be constructed from titanium aluminum or copper and the appropriate tube diameter with a valve system that may be selected to adjust the flow rate of the fluid including the amount of heat transfer. The heat is transferred from the fuel cell stack to the fuel cell cartridge utilizing a coolant fluid that is vaporized in the evaporator section in the fuel cell stack . The vapor moves through the micro heat pipes section to the fuel cell cartridge where the fluid condenses in the condenser section located in the fuel cell cartridge. The condensation releases heat to the fuel cell cartridge for the desorption of H.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure the fuel source layer may be created by compacting a fuel source such as alane powder utilizing a hydraulic press. According to another embodiment a mold or binding material can also be utilized to produce a fuel source layer that can placed in each cartridge segment as well as other conventional methods of forming alane pellets.

The present PEMFC cartridge may be easily integrated into conventional fuel cell units to provide power. Techniques of cartridge mechanical integration are well known in the art including conventional methods of connecting and sealing gas delivery systems such as propane CO and air portable gas canister delivery systems .

Another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in . Similar to the PEMFC shown in shows a first cartridge segment a second cartridge segment a third cartridge segment a fourth cartridge segment and so on. Similar to the PEMFC in includes an insulation layer and or a waste heat exchange layer a fuel source layer and a heater layer as well as an exhaust . Similarly the materials for the fuel source layer heater layer insulation layer and waste heat exchange layer which are discussed above may be used in this embodiment.

The cartridge shown in is manufactured by combining a fuel source layer heater layer and insulation layer rolling the combined layers into a spiral and placing the spiral in an insulated container which includes an exhaust port to form a PEMFC cartridge. The cartridge can be constructed from aluminum to provide mechanical strength. According to one exemplary embodiment a waste heat exchange layer condenser section of micro heat pipes may also be combined with the fuel source layer heater layer and insulation layer. According to one embodiment the fuel source layer heater layer insulation layer are combined using a calendar however other conventional methods of compressing or combining layers may be used including but not limited to dip coating or spray coating a slurry of the fuel source layer onto the heater layer laminated to the insulation layer. Gaps are allowed in the layer of alane or fuel source layer to allow for placement of the insulation or waste heat material.

After forming a spiral with the combined layers segments of insulation material or waste heat exchange layer material are inserted within the fuel source layer to form individual cartridge segments as shown in . Similar to the insulation layer in the spiral suitable materials for the segments of insulation material are conventional insulation materials having a thermal conductivity that ranges from 0.003 W m K to 0.04 W m K in order to avoid significant thermal leakage between the cartridge segments. Suitable materials for the insulation layer include but are not limited to aerogels pyrogels perlite and mineral wool.

The spiral configuration shown in allows the present PEMFC cartridge to be made in a thinner form in comparison to the PEMFC cartridge configuration shown in . The dimensions of the cartridge and cartridge segments described above for the non spiral cartridge embodiment may be used for the spiral cartridge embodiment.

In yet another aspect of the present disclosure control unit controls the waste heat produced by the PEMFC depending on the load required by the PEMFC. Depending upon the load control unit will directly vary the wattage of the PEMFC which will produce more or less waste heat from the PEMFC. For example at lower loads control unit will operate the PEMFC at a lower wattage which will produce less waste heat from the PEMFC. At higher loads control unit will operate the PEMFC at a higher wattage which will produce more waste heat from the PEMFC. By controlling the waste heat control unit controls the amount of waste heat that is transferred to the waste heat exchange layer and in turn the temperature of the fuel source layer.

In another aspect of the present disclosure control unit controls the flow rate of the coolant fluid in the waste heat exchange layer depending upon the power demand for the PEMFC. Thus at higher power demands for the PEMFC control unit will increase the flow rate of the coolant fluid which will increase the waste heat applied to the fuel source layer producing more Hgas. At lower power demands control unit will decrease the flow rate of the coolant fluid which will decrease the waste heat applied to the fuel source layer producing less Hgas. In another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure control unit is coupled to a temperature sensor. If the temperature sensor senses or predicts temperatures ranging from 90 C. to 155 C. in an unused cartridge segment control unit will decrease the heat applied to the cartridge segment by decreasing the heat applied to fuel source layer by the heater layer and or increasing the flow rate of the coolant fluid in the waste heat exchange layer. The temperature sensor may be implemented as an actual temperature sensor or a virtual temperature sensor. The virtual temperature sensor predicts or estimates temperatures based on various operating parameters such as load power accumulated watt hours fuel cell Hconsumption rate and the location of the segment being heated in the PEMFC cartridge and stored temperatures correlated with these operating parameters. The data for input into a database for virtual temperature estimation may also be obtained by combining the above mentioned data with a mathematical model of the cartridge. An example of a mathematical model that may be utilized is found in Assessment of Alane as a Hydrogen Storage Media for Portable Fuel Cell Power Sources Grew et al. Journal of Power Sources Vol. 217 November 2012 pp. 417 430 . shows the consequences of allowing a segment to remain at a lower temperature than 155 C. it can been seen that the resulting Hdesorption 4 is significantly lower than desorption at temperatures higher than 155 C. 7 . As shown in even when the temperature is subsequently increased maximum Hdesorption is not fully achieved i.e. 10 weight loss .

In another aspect of the present disclosure one or a plurality of waste heat exchange layers are configured adjacent or proximate to an unused fuel source layer. If the temperature sensor senses that the temperature of the unused fuel source layer ranges from 90 C. to 155 C. then the control unit increases the flow rate of the coolant fluid in the waste heat exchange layer to cool the unused fuel source layer. Thus the temperature of the unused fuel source layer is kept below 90 C. which facilitates optimal Hproduction from the unused fuel source layer.

In another aspect of the present disclosure depending upon the temperature detected by the temperature sensor control unit controls the heat applied by the waste heat exchange layer and or the heater layer. For example in this embodiment control unit may control the heat output by the heater layer s adjust the flow rate of the coolant fluid in the heat pipes of the waste heat exchange layers or control the fuel cell operation point or operation load. In one exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure control unit controls the heater layer s waste heat exchange layer s and the PEMFC operating load to ensure that the heating rate ranges 0.5 C. to 1000 C. per minute per segment 1 C. to 100 C. per minute per segment or 5 C. to 10 C. per minute per segment. Alternatively control unit will control the heater layer waste heat exchange layer and PEMFC operating load to ensure that the temperature of the unused adjacent cartridge segment ranges from 25 C. to 125 C. from 25 C. to 100 C. or from 25 C. to 90 C.

Conventional proportional controller and conventional proportional integral and derivative PID controllers may be utilized in the implementation of the control unit and control method shown in . In addition the optimal control parameters e.g. heating temperature and required Hflow rate of the present control unit and control method may be varied depending upon the size and geometry of the PEMFC cartridge. The control unit may be implemented as a microchip embedded software in an integrated circuit board or CPU in the PEMFC.

The present disclosure provides various advantages over conventional PEMFC cartridges. For example the present PEMFC cartridge maximizes Hrelease because an entire individual cartridge segments may be effectively heated to heating temperatures ranging from 155 C. In contrast conventional PEMFC cartridges e.g. shown in which heat the entire cartridge fail to effectively heat the entire cartridge at heating temperatures ranging from 155 C. some portions of the cartridge are heated at lower temperatures ranging from 90 C. to 155 C. . As shown in if the alane fuel source is heated at lower temperatures ranging from 90 C. to 155 C. then all of the Hwill not be released from the alane fuel source permanently reducing the energy density of the alane fuel source.

In addition the present PEMFC cartridge minimizes loss of Hproduction due to temperature decrease during shutdown. In the present PEMFC cartridge individual cartridge segments are heated at lower temperatures during shutdown rather than the entire cartridge as in the conventional art . Thus the energy density of a smaller portion of the alane fuel source is negatively impacted during shutdown in comparison to a conventional PEMFC cartridge.

Moreover the present PEMFC cartridge allows for quicker start up and shutdown i.e. heating and cooling than the conventional art. Conventional PEMFC cartridges heat the entire alane fuel source as shown in whereas the present PEMFC cartridge only heats an individual cartridge segment. Thus the thermal mass of the alane fuel source that is heated in the present PEMFC is significantly less than the alane fuel source heated in the conventional PEMFC. Accordingly the individual cartridge segments of the present PEMFC are heated and cooled more quickly than the entire alane fuel source in a conventional PEMFC e.g. alane fuel pellet in .

Furthermore the present PEMFC facilitates safer handling and swapping of cartridges compared to the conventional art. Because the present PEMFC cartridge only heats smaller individual cartridge segments rather than entire cartridge handling and swapping the present PEMFC cartridge while hot is safer for users compared to conventional PEMFC cartridges where the entire cartridge is heated .

Due to the high energy density of the present PEMFC and the aforementioned advantages of the present disclosure the present PEMFC is lightweight and accordingly may be used in wearable or portable fuel cell systems. Furthermore the high energy density of the present PEMFC may be used for military and commercial wearable or portable fuel cell systems. In addition the present PEMFC may be used in devices requiring a Hsource including analytical equipment such as gas chromatographs .

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present disclosure is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processing device a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

