---

title: Leg buddy
abstract: The inventive device described in the instant application is a leg rest with collapsible capabilities. It is made with light weight metal and thin airy cloth to rest the user's legs on. It can be used by the user anywhere because of the devices collapsibility and portability it is an efficient and convenient way to transport a leg rest. It is emphasized that this abstract is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher or other reader to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380880&OS=09380880&RS=09380880
owner: 
number: 09380880
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140922
---
The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 734 098 filed on Dec. 6 2012 to Carol Alexander Porter Jersey City NJ directed to the COLLAPSIBLE LEG REST that is hereby incorporated by reference. The inventor commonly refers to the collapsible head rest of the present application as the Leg Buddy .

The inventive device described in the instant application is a leg rest with collapsible capabilities. It is made with light weight metal and thin airy cloth to rest the users legs on. it can be used by the user anywhere because of the devices collapsibility and portability it is an efficient and convenient way to transport a leg rest.

Foldable leg rest devices are well known in the art. Various Patents and Published Patent applications are in fact directed to text projectors. While developing the invention of the instant application independently the Inventor researched extensively the public record as well as the current market for portable leg rests and the most relevant examples found in the search are mentioned in the Information Disclosure Statement IDS attached.

Despite all the efforts listed above prior art patents describe structures that are either not truly convenient or else involve complicated expensive and overly difficult assembly and or disassembly parts and procedures. Other devices have been advertised on various media but never patented or described into a printed publication.

The inventive device described in the instant application is a leg rest with collapsible capabilities. It is made with light weight metal and thin airy cloth to rest the user s legs on. It can be used by the user anywhere because of the devices collapsibility and portability it is an efficient and convenient way to transport a leg rest. The mechanism for the invention is a portable leg rest that folds open by with a canvas like material attached to the collapsible legs.

It is then the principal object of the present invention is to provide the user with a portable leg rest that can be used in any environment as readily as an umbrella.

It is a secondary objective of the present invention to provide user s with pain in their extremities a way to alleviate their pain.

It is an additional objective of the present invention to provide a device that does not rust or deteriorate over time. It is a final objective of the present invention to provide for a device that is relatively inexpensive to build but that can eventually be sold at a premium.

These and other objective achieved by the device of the present invention will be apparent by the drawings by their detailed description and by the specification here from appended.

The inventive device described in the instant application is a leg rest with collapsible capabilities. It is made with light weight metal and thin airy cloth to rest the user s legs on. It can be used by the user anywhere because of the devices collapsibility and portability it is an efficient and convenient way to transport a leg rest. The mechanism for the invention is a portable leg rest that folds open by with a canvas like material attached to the collapsible legs and has a center leg for stability.

The Collapsible Leg Rest is designed to portable and a foldable way for users to have access to a leg rest in any environment This device can be used by any user that had pain in their extremities or doesn t. In one preferred embodiment of Collapsible Leg Rest of the present application will be either a larger or smaller leg rest with extendable capabilities

The premise is to provide invention that is a leg rest for users who have pain in their extremities and need a leg rest to be readily available to alleviate the pain. The leg rest is portable thanks to its collapsible legs like that resemble the mechanism in an umbrella. This device will allow for the convenience of a leg rest to be used within any environment.

Users will have a convenient and efficient way of having a leg rest available in any instance. Collapsible Leg Rest provides a quick method to allow the user to alleviate any pain within their extremities by allowing them to raise their legs higher than their bodies.

A footstool foot stool footrest foot rest is a piece of furniture or a support used to elevate the foot. There are two main types of footstool which can be loosely categorized into those designed for comfort and those designed for function. This type of footstool is used to provide comfort to a person seated for example in a chair or sofa. It is typically a short wide four legged stool with a padded top upholstered in a fabric or animal hide such as leather. This type of footstool is also a type of ottoman. It allows the seated person to rest his feet upon it supporting the legs at a mostly horizontal level thus giving rise to use of the term footrest for this item. And high quality footstool could adjust different height as personal will.

An umbrella or parasol is a canopy designed to protect against rain or sunlight. The word parasol usually refers to an item designed to protect from the sun umbrella refers to a device more suited to protect from rain. Often the difference is the material some parasols are not waterproof. Umbrellas and parasols are primarily hand held portable devices designed to shield an individual from sun or rain and are sized for personal use. Today larger parasols are often used as fixed or semi fixed devices used with patio tables or other outdoor furniture or as points of shade on a sunny beach. The collapsible or folding umbrella may have first been used in China and had sliding levers similar to those in use today.

A cement is a binder a substance that sets and hardens as the cement dries and also reacts with carbon dioxide in the air dependently and can bind other materials together. The word cement traces to the Romans who used the term opus caementicium to describe masonry resembling modern concrete that was made from crushed rock with burnt lime as binder. The volcanic ash and pulverized brick additives that were added to the burnt lime to obtain a hydraulic binder were later referred to as cementum cimentum c ment and cement. Cements used in construction can be characterized as being either hydraulic or non hydraulic depending upon the ability of the cement to be used in the presence of water see hydraulic and non hydraulic lime plaster . Non hydraulic cement will not set in wet conditions or underwater and is attacked by some aggressive chemicals after setting.

Canvas is an extremely heavy duty plain woven fabric used for making sails tents marquees backpacks and other items for which sturdiness is required. It is also popularly used by artists as a painting surface typically stretched across a wooden frame. It is also used in such fashion objects as handbags electronic device cases and shoes.

Aluminium or aluminum see spelling differences is a chemical element in the boron group with symbol Al and atomic number 13. It is a silvery white soft ductile metal. Aluminium is the third most abundant element after oxygen and silicon and the most abundant metal in the Earth s crust. It makes up about 8 by weight of the Earth s solid surface. Aluminium metal is so chemically reactive that native specimens are rare and limited to extreme reducing environments. Instead it is found combined in over 270 different minerals. The chief ore of aluminium is bauxite. Aluminium is remarkable for the metal s low density and for its ability to resist corrosion due to the phenomenon of passivation. Structural components made from aluminium and its alloys are vital to the aerospace industry and are important in other areas of transportation and structural materials. The most useful compounds of aluminium at least on a weight basis are the oxides and sulfates. Despite its prevalence in the environment no known form of life uses aluminium salts metabolically. In keeping with its pervasiveness aluminium is well tolerated by plants and animals. Owing to their prevalence potential beneficial or otherwise biological roles of aluminium compounds are of continuing interest.

In one of its preferred embodiments the inventive device of the present application embodies a portable leg rest comprises The canvas rest that is stably held by the center leg and is stretched over a plurality of foldable legs that is held by a plurality of fastening means such as hinges or rubber stoppers. The foldable legs are connected to a plurality of collapsing arms by the metal hinge and stabilized by the metal bar . The leg rest device is tied together with elastic wrap . The canvas rest can be changed or washed thanks to the removable plastic cap .

In a separate preferred embodiment the portable leg rest of the present application comprises a band such as a rubber band to keep it tight when it is in its collapsed configuration. Both said center leg and said plurality of foldable legs are composed by a plurality of concentric tubes. Said tubes may be held in their extended configuration by a pin. In a separate preferred embodiment of the portable leg rest of the present application a plurality of internal springs are used to keep the central leg and said plurality of legs collapsed.

As to a further discussion of the manner of usage and operation of the present invention the same should be apparent from the above description. Accordingly no further discussion relating to the manner of usage and operation will be provided.

With respect to the above description then it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention to include variations in size materials shape form function and manner of operation assembly and use are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present invention.

Therefore the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

