---

title: Cross registrar compliance and communication mechanism
abstract: What is described is a system and method providing an improved customer experience for the registrant. The registrant is able to use a single interface and a single set of user inputs to bring about changes for multiple domain names. The single interaction with the single interface works out just as well and just as conveniently regardless of whether a single registrar happens to be handling all of the domain names, or whether each domain name is handled by a different registrar.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485213&OS=09485213&RS=09485213
owner: Uniregistry, Corp.
number: 09485213
owner_city: Grand Cayman
owner_country: KY
publication_date: 20140320
---
This application is a non provisional application claiming the benefits of provisional application No. 61 803 750 filed Mar. 20 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

More than 192 million domain names have been registered through the interactions of Registry Operators Registrars and Registrants. Registrants are the individuals or organizations that hold the right to use a specific domain name. Registrants gain this right by registering the domain name with a Registrar. Registrars are accredited by an international body called the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ICANN and compete with one another to get the business of Registrants. A Registry as defined by ICANN is the authoritative master database of all domain names registered in each Top Level Domain TLD . A Registry Administrator or Operator keeps the master database for the TLD and also generates the Domain Name System DNS zone file for the TLD which allows computers to route Internet traffic to and from top level domains anywhere in the world. The data of TLD zone files describe a portion of the domain name space for specific TLDs and contain information needed to resolve domain names to Internet Protocal IP numbers. Root servers contain the root zone file which gives the IP addresses of all the TLD zone files. The root zone file contains a list of names and numeric IP addresses of the authoritative DNS servers for all TLDs. This includes the global registries such as .com .org etc. as well as country specific registries such as .fr France .cn China etc. This information is critical and if it is not 100 correct or if it is unclear a key registry many not be locatable on the Internet. In the zone file for a particular TLD there will be entries for the various second level domain names in that TLD. Such an entry for a particular second level domain will contain pointers to the nameservers for that second level domain name. Each such nameserver will contain a zone file relating to that particular second level domain.

Zone files contain mappings between domain names and IP addresses in the form of a sequence of entries for resource records RR . Resource records are defined by descriptions including the domain name a time to live TTL field the record class the record type and other type specific data. A TTL field indicates the amount of time that a record exists before a domain name client must discard the record and re resolve the domain name that is to find the corresponding IP address. Zone files specify a Start of Authority SOA record. The SOA record includes the name of the authoritative master DNS that supplied the data for the zone the email address of the responsible administrator for the management of the DNS and the serial number of the zone file which is incremented each time the zone file is changed.

Each top level domain also has associated with it some other databases. One of these is a Whois database which gives contact information for each second level domain in the top level domain. Another is a database that keeps track for the registry of the particular registrar that is responsible for each second level domain.

Historically and as shown in a Registrant registers a domain name or domain names with a Registrar or Registrars and provides the Registrar with various contact and technical information that makes up the registration. The Registrar maintains records with this information and sends it to be stored in the central directory known as the Registry. As mentioned above a zone file contains domain names their associated names server names and the IP addresses for those names servers. The Registry provides other computers on the Internet the information necessary to access content associated with the domain name. The Registry Operator updates TLD zone files for its respective TLDs. However the Registry by which we mean Registry Operator does not interact directly with the Registrant. It instead waits for the Registrar to pass on any information it is provided by the Registrant. It is possible for a Registrant to hold rights to several domain names that have the same Top level Domain TLD such as .com or .net which are tied to the same Registry however each domain name may be administered by a different Registrar. In cases where a Registrant has registered multiple domain names with multiple Registrars should a Registrant want to make a general update such as an address update to all of its domain name registrations with the same TLD the Registrant would be required to send the request to multiple Registrars to do so. The same would be true should the Registrant desire to change nameservers cancel or renew a domain name transfer a domain name to another Registrant or other similar administrative tasks. It would be desirable to provide a more centrally controlled interface allowing a Registrant to process similar changes to multiple domain name registrations all at once or at least in batches.

The foregoing example of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent to the alert reader upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems tool and methods which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. In various embodiments one or more of the above described problems have been reduced or eliminated while other embodiments are directed to other improvements.

An embodiment of the current invention provides a registrant interface that allows registrants to see and centrally request changes to their domain names though their registrant accounts. The registry operator communicates the requested changes to registrars who are then required to act upon the changes in a timely manner. The interface insures that registrants always have a comprehensive overview of their domain names and can perform bulk operations even when their domain names are registered with multiple registrars. Changes requested through the registrant interface will be communicated to registrars via a messaging system. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the changes are communicated with a REST API and a web interface which serves as the main point of contact for the registrant.

In an embodiment of the invention the registrant interface will give registrants the ability to view a list of domain names they control see domain name details and request changes to domain names. This includes but is not limited to changing contact information changing domain name servers canceling deleting a domain name undeleting a domain name renewing a domain name transferring domain name to another registrant and or registrar Locking Unlocking domain names viewing the status of disputes on registrant s domain names viewing the request queue and history for registrant s domain names canceling pending requests managing registrant s account changing passwords and updating secondary emergency contact phone numbers.

In some embodiments of the invention all text in the registrant interface must be easily translated. Sessions time out after a reasonable amount of time for example after 20 minutes of inactivity. Sessions are not tied to IP addresses as some users may change IPs between requests. In an embodiment of the invention a significant GeoIP change between IPs may be considered for invalidation of sessions as a precautionary matter.

In addition to the exemplary aspects and embodiments described above further aspects and embodiments will become apparent by reference to the accompanying drawings forming a part of this specification wherein like reference characters designate corresponding parts in the several views.

The method is described with respect to . As will be appreciated the method is carried out with respect to a top level domain containing at least first and second domain names associated with a registrant the first domain name associated with a respective first registrar the second domain name associated with a respective second registrar the top level domain name having a zone file associated therewith the top level domain having an entity maintaining the zone file associated with the top level domain the entity defining a registry the top level domain having a domain name database associated therewith the top level domain having a registrar database associated therewith the registrar database containing records indicative for each of the at least first and second domain names of the respective registrar associated therewith the registrar database thereby defining which registrar has authority to acknowledge or negative acknowledge a proposed change with respect to the at least first and second domain names.

A first step of the method is receiving at the registry a request from the registrant the request indicative of a first proposed change to the domain name database with respect to the first domain name the request further indicative of a second proposed change with respect to the second domain name. The registry determines which registrar corresponds to the first domain name the determination carried out with respect to the registrar database. The registry transmits at to the registrar corresponding to the first domain name the first proposed change to the domain name database with respect to the first domain name. The registry determines which registrar corresponds to the second domain name the determination carried out with respect to the registrar database.

The registry transmits at to the registrar corresponding to the second domain name the second proposed change to the domain name database with respect to the second domain name. The registrar carries out an update of the domain name database via steps . The registrar carries out an update of the domain name database via steps . The registry receives a first acknowledgment from the registrar corresponding to the first domain name that said registrar has carried out the first proposed change to the domain name database with respect to the first domain name The registry receives a second acknowledgment from the registrar corresponding to the second domain name that said registrar has carried out the second proposed change to the domain name database with respect to the second domain name. The registry reports to the registrant at and the first acknowledgment and the second acknowledgment . In this example the second proposed change with respect to the second domain name might be making a change to the domain name database . In this example the first proposed change to the domain name database with respect to the first domain name might be a change of contact information for the first domain name or might be a change of name server for the first domain name or might be a transfer of registrant for the first domain name. In this example the second proposed change with respect to the second domain name might be a lock or unlock of the second domain name or might be a renewal of the second domain name.

What will be appreciated by the alert reader is that what has just been described is in many ways better for the registrant than older approaches. Importantly with the system just described the registrant is able to use a single interface and a single set of mouse clicks to bring about changes for multiple domain names. The single interaction with the single interface works out just as well and just as conveniently regardless of whether a single registrar happens to be handling all of the domain names or whether each domain name is handled by a different registrar.

To describe this from a different perspective in the prior art arrangement the registrant will have to interact separately with each registrar. If there are six domain names and if each is handled by a different registrar then the registrant would have to deal with six different user interfaces. As described here despite the presence of six different registrars the registrant would only have to interact once with a user interface that accommodates all six interactions at the same time. This approach is however very much at odds with the prior art approach in which the registry has no direct interaction whatsoever with registrants.

In embodiments of the invention a registrant account refers to a unique login account keyed on email address. A registrant account is a virtual entity that exists when at least one domain name has a non proxy registrant contact with a given email address the real registrant s genuine email address . Whenever a domain name s non proxy registrant contact has an email address that maps to an existing registrant account that registrant account gains access to the associated domain name through the registrant interface. If a real registrant contact changes its email address the new email address must establish a new password unless one is already established . In exemplary embodiments of the invention such a change is considered a change of control for the domain name.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention all security credentials related to a registrant account will be maintained in association with the email address and not with contact objects. This ensures that once a transfer of ownership occurs prior controllers registrants will lose access to the domain so long as the real email address on file for the domain changes.

In further embodiments of the invention the registrant s real email address must be genuine. Proxies are not permitted and the email address must be the email address of the actual paying registrant. Registrars are not permitted to circumvent this requirement nor act as an intermediary or stakeholder. In some embodiments of the invention should registrants or registrars attempt to use proxies or a non genuine email address it may result in de accreditation and domain name cancellation. In embodiments of the invention the Registry Operator will provide Extensible Provisioning Protocol EPP extensions that registrars must use to provide the registrant s real contact information including real email address while still allowing them to offer services such as privacy or proxy services. Although it is realized that there may be a legitimate need for proxy registrations and for additional privacy services embodiments of the invention require genuine contact information to be provided to the registry.

It may be appreciated that the way EPP operates and consequently the way registrants interact with registrars especially when dealing with multiple registrars results in multiple contact objects with the same email address. Additionally those contact objects may also be referenced as admin billing and tech contacts. To further complicate the matter there are legitimate reasons for registrants to have multiple contact objects with different registrant names by sharing the same email address. For example lawyers or escrow services may act on behalf of or as a proxy to multiple genuine registrants. In embodiments of the invention where that is the case only the registrant s genuine email address will be used as the primary key for grouping registrant data and for logging into the registrant interface.

Embodiments of the invention will extend EPP to allow contact objects to be marked as real genuine or proxy. All contact objects marked as proxy may link to a real genuine type object. When a proxy type contact is used as a registrant contact there must be a real genuine object linked to the proxy contact. The real genuine registrant contact object must contain the genuine registrant contact email address of the ultimate customer. No registrar proxies are permitted for the registrant contact object. Embodiments of the invention mirror or duplicate the data storage requirements of the registrants in order to allow a registry operator to provide a similar level of customer service compared to that of the registrars when contacted by registrants. In addition in some embodiments of the invention smaller registrars can utilize the registrar interface when proxy objects are involved without a need to cross reference against the smaller registrar s own system.

In exemplary embodiments of the invention if the proxy type contact object information for a domain changes a new contact must not be created. Instead the proxy object must be modified. This is true whether the changes are due to automatic rotation of email addresses and contact information or due to any other changes. In the event that the real genuine contact data must be revealed in WHOIS the registrar should track the object id of the proxy contact on the domain and re use the proxy contact object later when privacy is re enabled. If this is impractical to track or if privacy might not be re enabled automatically the proxy contact should be deleted immediately if unreferenced .

In embodiments of the invention the registry operator requires the following information about registrants in addition to the real genuine data requirements described above. At registration time registrars are required to obtain both a secondary email address and an emergency contact phone number from registrants which are then sent for example via EPP to the registry . The secondary email address and an emergency contact phone number are not visible in WHOIS output. Registrars are encouraged in exemplary embodiments of the invention to allow registrants to update this information. These fields must be real and may not be provided on proxy contact objects. They must be provided on any contact object used as a real genuine registrant contact.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention a registrar s intake form which collects the contact information described above will be required to indicate generally that the collected information will be passed on to the registry which is the registry operator to .EXTENSION names for your security and ease of management in the future . Further the form will generally note that the information will not be punished in WHOIS and is for account recovery purposes if the primary email contact is no longer accessible. Registrars may indicate in the form that emergency phone numbers be mobile numbers.

A registrant logs into the registrant interface with their primary real genuine registrant email address and password. If the registrant has not yet established a password they may access an I have not set my password or similar link on the login page which will take the user to an establish forgot password form. If the user attempts to log in by entering an invalid password the invalid password response will also link to an establish forgot password form. The establish forgot password form will ask for an email address. The form may have a reCaptcha or similar on it. On submission an email with a token containing link that expires over some period of time for example in 6 hours will be sent to the registrant s email address primary only not secondary . In an exemplary embodiment only token may be valid at a time and must be long enough to avoid random guessing of tokens. Once the registrant clicks on the link they must enter their email address again. If the email address matches the registrant will be shown a form to set a password. While picking a password the password must be typed a second time for confirmation.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention if the registrant has previously established a password they may login with their email address and password. If the user gets their password wrong five times a password recovery button will be presented that initiates the standard password recovery procedure. Existing passwords on the account should be cleared when this procedure is initiated and any existing sessions invalidated. They will need to follow the password establishment procedure above. The time and last IP Address and GeoIP of the previous login will be shown in the dashboard upon successful login.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention strong memorable passwords are preferred. Passwords should or must be at least eight characters long. They may contain UTF characters if supported by a password hashing algorithm . Password comparisons should or must be case sensitive. All password processing code should or must delete leading and trailing whitespace prior to comparison or hashing.

The user interface of the registrant interface of embodiments of the current invention provides an interface for the registrant to make changes to its domain name registration s grouped together in a single change request regardless of the number of changes or registrations to change. The change request would then be sent to the involved registrar s for processing. The registrars would have the opportunity to ACK acknowledge upon acceptance or NACK negatively acknowledge requests for various reasons. The registrars will also report completion if they ACK . The details will be provided below of how a queue of requests would be managed according to the methods of the current invention.

A registrant may view and make the following modifications utilizing the registrant interface and embodiments of the current invention 

The registrant may see what domains are associated to their registrant account. Recently expired and deleted names should be listed so that they may be recovered through renewal or undeletion. Names that have been transferred away to other registrants are not listed. In some embodiments of the invention the names that have been transferred away may be listed for historical record keeping purposes.

The registrant may view the details of its domain name registrations including contacts nameservers providing details to assist with initiating actions targeted to that name.

Registrants may update contact information on any of their domains including the registrant Name. If a registrant updates the registrant name embodiments of the invention will warn them that the registrant may incur a re registration fee from their registrar. If the registrant s real genuine contact email address is changed the change will be implemented after the registrar s system issues the appropriate EPP command such as or . When a contact is marked as proxy and has a real contact associated with it only the real contact object should be modifiable. In embodiments of the invention both real and proxy information should be shown if available.

Registrants may also see and request updates to their secondary email and emergency contact phone numbers associated with their contacts. Modifications will be sent to registrars for processing.

Though the interface a registrant may request that the registrar cancel the registration immediately upon receipt of the request and verification of any additional authentication they may have . The registrar then would be responsible for communicating any additional associated products and services that would be cancelled and any further costs the registrant will incur as a result of such cancelation such as early service termination penalties . As shown in it should be appreciated that a cancellation request might ultimately be NAKed by the registrar once the implications of the change have been communicated to the registrant .

As with other change requests renewals can be performed in bulk or one at a time. Should they apply maximum registration limits must be adhered to for example a current ten year limit. Warnings may be triggered should a registrant request a renewal for an out of the ordinary term for example one less than six months. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the warning dialog message would allow the registrant to easily go back and adjust the registrant s selection.

Renewals are carried out by registrars upon successful payment by the registrant to the registrar. The registrar is also responsible for communicating any additional costs that may be incurred immediately or in the future related to renewals such as hosting or privacy services. It should be appreciated that a renewal request may be NAKed by a registrar after communicating the implications of the change to the registrant for non payment.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention a domain name can only be undeleted during the Redemption Grace Period which may be 180 days or possibly more or possibly less. If the domain name with deleted by the registry operator and flagged as irrevocable at the time of deletion the previous registrant cannot undelete it. In some embodiments of the invention it shouldn t be listed on the registrant s domain name list. This is to protect against undeletions overriding enforcement related deletions.

Undeletion will present the previously registered registrant contacts and nameserver information to the previous registrar for processing. Should new objects contacts hosts etc. be required to restore the domain name information to be identical to its pre deletion state registrars must recreate them. Registrars may also need to re establish accounts as the registrar must enter into a new Standardized Form of Authorization FOA with the registrant and may optionally re enroll the registrant for services. The registrant must pay the registrar for a new registration. The name must be restored to the same registrar as was in effect at time of deletion effectively treating it as a new registration. The net result is that the name s state will be restored to the same as it was prior to deletion. For example WHOIS output should be identical to its pre deletion state.

A registrant may request the transfer of domain name s to another registrar and or registrant at any time. The interface of embodiments of the invention will support a change of contact information registrant name and nameservers as well as registrar. A transfer is indicated if either the real registrant email changes or the registrar changes. A compound registrant and registrar transfer would likely occur when a registrant is pushing a domain to its new owner after a sale.

When picking a new registrant to receive the name the sending registrant may provide full contact details or may provide simply an email address. The gaining registrar must ensure accuracy of the new information and establish accounts as appropriate including obtaining secondary contact email and emergency contact phone numbers for the registrant.

The system will first send an initial request to the losing registrar who will have an opportunity to ACK or send a message to the registrant on the request for example within 24 hours. Failing to respond within the exemplary 24 hour window will result in an automatic ACK. When responding the request the losing registrar s message will be sent to the registrant by email and via the registrant interface. When a registrar responds the registrant must either cancel the request or continue and contact the gaining registrar. A link in the email will take the registrant directly to the appropriate request but they must log again in to work with any other requests .

After being ACKed or continued by the registrant in response to a message the request will be sent to the gaining registrar for processing which may also include rejection for valid reasons .

In the case of multiple domains the losing registrant can respond to individual domains prior to ACKing the remaining domains. The regular transfer process takes place after the gaining registrar initiates a transfer allowing rejection of transfers for normal reasons providing a mechanism for legitimate transfer NAKs.

After the initial request to the losing registrar the gaining registrar sees the request for all ACKed domains in the request.

As no existing business relationship may exist with the registrant the gaining registrar must contact the registrant to arrange payment and to enter into an FOA with the registrant. The process followed in embodiments of the invention may be the ICANN transfer and FOA Authorization policy for transfers between registrars. At the time of contact the gaining registrar should also ascertain what other services the registrant will be using and obtain payment for those too if necessary. Contact may be through any means based on the supplied information.

While transfers do not incur credit cost to either involved registrar registrars are strongly encouraged to prompt the registrant to extend the expiry for a year and collect a payment for the renewal portion.

Registrants may request a lock unlock of its names via the registrant interface of embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention provide the registrant access to a list of its domain names currently in dispute. General information on handling the dispute will likely also be provided as well as links to the registrar contact for each name. Registrants will be able to manage disputes via the registrant interface.

Embodiments of the invention permit registrants to be able to change their password through the registrant interface. In order to do so both the current password and a new password must be entered. In some embodiments the new passwords may be entered twice for verification. In some embodiments of the invention getting the old password wrong a number of times for example five times will log the registrant out and the process must be restarted.

Embodiments of the invention allow a registrant to monitor pending requests as well as see the status of past requests through the registrant interface. Past requests may include both completed and cancelled declined requests. Pending requests may be canceled before a registrar has indicated that the request has been received.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention there will be a web interface and a REST API to manipulate the Request Queue . In an embodiment of the invention the Request Queue will not be made available via EPP. In embodiments of the invention the Request Queue will be made available in a read only manner to registrants except for the ability to cancel a request allowing the registrants to see the progress of their requests through monitoring option . Registrants may view the queue view request details and or check status . The status may be completed in progress or processing cancelled or pending . If the request is cancelled it may be resubmitted to the Registry Operator or escalated which then notifies the Registry Operator and the request is escalated . While a request is pending the registrant may cancel the request and a notification will be sent to the registrar . As previously noted the Request Queue will also be available to the Registry Operator .

In embodiments of the invention once a notification of a change request is received by the registrar it is viewed and must be acknowledged or declined NAK Request by the registrar prior to acting on the received request . If a request is declined registrars may provide at least one reason for doing so. The registrant will be able to see this reason after the registry receives the request NAKed and notifies the registrant . A notification that the request was cancelled will be received by the registrant . If the reason for declining should not be published to the registrant a second optional reason can be provided to the Registry Operator in the event of an audit or escalation . If requested changes require contacting the registrant to enter into agreements to complete an FOA for payment or to resolve any other matters registrars must do so promptly. Registrars must either initiate the requested change s via the registrar interface or via EPP. The registrar must mark the request as completed once the changes have been applied and their own systems have been updated to reflect the changes. Registrars have a time limit for example 24 hours to acknowledge the request and another time limit for example 24 hours to act on it after acknowledgement. Registrars may request time extensions which may be limited for example to two 24 hour extensions while attempting to act on a request. As previously noted registrants can cancel a request before it is acknowledged by the registrar. This results in the request being cancelled . In an exemplary embodiment if the time limit expires and there was not an acknowledgement requesting additional time the request will be cancelled and the registrar will be notified and the registrant will be notified . If there was an acknowledgement requesting additional time the request is monitored. The result may be request being complete no new activity leading to a warning communicated to the registrar about inactivity or the request being cancelled . Should an inactivity warning be received by the registrar there may be another opportunity for a further delay . If and when a submitted request is completed the registrant eventually is notified of the completion.

In embodiments of the invention once a notification of a change request is acknowledged by the registrar the requested is processed yielding an outcome which may lead to a cancellation of a request due to being unable to contact a registrant or a registrant declining a change perhaps based on fees . The reason for the cancellation is recorded the request is cancelled and a notification is received by the registry operator . Alternatively if the outcome is that the request is completed changes are applied and the registry operator is notified that the request was completed.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the REST API has the following characteristics. All requests are over as secure system for example HTPS SSL . Authentication is required for example app tokens cryptographic hashing or HTTP authentication and possibly SSL Certs like EPP . Indicators are provided for the list queue including new open and closed . Filters may be applied as well as data range searches providing limits on number of results and paginations. Details may be retrieved for a queue item. Status may be updated as ACK NAK respond done .

Miscellaneous policy considerations for embodiments of the invention with respect to registry operators to implement the registrant interface include WHOIS Privacy policy possibly provided by the registrars registrant initiated change compliance policy dispute policy and procedures registrant attribute collection best practices and appearance requirements for registrars registrant account unlocking and recovering procedures.

While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above the alert reader will recognize certain modifications permutations additions and sub combinations therefor. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims hereinafter introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications permutations additions and sub combinations are within their true spirit and scope.

