---

title: Method for improving the range of an electromagnetic signal receiving system
abstract: A receiving system is provided in which an analog electromagnetic signal is received from a signal source. A digital observable signal generator and digital to analog convertor (DAC) produce an analog observable signal while a digital dither signal generator and DAC produce an analog dither signal. The electromagnetic signal, the observable signal and the dither signal continue to a power divider via an analog signal combiner. The divider provides identical signal paths wherein each signal path includes a signal frequency bandwidth of interest. The signal paths are amplified onto an analog to digital converter (ADC). The ADC is operable for a Nyquist frequency bandwidth, wherein the dither signal includes a pseudo-random electromagnetic signal with electromagnetic energy that falls outside the signal frequency bandwidth of interest but falls within the Nyquist frequency bandwidth. A processor processes signals from the signal paths to produce a digital image of the analog electromagnetic signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094081&OS=09094081&RS=09094081
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09094081
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140725
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 985 085 filed on Apr. 28 2014 by the inventor Donald H. Steinbrecher and entitled METHOD FOR IMPROVING THE RANGE OF AN ELECTROMAGNETIC SIGNAL RECEIVING SYSTEM .

The present invention generally relates to electromagnetic signal acquisitions systems and specifically to optimizing a signal acquisition system that utilizes parallel processing channels.

The electromagnetic signal receiving system described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 466 167 by the present inventor Dr. Donald Steinbrecher is incorporated herein by reference. The receiving system is a parallel processing system in which signal energy of a frequency band of analog electromagnetic signal space is divided equally among parallel channels. As a minimum each parallel channel comprises an amplifier to lower system noise followed by an analog to digital converter ADC to create a digital image of the incident analog signal energy. The total signal energy is divided equally among the parallel channels so that each channel contains a portion of the energy from all signals in the frequency band of analog electromagnetic signal space.

The plurality of digitized channels is recombined in the digital signal processing domain to create a single digital image of the frequency band of analog signal space. It is stated in U.S. Pat. No. 6 466 167 that the minimum detectable signal MDS sensitivity is degraded by only a minor amount that is determined by the signal energy lost in the process of dividing the signal energy across a plurality of p identical signal channels.

It is further stated that the process of recombining the plurality of digital data streams in a digital signal processor can be accomplished without degrading the spurious free dynamic range SFDR of the system. This is because the SFDR of a digital signal processor is directly related to the number of mantissa bits carried for each digital word in the processor. An empirical relationship between the SFDR and mantissa bits is that the SFDR increases approximately 5 dB for each mantissa bit. Thus a digital signal processor DSP engine maintaining 32 mantissa bits would have a SFDR of at least 160 dB.

The programmable logic devices used for combining the plurality of digital signals and field programmable gate arrays FPGA allow the number of mantissa bits to be specified in the programmable logic. It follows that the digital combining process can be programmed to avoid degrading the SFDR regardless of how large a value of p is necessary to meet the mission SFDR requirement.

There are some items of concern with the above referenced art that were discovered as the system was operated. It was found that unexpected spurious responses that degraded overall performance were caused by imperfections in the ADCs used in the first p 12 system. It was concluded that such spurious responses could be expected in future systems emulating the same architecture.

The present invention addresses the above and other problems in a manner not shown in the prior art. Accordingly those skilled in the art will appreciate the present invention.

It is therefore a primary object and general purpose of the present invention to provide improved software defined signal processing for electromagnetic signal acquisition systems.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an optimum number of p channels for electromagnetic signal acquisition systems in which the processing system is referred to herein as a pChannel radio digital processor acquisition system or the like in light of an optimum SFDR performance.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an improved spurious free signal dynamic range useful in a variety of electromagnetic signal acquisition systems.

It is a still further object of the invention to provide a specific limit on the number of parallel processing channels required to achieve a mission specific SFDR.

It is a still further object of the invention to provide a fundamental limit for an analog signal path minimum available gain G preceding an analog to digital converter in order to achieve a specified system noise figure F.

In accordance with the present invention an electromagnetic signal receiving system is disclosed. One embodiment of the invention comprises elements such as an electromagnetic signal source that provides an analog electromagnetic signal a digital observable signal generator and an observable signal digital to analog convertor operable to produce an analog observable signal.

The invention further comprises a digital dither signal generator and a dither signal digital to analog converter operable to produce an analog dither signal. One possible preferred embodiment further comprises a power divider with p outputs wherein each of the outputs includes a signal frequency bandwidth of interest. The analog electromagnetic signal the analog observable signal and the analog dither signal are operably connected to the power divider.

P identical signal paths lead from the power divider. Each of the p identical signal paths includes an amplifier and an analog to digital converter. The analog to digital converter comprises a Nyquist frequency bandwidth wherein the dither signal includes a pseudo random electromagnetic signal with electromagnetic energy that falls outside of the signal frequency bandwidth of interest but falls within the Nyquist frequency bandwidth.

The present invention further comprises a signal processor operable to process signals from the p identical signal paths to produce a digital image of the analog electromagnetic signal.

In one embodiment the power divider may be implemented by utilizing an eplane with p epixels that produce the p outputs. By explanation the present invention utilizes a partitioned aperture for electromagnetic energy capture. The partitioned aperture may comprise p individual partitions of equal area each of which captures 1 p of the total electromagnetic energy captured by the principal aperture. Following U.S. Pat. No. 7 420 522 the total aperture is referred to as an Eplane while each of the p equal area partitions is referred to as an Epixel. The system further comprises an analog signal combiner that combines the analog electromagnetic signal the analog observable signal and the analog dither signal.

One purpose of the disclosed system is to provide software defined signal processing for a wide variety of electromagnetic signal acquisition systems and to improve the spurious free signal dynamic range SFDR of such systems by parallel processing of multiple signal channels. The system disclosed herein improves upon the design and performance of the system described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 466 167. The figures herein discuss embodiments of the system in accordance with the present invention.

In a configuration for a non limiting embodiment of a pChannel signal acquisition system depicts the minimum components necessary to realize the benefits of the present system. In the figure a wideband analog input signal from a signal source which could be an antenna or multiple antennas is combined in an analog signal combiner with two other locally generated analog signal components one of which includes an observable generator and corresponding digital to analog converter DAC that produces an analog observable signal. The signal combiner outputs a combined analog signal.

In this application the analog signal combiner is defined from a class of RF components used for combining RF signals from different sources. One variety is the class called directional couplers which are used to insert a signal so that the signal travels in only one direction in the main signal path. The choice of signal combiner depends on the system design frequency of operation. The choice can be made by one ordinarily skilled in the art of RF system design.

The locally generated analog signal components are a dither signal and an observable signal. Locally generated refers to the architecture in . However in some cases signals of opportunity could be used for a dither generator and for the observable signal. Therefore in many cases locally generated is not essential to the operation of the system.

In this application an observable generator is any RF signal that can be observed as a component of the complex signal space in the digital domain. The principal function of the observable is to provide a time stamp for each signal packet generated in the digital domain. When the input RF signal space is partitioned into p channels and converted into p digital data streams the timing of each data stream may be observed by reference to the observable so that the p channels can be properly aligned before recombining takes place. The result is that some latency is introduced in the process but the actual time of arrival of the signal is always derivable from the observable which is injected as a system input before any appreciable delay is introduced. The observable may be derived from a GPS time stamp at the specific location of the system.

A power divider divides the combined analog signal into p signals for p independent signal paths . Power dividers are common in RF systems and come in a variety of shape sizes and division ratios. The most common power dividers used in the pChannel architecture will be power of 2 dividers such as 2 4 8 16 32 etc.

As a minimum each of the p independent signal paths comprises an amplifier followed by an analog to digital converter ADC . Those skilled in the art will recognize that each signal path must also incorporate anti aliasing features to ensure that all signal energy falls within a single Nyquist band of the ADC in the signal path. Also each of the p independent but identical signal paths from the power divider include frequency translators filters attenuators and other analog signal processing components preceding the ADC as deemed essential to the mission requirements. Each ADC is enabled by a clock signal that determines the sample rate of the ADC. The clock signal frequency may be the same or different in each of the signal paths as determined by the intended application.

The observable generator digitally synthesizes an analog sine wave by way of the digital to analog converter at a frequency that is not in the signal band from the input signal but is in the pass band of each of the p independent signal paths . The amplitude of the signal from the observable generator in p independent signal paths is mission dependent. The signal from the observable generator passes through each of p independent signal paths along with the signal from the input signal and can be used by a programmable logic signal processor to correct any differential phase errors that may exist in the signal paths .

The signal from the observable generator can provide a method for time tagging the arrival of signals at the input signal . Using a known clock with one second marks for example a GPS clock the observable generator creates an analog signal with identifiable one second marks that is added to the input wideband analog input signal and passes through the p signal processing channels to the processor . The digital replica of the analog signal in each of the p channels signal paths is compared with an original replica of the identifiable one second marks in order to determine the individual time difference in each of the p channels. Using this information the processor can align the individual p channels signal paths before combining the channels to obtain a digital image of the wideband analog signal in which the digital image will contain the one second marks. The digital image is organized into data packets according to user requirements. Each data packet is numbered in reference to the last data packet that contains a one second mark. This process is known as time tagging .

Time tagging is accomplished by appending to each data packet which contain one or more data samples a counting number that is initialized at one second intervals. In order to accomplish this the observable generator is synchronized with a one second clock that may in turn be synchronized with a global positioning system time standard. The observable generator uses this one second clock to insert a marker in the signal from the observable generator that will be detected observed and used to reset the counting number.

For example the observable generator may flip the phase of the observable signal by 180 degrees. When this phase flip is detected by the signal processor the counting number is initialized and each subsequent sample is counted and tagged. A small amount of residual fixed delay in the system is calibrated and is known to the mission.

A variable delay that is associated with the programmed processor is the principal reason for incorporating time tagging in the system . However time tagging is critically important for correlating signals from one pChannel radio with those of other pChannel radios. Time tagging can be accomplished if the time tag is synchronized to a GPS clock and the locations of the plurality of pChannel radios is known.

A dither signal generator and a dither signal digital to analog converter DAC create a pseudo random analog signal that is added to the input signal out of a signal band of the analog input signal but within the passband of the signal paths . Dither in the context of this application is an intentionally applied form of noise used to randomize quantization errors when analog signals are digitized by the process of analog to digital conversion.

The function of the analog dither signal is to spread the energy of anomalies of the ADC that are manifested as unwanted radio responses in the system . When the energy of these quantization anomalies is spread over the signal band the anomalous energy comingles with the channel noise and becomes less of a mission concern. The relative power level of a dither signal in the independent signal paths is mission dependent.

The dither signal is derived by a digital algorithm so that the dither signal can be digitally removed from the digital image of the desired signal band in the signal processor . The algorithm is any step by step procedure for calculation that leads to a desired result. As used here the dither signal is known and can be removed by a digital process even though the signal appears random when applied to the spreading of anomalous energy.

The power divider will have loss that contributes directly to the system noise figure F but this loss can be very small and relatively insignificant because the dominant noise source in each signal path is from the ADC . Thus in almost every case a signal loss contribution of the power divider to Fcan be countered by a small increase in the gain of the low noise amplifier in each signal path. For this reason it is assumed herein that the power divider is lossless. Under this assumption the signal power delivered to each signal path is 1 p times the signal power delivered to the input of the power divider .

It is well known in the art that the noise figure of an amplifier is dependent on the impedance of the source driving the amplifier. Furthermore it is well known from amplifier noise theory and the Rothe Dahlke noise model used for amplifier noise analysis that a noise wave is launched backward out of the input port of an amplifier toward the source. The optimum source impedance which is the source impedance that minimizes the amplifier noise figure is the source impedance that exactly terminates the reverse traveling noise wave launched from the input of the amplifier. The use of a properly designed p way power divider does not change this condition for optimum source impedance.

Assuming that the amplifiers are identical in design and function the reverse launched noise waves will be uncorrelated and so will add in power. Furthermore within a properly designed power divider those skilled in the art will incorporate internal terminations which are designed to ensure that each of the p signal ports is isolated from all other signal ports e.g. p 1 by more than 20 dB when all p output ports and the input port are properly terminated . This insures that the reverse launched noise wave from one amplifier is isolated by more than 20 dB from the input ports of the other p 1 amplifiers. Thus the p reverse launched uncorrelated noise waves combine to create a reverse launched noise wave at an input port of the power divider that is equivalent in power magnitude to the reverse launched noise wave from one of the amplifiers .

The equivalent noise figure of the pChannel signal acquisition system will be minimized when this reverse launched noise wave is properly terminated at the input port of the power divider . However the optimum system source impedance must be determined by measurement for each pChannel system configuration in order to enhance the noise performance of the pChannel system . The noise impedance matching that minimizes the pChannel system noise figure Fsys is accomplished by tailoring the output impedance of the analog signal combiner . The signal is processed by the programmable logic signal processor which provides an output system that produces the digital image of the wide band analog input signal .

In an example is provided wherein the output digital signal of a p 12 pChannel radio with a single input signal is adjusted so that the ADCs are operating near full scale. The figure depicts an illustration of the relevant signals. The purpose of this measurement is to determine the anomalies added to an input signal by the pChannel digitization process. Those skilled in the art will understand that a process known as reciprocal mixing can occur in the ADCs . Reciprocal mixing causes clock phase noise and clock spurious responses to be added to each analog signal processed by the ADC .

However in order to observe these anomalies it is necessary to use a signal source that contains no anomalies that are larger than those attributable to the reciprocal mixing process. An unmodulated test signal with low phase noise is adjusted to a level approximately 2 dB below a full scale level of the ADC . The unmodulated test signal is independently measured to determine the test signal phase noise levels and the test signal spurious levels. After conversion to a digital signal by the pChannel process anomalous spurious responses were observed and anomalous phase noise was observed.

These anomalies were attributed to the clock signal source later verified by independent measurement of the clock signal. The dominant system noise with a test signal present near full scale is 144 dBFS 144 dB below full scale of the ADC in a 3 KHz bandwidth which establishes the system noise floor and minimum detectable signal for this p 12 pChannel system. The measurement results illustrated in provides guidance in interpreting the pChannel performance illustrated by two tone test results shown in .

The test illustrated in is known as a two tone test and is used to detect and characterize nonlinear properties of the pChannel system signal acquisition process. Of particular interest are third order nonlinearities since these nonlinearities produce anomalies that cannot be filtered out of the signal band.

When two input test tones are applied to the signal input third order distortion products or resultant tones are also observed in the digital output data. The spurious responses in and clock spurs in identified by the single tone test appear on each of the two tones in the two tone test. The phase noise on each of the two tones is greater than the phase noise on the single test tone in the single tone test. Furthermore the phase noise on the higher frequency tone of the two tones in is significantly greater than the phase noise on the lower frequency tone and also is responsible for the 9 dB increase in the pChannel system noise floor.

The third order distortion products or two resultant tones are produced by a process known as intermodulation distortion. The resultant tones are caused by an undesirable third order non linearity in the pChannel transfer function and are used to characterize this non linearity. Because the resultant tones are caused by a third order non linearity their amplitude increases 3 dB for each 1 dB increase in the level of the input two tone . It follows that there exists a hypothetical two tone input level at which the two tones and the resultant tones will be at the same amplitude.

This hypothetical input level is called the Third Order Intercept and is abbreviated as TOI . For comparison purposes the TOI is evaluated at the system input and has dimensions of power. The primary use of the TOI is to determine the expected level of distortion products at reasonable input levels and there is no expectation that the input level would ever reach the TOI.

The TOI is evaluated by using the three for one rule. First an intermodulation distortion ratio IMDR using a detection bandwidth if 3 kHz is measured in decibels and one half of this value is added to the two tone amplitude measured in decibels at the input port of the pChannel system which for the case illustrated in is 5 dBM. Thus the p 12 pChannel system system input TOI 118 2 5 54 dBM in a 3 kHz bandwidth.

A variation in the pChannel system signal processor architecture comprises replacing the power divider with a partitioned aperture having p equal aperture segments as illustrated in . The partitioned aperture may be accomplished by the White Nail architecture as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 420 522 or with any other partitioned aperture comprising p equal aperture segments. A White Nail air interface partitioned aperture is described in several patents including U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 420 522 and 7 250 920 which are incorporated herein by reference and is discussed in more detail hereinafter as a possible variation that inherently performs the function of the power divider .

In the partitioned aperture variation the signal partitioning function is managed by controlling the size of the smallest partition which in the case of a White Nail partitioned aperture is called an Epixel so that the largest signal levels in the mission environment do not overload the ADCs and so that the total aperture Eplane is large enough to capture a mission required minimum detectable signal. These conditions are satisfied when Equations 1 and 2 discussed hereinafter are satisfied.

Accordingly the present invention provides a procedure for optimizing the design of a pChannel radio by determining a fundamental limit on the number of parallel channels required to achieve a specified SFDR. The minimum number of channels has been designated as p and the processing system has been given the name pChannel .

In one embodiment energy associated with some spurious responses can be spread over a wide frequency range by adding out of band random energy to an input signal path of the ADC . Spreading spurious energy by this method reduces the effects of the spurious energy. The effect of the added random signal which is added into the signal path is described as whitening the spurious energy and the quantization noise of the ADCs so that the energy density is uniformly spread across the frequency band of interest.

The added random signal which is sometimes referred to herein as a dither signal comprises a pseudo random radio frequency signal that is generated and filtered by the digital signal generator so that the electromagnetic energy falls outside of the band of electromagnetic signals of interest but falls within the Nyquist band of the ADCs in each signal path . For example if the ADC sample rate is 100 Mega samples second then the Nyquist band is 50 MHz wide. If the signal band is less than 50 MHz then the dither signal would be inserted in a portion of the 50 MHz band that does not contain signal energy. It follows that the ADC sampling rate must be greater than twice the signal bandwidth in order to make room in the Nyquist frequency band for the dither signal. The purpose of this added dither signal is to randomize the sampling process of the ADC for signals of interest. The dither signal is removed by filtering in the digital signal processing steps of the signal processor that follow the process of the ADC .

Another embodiment is the development of fundamental performance limits that include a fundamental limit for the analog signal path minimum available gain G preceding the ADC in order to achieve a specified system noise figure F. The system noise figure determines the minimum detectable signal MDS when the MDS bandwidth is known.

A fundamental limit is determined on the complexity factor p which determines the minimum number of parallel channels necessary to achieve a specified system signal dynamic range. Per the present invention the minimum available gain required to achieve a specified system noise figure is 

P the available signal power of a sine wave at the output of a source feeding into the input of the ADC that just reaches full scale of the ADC quantizer and

The remaining two factors are physical constants and are left within the brackets so that the bracketed factor is dimensionless. The factors are 

The pChannel electromagnetic signal receiving system is configured as p parallel channels signal paths each comprising a minimum of the amplifier with available power gain Gfollowed by the ADC that creates a digital image of the analog signals in the signal path. The input signal is divided equally among the p channels by the power divider while the p digital images are combined in the processor in order to recover the digital image of analog input signal .

In accordance with the present invention a minimum acceptable value of p can be determined by the peak signal energy to be processed by the acquisition system which then sets the fundamental limit on a signal power dynamic range of the input signal .

The available gain GA of the amplifier can be determined by the MDS specification and can be calculated by Equation 1. The maximum input signal P is also amplified by Gthe same as the MDS and cannot exceed the full scale power of the ADC without destroying the integrity of the signal path . The fundamental limit on the minimum value for the complexity factor p is given by 

As referred to above two variations of the pChannel design are also provided herein. In this invention and in one variation the focus is on the pChannel signal acquisition system with high spurious free dynamic range comprising the signal paths . A single input port is partitioned by the power divider into p parallel equal amplitude channels each of which at least feeds a signal path with the amplifier having an available gain Gfollowed by the ADC that creates a digital image of the analog electromagnetic signals in the signal path .

The instantaneous bandwidth of the signal path is less than the Nyquist bandwidth of the ADC at least by an amount that allows a random dither signal to be inserted outside of the signal band but within the Nyquist bandwidth in order to whiten some spurious signals and quantization errors generated by the ADC process. The resulting p digital channels signal paths are combined in the signal processor to create the digital image of the analog input signal . In summary the pChannel acquisition system has a single wide band analog signal input port and a single digital output port and produces a digital image of the analog signal at the input port.

A second variation is based on the White Nail air interface as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 420 522 incorporated herein by reference. The White Nail interface inherently performs or implements the function of the power divider in the basic pChannel variation. Accordingly the White Nail air interface effectively comprises a power divider as the term is used herein.

The White Nail air interface comprises a large effective aperture A called an Eplane which is partitioned in checkerboard fashion into p small equal area partitions called Epixels each of which has an effective aperture of A A p. In this variation the fundamental limit on the signal channel gain as specified by Equation 1 is still valid.

However the fundamental complexity limit as expressed by p in Equation 2 is interpreted as the number of Epixel partitions in the White Nail Eplane. If it is assumed that a mission requirement specifies that the largest electromagnetic component of the signal energy incident on the Eplane has a power density of WWatts meterthen Pin Equation 2 should be interpreted as P A W. This is counter intuitive because Pis seen to represent the total large signal power summed across all Epixels in the Eplane and the magnitude of Pis only evident after all Epixel signals are combined in the signal processor into a single digital image.

Accordingly the Epixel signals from the Eplane are then processed by utilizing p signal paths as described herein. The Eplane may comprise a plurality of antenna elements with each antenna element providing an Epixel signal.

Detailed descriptions of the preferred embodiment are provided herein. It is to be understood however that the present invention may be embodied in various forms. In particular any partitioned aperture that has the same properties as the White Nail aperture may perform the same poer dividing function as the White Nail aperture. Therefore specific details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed system structure or manner.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

