---

title: System and method for providing location based one-to-one communication
abstract: A system for providing location based one-to-one text chat between users includes a server and a plurality of mobile communication devices that are equipped with GPS receivers and used by the users. The users identify themselves to each other using their respective visual descriptions. When located in a close proximity or a same facility, one user invites another user for a text chat. The chat session is terminated when one of the users leaves the facility or moves beyond certain distance from the other user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491130&OS=09491130&RS=09491130
owner: 
number: 09491130
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140808
---
This application claims the benefit and priority of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 863 667 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING LOCATION BASED ONE TO ONE COMMUNICATION filed Aug. 8 2013 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to a one to one wireless communication system and more particularly relates to a location based one to one wireless communication system. More particularly still the present disclosure relates to a location based one to one text chat system.

The popular smartphones have made wireless communication between people convenient and affordable. For example people can use their smartphones to make phone calls send E mails exchange Short Message Service SMS messages etc. Text messages are the most popular format of SMS messages. These styles of communication require that the two communicating parties know each other s identification information such as phone numbers. Technologies have been developed to allow anonymous people to engage in one to one communications. For the purpose of protecting privacy and personal safety the anonymous communication systems are designed to keep the participating parties anonymous to each other.

However in certain cases people desire to chat with each other when they do not know each other s identity and are located with a close proximity. For example two people sitting in the same Starbucks coffee store may desire to engage in a one to one text chat using their smartphones while they have the visual of each other but not the identification of each other.

Accordingly there is a need for a system and method for providing location based one to one text chat between anonymous persons who are in close proximity and have the visual of each other.

An object of this disclosure is to provide a one to one text chat system for persons within a close proximity 

An object of this disclosure is to provide a one to one text chat system for persons with the visual of each other 

An object of this disclosure is to provide a one to one text chat system for persons who provide their visual identification 

Other advantages of this disclosure will be clear to a person of ordinary skill in the art. It should be understood however that a system method or apparatus could practice the disclosure while not achieving all of the enumerated advantages and that the protected disclosure is defined by the claims.

Generally speaking pursuant to the various embodiments the present disclosure provides a system for providing location based one to one text chat between users. The system includes a server operatively coupled to a wide area network a database coupled to the server and a plurality of mobile communication devices. Each of the plurality of mobile communication devices includes a GPS receiver. The plurality of mobile communication devices communicate with the server over a wireless network and the wide area network. Users of the plurality of mobile communication devices identify themselves to each other using their respective visual descriptions. When located in a close proximity or a same facility one user invites another user for a text chat using their mobile communication devices. A server software application running on the server maintains a chat session for a chat between the two users. The chat session is terminated when one of the users leaves the facility or moves beyond certain distance from the other user.

This disclosure addresses a location based one to one or 1 1 for short communication system such as text chat systems shown in . Turning to the Figures and to in particular a simplified block diagram of a text chat system is shown and indicated at . The system includes two mobile communication devices and a wireless network with a radio tower such as a base station a plurality of communication satellites a wide area network a server and a database operatively coupled to the server . The server includes a processor a network interface and some amount of memory. The mobile communication devices or mobile devices for short can be for example smartphones and tablet computers as pictured in . iPhone and iPAD devices are popular smartphones and tablet computers currently available on the market.

Equipped with Global Positioning System GPS receivers the devices receive satellite signals from three or more satellites . Based on for example the differences of arrival times of the satellite signals a GPS software program running on the devices determines the GPS locations of the respective mobile devices. A GPS location usually includes a latitude and a longitude. Over the wireless cellular network and the wide area network such as the Internet the devices send their respective GPS locations to the server which determines whether the two devices are in a very close proximity such as thirty feet. Alternatively the server determines whether the two devices are in a same facility such as a Starbucks coffee store McDonald restaurant or a community library. The proximity between the devices and indicates the proximity between their respective users and . The GPS locations of the devices indicate the physical locations of the users respectively.

Where the devices and are in the same facility the server provides the information of the user to the user and vice versa. Usually the users and do not know each other or at least one of them does not know the other party. As used herein knowing a person means knowing his name address job a person of his family or something else. To allow the users who do not know each other to engage in a 1 1 text chat using the devices the system requires the users to provide a visual description of themselves. A visual description also referred to herein as visual identification of a person can be a description of where he sits what he wears what he looks like his physical features etc. For example the red cap guy by the door I m the girl with long black hair next to the window Hair colour Brown Eye colour Blue Height 6 feet Blue jeans red T shirt brunette and blue baseball cap and yellow jacket are illustrative visual identifications.

When the user desires to have a 1 1 chat with the user the user sends an invitation or greeting to the user for a chat such as a text chat using the devices . The invitation includes a visual identification of the user . Alternatively the visual identification of the user and other users in the same facility or a close range is provided to the user once the user signs into the system . Based on the visual identification of the user the user identifies the user and determines whether to chat with the user or not. The user may rejects or accepts the invitation. Where he accepts the invitation he sends a message back to the user and starts the chatting. Accordingly a chatting session is created. The server may maintain and track the chat session in order to receive and forwarding messages between the users and .

In one implementation the chatting messages are text messages. In a further implementation a chatting message may include photographs sound voice video or other formats of media. Additionally a user may engage in multiple chatting sessions at the same time. A chatting session between the users and can be terminated by a number of methods. For example when the user walks out the facility the chatting session is automatically terminated. As an additional example the user may proactively terminates the session by pressing a software button of the chatting software application running on the device . As a further example still the server may terminate the session when there is no message exchange between the users for a predetermined amount of time such as thirty minutes.

Referring to an alternate location based 1 1 communication system is shown. The system includes a wireless network access point such as a WiFi router. Over the WiFi network empowered by the access point the devices communicate with the server .

Referring now to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which using the device the user logs in the system and provides his visual identification to the server is shown and indicated at . A mobile software application running on the device and a server software application running on the server allow the user to log in the system and provide his visual identification. The mobile software application can be a web browser or a proprietary software application. In one implementation the mobile software application is a software program written in Objective C computer programming language. The mobile software application runs in iOS operating system within iPhone smartphones. Additionally the mobile software application is deployed in Apple Inc. s App Store for people to download and install.

Moreover in this illustrative implementation the server software application is written in PHP 5.0 computer programming language. Additionally the server software application provides one or more web services to be accessed and called by the mobile software application. The server software application utilizes Push Notification technology a push technology developed by Apple Inc. to communicate with the mobile software application. The underlying communication protocol between the mobile software application and the server software application in the illustrative implementation is Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP .

In one implementation the mobile software application allows the users to register with the system . During the registration process the users provide their profile information such as name and address and create their user name such Email address and password. A sample display of the registration screen is shown in and a sample display of the profile creation screen is shown in . The profile of a user indicates a visual identification of the user. The registration may also display a Terms of Use form of the system . The users then have to confirm their acceptance of the Terms of Use to continue with the registration process. In a further implementation the users are shown with one or more payment options such as 9.99 month or 99.99 year for using the service provided by the system . Once the users select an option they are required to enter their payment information such as credit card number. Additionally during the registration process a unique user identifier is assigned to each of the users .

Each time the users use the system they may be required to log in first. The login screen presents user name and password fields for the users to entered their login credentials. A sample display of the login screen is shown in . At after the user enters his user name and password collectively referred to herein as login input and login credentials and presses a login button the mobile software application retrieves the login input. At the mobile software application sends the login input to the server software application by for example accessing a web service provided by the server software application.

At the server software application receives the login input authenticates the login credential and authorizes the user to access the system . When the authentication and or authorization fails the user may be give a number of retries. When the authentication and authorization are successful at the server software application sends a confirmation to the mobile software application. Thereafter using the mobile software application the user enters his visual identification using for example the screen of . At the mobile software application retrieves the visual identification entered by the user . At the mobile software application sends the visual identification to the server software application. At the server software application retrieves the visual identification and stores it in the database . In one implementation the database is relational database such as a MySQL or Oracle database. The server software application may optionally maintain a copy of the visual identification in memory for quick access.

In a further implementation at the server software application sends the visual identifications of users in the same facility as or close to the user . At the mobile software application displays the visual identifications of the nearby users on a screen of the device . A sample screen of the displayed nearby users is shown in . In three illustrative visual identifications and indicating three users are shown. It should be noted that the user is allowed to update his visual identification anytime he chooses. For example the user wears different clothing on two different days. As an additional example when he leaves a Starbucks coffee store and enters into a local bar his visual identification regarding where he sits will be different. Accordingly using the mobile software application he enters a different visual description about himself. At the mobile software application retrieves the updated visual identification. At the mobile software application sends the updated visual identification to the server software application. At the server software application retrieves the updated visual identification and stores it in the database and or memory. In a different embodiment the visual identification is maintained only in memory not in the database .

Turning to a process by which the mobile device provides the GPS location of the user to the system is shown and indicated at . In one implementation the mobile software application periodically queries the GPS location of the device . In a more efficient way the mobile software application registers a GPS location listener with the underlying GPS system and or operating system such iOS of the device . Whenever the GPS location of the device is changed the mobile software application is notified of the new GPS location. To further optimize the system efficiency and performance the mobile software application specifies a measurable distance threshold of GPS location change for the GPS location change notifications. For example where the distance threshold is forty feet the mobile software application is notified of a new GPS location only if new GPS location is forty feet or more from the previously notified GPS location. To provide an initial GPS location the mobile software application can be notified of a GPS location when the listener is registered. Moreover the mobile software application may query the GPS system of the device when the user logs in updates his visual identification etc.

At the mobile software application obtains and retrieves a GPS location. In a further implementation the user types in a facility description of the place or facility where he is currently at. The facility description includes one or more keywords indicating the type or other characteristics of the facility. For example he may enter restaurant or library. At the mobile software application retrieves the facility description. At the mobile software application sends the GPS location and optionally the facility description to the server software application. At the server software application maps the GPS location and the facility description keywords if provided to a specific facility such as a Starbucks coffee store. In one implementation the mapping is performed by calling Google Places APIs Application Programming Interfaces a screenshot of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety. At the server software application sets the current location of the user to the facility or establishment mapped to from the GPS location.

Alternatively the server software application provides a list of facilities that are in a close proximity of the GPS location to the mobile software application which displays the list to the user . A sample display of the list of facilities screen is shown in . Upon selection of one facility in the list the details of the selected facility are displayed to the user . A sample display of the facility details screen is shown in . The details screen provides a Map button clicking of which causes a map to be displayed on the mobile device . A sample display of the map screen is shown in .

Referring to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which a location based one to one text chat session is initiated and set up. At based on the current locations of the users the server software application running on the server determines that the mobile devices are at the same facility. In one implementation such determination is based on the facilities where the users are currently located. Alternatively such determination is based on the physical distance between the current GPS locations of the users . When the server software application determines that the users are at the same facility at the server software application sends the visual identification of the user to the device . Similarly at the server software application sends the visual identification of the user to the device .

The mobile software application running on the mobile device retrieves the visual identification of the user and other users of the system . The mobile software application displays the list of visual identifications on the user . Sample displays of the visual identifications are shown in which allow the users and to select someone to chat with based on her his visual identification. To associate each visual identification to a specific user the user identifier of the user is also sent at . When the user chooses one visual identification of for example the user . At the mobile software application selects the user by his user identifier. At the mobile software application sends an invitation for a 1 1 text chat. The invitation is associated with the user identifiers of the users and . At the server software application determines that the target device is the device . Moreover at the server software application performs a policy check to determine whether a 1 1 text chat between the users should be allowed. The policy check can also be performed before elements and are performed. The creation of the policy is further illustrated by reference to .

Turning now when a user such as the user desires not to chat with another user such as the user anymore he selects the user and presses a button of the mobile software application. Consequently at the mobile software application retrieves the request. At the mobile software application sends the request to the server . The request is associated with the user identifiers of the users . At the server software application retrieves the request. At the server software application creates a policy in response to the request. For example the policy is represented by a data structure that includes the user identifiers of the users the type of the policy duration of the policy etc.

Turning back to for example if the user has indicated that he does not want to chat with the user forever or for a specified amount of time the invitation sent at should be denied and a notification may be sent to the user . Where the user is allowed to chat with the user at using Push Notification technology the server software application sends the invitation to the device . At the mobile software application running on the device retrieves the invitation and notifies the user of the invitation. In one implementation the user presses the notification on the touch screen of the device . Accordingly the invitation is displayed on the device as for example a notification message or a graphical indicator. Alternatively a sound is played to indicate the invitation. Moreover the visual identification of the user is also displayed to the user .

The user can accept or refuse the invitation. At the mobile software application sends the acceptance or refusal to the server . At the server software application determines the target device of the acceptance or refusal. If the user has accepted the invitation the server software application creates a chat session for the users and . The chat session is associated with the user identifiers of the users . Additionally a no activity timeout may be associated with the chat session. At the server software application forwards the acceptance or refusal to the device . At the mobile software application running on the device receives the acceptance or refusal and indicates the acceptance or refusal on a display screen of the device . Alternatively the user inquiries about the visual identification before she he accepts the invitation from the user . The user then provides her his visual identification. The alternative process is further illustrated in .

When the invitation is accepted the user then starts to chat with the user . The 1 1 text chat is further illustrated by reference to . Referring to the user enters a text message in the mobile software application. At the mobile software application retrieves the message. When the user presses a button to send the message at the mobile software application sends the message to the server . It should be noted that the message is associated with user identifiers of the users . At the server software application determines the target device for the message. Additionally at the server software application may perform a policy check to determine whether to forward the message to the device . For example the user may have indicated to the server that he no longer wants to chat with the user . If forwarding the message is not allowed the server software application sends a notification to the device . Otherwise at the server software application forwards the message to the device . At the mobile software application retrieves the message and displays it on the screen of the device to the user .

When the user types a reply message at the mobile software application running on the device retrieves the reply message. The reply message is associated with the user identifiers of the users . At the mobile software application sends the reply message to the server . At the server software application retrieves the reply message and determines the target device for the reply message. At the server software application forwards the reply message to the device . At the mobile software application retrieves the reply message and displays the reply message on the screen of the device to the user . It should be noted that at and the server software application further determines whether a chat session between the devices and exist. If there is not a valid and live chat session the messages are not forwarded to the target devices. A sample display of the text chat screen is shown in .

Referring to a flowchart depicting a process by which a location based one to one text chat session between the users and is terminated. When the user leaves the facility where he chats with the user the mobile software application running on the device sends a new GPS location to the server . At the server software application retrieves the GPS location. At the server software application maps the GPS location to a new facility. However it is possible that the GPS location is not mapped to a known facility. In such a case the GPS is said to be mapped to an unknown facility.

At the server software application determines whether the new facility is same as the present facility where the user is leaving from. If so at the server software application performs other task. Otherwise at the server software application checks whether the user is currently chatting with another user. In other words the server software application checks whether the user is currently in a chat session. If so at the server software application terminates the current chat session. At the server software application notifies the participating parties of the session by sending notification message to them. Turning back to if the user is not currently chatting at the server software application performs other tasks.

Additionally the chat session can be terminated by either of the users with a press of a button of the mobile software application. Furthermore the chat session can be terminated when there is no message exchange between the users for certain amount of time such as twenty five 25 minutes.

Obviously many additional modifications and variations of the present disclosure are possible in light of the above teachings. Thus it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the disclosure may be practiced otherwise than is specifically described above. For example the functions of the server can be performed by more than one physical server. The more than one server can be distributed in multiple physical locations. As a further example the database stores facilities and their corresponding GPS locations. Accordingly the server software application maps a GPS location to a facility using data stored in the database .

Moreover the systems and support multiple chat sessions for each user. The mobile software application allows each of the users to view the list of his live text chat sessions as shown in . Additionally the mobile software application allows each of the users to view the list of users at a certain facility or location as shown in . Furthermore the mobile software application allows each of the users to view various types of information such as About Us and Terms Condition and make changes to his settings as shown in .

The foregoing description of the disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise form disclosed. The description was selected to best explain the principles of the present teachings and practical application of these principles to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the disclosure in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure not be limited by the specification but be defined by the claims set forth below. In addition although narrow claims may be presented below it should be recognized that the scope of this invention is much broader than presented by the claim s . It is intended that broader claims will be submitted in one or more applications that claim the benefit of priority from this application. Insofar as the description above and the accompanying drawings disclose additional subject matter that is not within the scope of the claim or claims below the additional inventions are not dedicated to the public and the right to file one or more applications to claim such additional inventions is reserved.

