---

title: Method and apparatus for providing mobile device information through a computing device
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for a service system capable of providing, to a computing device, mobile device information received from a mobile device, the mobile device being associated with a user of the computing device, are described herein. In one embodiment, the mobile device, service system, and computing device may each be separate and distinct from the others. In various embodiments, the client device may facilitate a user in viewing and/or interacting with the provided mobile device information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560500&OS=09560500&RS=09560500
owner: Dashwire, Inc.
number: 09560500
owner_city: Xindian
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140523
---
This application is a Continuation of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 869 563 filed on Oct. 9 2007 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING MOBILE DEVICE INFORMATION THROUGH A COMPUTING DEVICE which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 828 919 entitled Mobile Phone Interacting Method and Apparatus filed on Oct. 10 2006. The specifications of the 60 828 919 provisional application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 869 563 are hereby fully incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to mobile devices and services. More specifically the embodiments relate to a service for providing access to and interaction with mobile device information from a computing device.

Wireless phones have a variety of functionalities that customers can interact with. Such functionalities include making phone calls sending messages accessing call history browsing network content and taking and viewing photos and videos. On some smartphone devices mini PCs in the form of a phone there are thousands of applications and services that enable new functionalities.

Wireless phones are typically designed for mobile usage and therefore have a small form factor including small display screens small keypads typically access to only one function at a time and so forth.

Many phones today are capable of syncing with a PC and or server to transfer personal information management PIM content email calendar contacts tasks and in some cases photos and music while connected via USB or wireless connection for storage on the PC.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to methods and apparatuses for a service system capable of providing to a computing device mobile device information received from a mobile device the mobile device being associated with a user of the computing device. In some embodiments the mobile device service system and computing device may each be separate and distinct from the others. The service system may also receive an indication from the computing device of a user interaction. In response the service system may update the mobile device information perform an action on behalf of the mobile device or direct the mobile device to perform the action. In various embodiments the client device may facilitate a user in viewing and or interacting with the provided mobile device information. The client device may further receive one or more user interactions and provide service system with an indication of the interaction s .

Various aspects of the illustrative embodiments will be described using terms commonly employed by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that alternate embodiments may be practiced with only some of the described aspects. For purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the illustrative embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that alternate embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known features are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative embodiments.

Further various operations will be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the illustrative embodiments however the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations need not be performed in the order of presentation.

The phrase in one embodiment is used repeatedly. The phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. The terms comprising having and including are synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise. The phrase A B means A or B . The phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . The phrase at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . The phrase A B means B or A B that is A is optional.

In various embodiments the updates and actions may be the result of interactions with the mobile device information by a user of computing device . As shown service may provide the received mobile device information to computing device via networking fabric to enable a user of computing device to view and or interact with the mobile device information. In one embodiment the user may be associated with a mobile device and service may require authentication of the user before providing the mobile device information of the user associated mobile device . Service may then receive one or more indications of user interaction with the mobile device information from computing device . In response service may update the mobile device information perform an action on behalf of the mobile device or direct the mobile device to perform the action. In various embodiments networking fabric may be the same in totality or in part as networking fabric .

In some embodiments computing device may include logic capable of receiving the mobile device information facilitating the user in viewing and or interacting with the information receiving one or more user interactions and providing an indication of the interaction s to service . In one embodiment logic may be a plug in to a browser application of computing device .

As illustrated mobile devices may be any sort of mobile devices known in the art except for mobile device client . Mobile devices may be wireless mobile phones personal digital assistants PDA palm computers or media players. Such mobile devices may have a small form factor and a reduced set of inputs in some embodiments. Also mobile devices may have one or more wired wireless infrared etc. networking interfaces to facilitate communication with service system via networking fabric . In other words networking fabric may comprise a wired wireless or infrared based access point and the fabric may comprise wired wireless and or infrared segments domains.

As mention above each mobile device may include or receive mobile device client which may be any single or multi threaded client application. Mobile device clients may be received from service via networking fabric or may come installed with other applications of mobile device . In some embodiments mobile device client may be provided in response to a mobile device user registering for a service. In one embodiment mobile device client may include an application programming interface API with a plurality of functions callable by service . Mobile device client may also include logic to periodically provide mobile device information such as emails messages a call history photos music videos a calendar and mobile device settings to service . In one embodiment logic of mobile device client may monitor for changes to mobile device information such as a new email sent by mobile device and may provide in response updated mobile device information to service . Also in such an embodiment the logic may simply provide information indicate of the changes such as the adding of a new contact rather than re providing all mobile device information each time any part of it is updated. In some embodiments mobile device client may provide the mobile device information in real time or in batches.

In various embodiments the API of mobile device client may be configured to hook into native APIs of mobile device . For example the API of mobile device client may include a callable function capable of causing a text message to be sent. That callable function may in turn call an API function of a native text messaging application of mobile device . Also the API of mobile device client may comprise modules corresponding to native applications and or features of mobile device such as Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messages calls photos videos contacts files events voicemail lists ring tones themes speed dial alarm clock music phone settings battery life and third party components among many others. In some embodiments service may direct mobile device to perform an action by calling a function of the API of mobile device client . Such actions may include initiating a call such as a Voice over IP VoIP call sending an email posting a photo or video for sharing sending a text message or changing a mobile device setting. In further embodiments service may also notify mobile device client that the mobile device information has been updated or that service has performed an action on behalf of mobile device and such notification may be provided by calling a function of the API of mobile device client .

In some embodiments service may store a variety of mobile device clients each mobile device client customized for a different mobile device platform. For example mobile device client may be customized for a Windows mobile platform a Symbian platform a J2ME platform a BREW platform or a Linux platform among many others.

As illustrated service system may include one or more of any single or multi processor or processor core central processing unit CPU computing system and computing device may be any single or multi processor or processor core central processing unit CPU computing system. Service System may include and computing device may be a personal computer PC a workstation a server a router a mainframe a modular computer within a blade server or high density server a personal digital assistant PDA an entertainment center a set top box or a mobile device. Also each computer system of service system and computing device may each be capable of operating a plurality of operating systems OS in a plurality of virtual machines VM using virtualization technologies. An exemplary single multi processor or processor core computing system of each of service system and computing device is illustrated by and is described in greater detail below. Hereinafter including in the claims processor and processor core shall be used interchangeable with each term including the other.

As is further shown mobile devices and service system may be connected by a networking fabric and service system and computing device may be connected by a networking fabric . In one embodiment networking fabric and networking fabric as described earlier may be the same partially the same or a different networking fabric. Networking fabric and networking fabric may each be any sort of networking fabric known in the art such as one or more of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a Wi Fi network a personal area network PAN and the Internet. In various embodiments one or both of networking fabrics and may comprise private network s of enterprise s . The parties to the connections here mobile devices service system and computing devices may further use any communication protocol known in the art such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and any transport protocol known in the art such as the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols. As mentioned each of mobile devices service system and computing devices may have at least one networking interface to facilitate networked communication across either or both of networking fabric and .

As illustrated and described above service system may include service which may be any single or multi threaded service application and may be capable of simultaneously serving multiple mobile devices and computing devices . In some embodiments service may comprise a plurality of servers such as one or more web servers a push server for providing notifications updates a proxy server for receiving mobile device information and notifications and one or more application servers such as a messaging server to perform actions on behalf of mobile devices .

In various embodiments service may facilitate users having mobile devices in registering for services provided by service system through service . Service may ask users for a login name and a password as well as other information useful for authentication and may store the information in database . Service may also ask users for information regarding mobile devices . In some embodiments mobile devices may have come with mobile device clients preinstalled and service may use the phone information received from the user to recognize and or activate the mobile devices . In other embodiments upon registering and providing phone information service may provide a mobile device client to the mobile device corresponding to the phone information. In such embodiments the mobile device client may be provided to the mobile device via the networking fabric . And as mentioned above mobile device client may be targeted for mobile device s platform.

As mentioned above service may automatically receive mobile device information from mobile device clients either in real time or in batches reflecting changes or additions to mobile device information. Upon receiving mobile device information from a mobile device client service may store the information in database .

In various embodiments when a registered user desires to view and or interact with mobile device information of the user s mobile device the user may authenticate with service which may require authentication before providing mobile device information. Service may present an authentication web page to a user browsing on a computing device to facilitate the user in authenticating. The web page may include for example text input fields for a login name and a password as well as a submit button. Service may then receive a login name and password submitted by the user and may compare that information to a login name and password stored in database . If the comparison does not indicate a match service may notify the user of an authentication failure.

If the comparison does indicate a match however service may proceed and provide a customized web page or other display including the mobile device information to the computing device of the authenticated user. In some embodiments the customized web page or other display may provide the mobile device information in a format comprehensible by logic or a browser application of the computing device to enable the computing device to display the mobile device information to the user for the user to view and or interact with. For example the provided web page displayed may be a Hypertext Markup Language HTML an Extensible Markup Language XML and or a JavaScript document.

In various embodiments service may receive from computing device an indication of one or more user interactions with the provided mobile device information. The indication may also comprise an HTML or XML document but may have any format known in the art. Further the interactions conveyed by the indication may be one or more of an update to the mobile device information or a request for the performance of an action by or on behalf of mobile device .

If the interaction s include an update to the mobile device information such as a change of a phone setting or a new contact service may store the updated mobile device information in database and notify mobile device of the update in one embodiment by calling functions of the above described mobile device client API. If the interaction s include a request for the performance of an action by or on behalf of mobile device service may either perform the action on behalf of mobile device or may direct mobile device to perform the action. In one embodiment service may direct mobile device to perform the action if mobile device is reachable via networking fabric or may perform the action itself on behalf of mobile device if mobile device is unreachable. In such embodiments service may direct mobile device to perform the action by calling functions of the mobile device client API as described above. Service may perform the action on behalf of mobile device via application servers of service . For example if the action is the sending of a text message service may send the text message via a messaging application server of service . Service may then notify mobile device of the performance of the action on its behalf by calling a function of the mobile device client API in one embodiment causing the mobile device to believe that mobile device rather than service performed the action.

As is shown service system may include database and database may be any sort of database known in the art except for its internal structuring e.g. tables and data. Database may be a relational database a normalized database a de normalized database or a file. In various embodiments database may store versions of mobile device client targeted to a number of mobile device platforms as described above. Database may further store mobile device information for each mobile device as well as associated authentication information such as a login name and a password which may be used by service to authenticate users of computing devices .

In various embodiments as mentioned above a computing device may include logic . Logic may comprise any sort of single or multi thread application and as mentioned above may be implemented as a plug in to a computing device browser such as a plug in to a Mozilla Firefox browser or as Active X component s . In other embodiments logic may instead be implemented as a separate stand alone program invocable by a user. In yet other embodiments computing device may not include logic and the browser application may serve as the point of interaction between service and the user.

In some embodiments computing device may facilitate a user in authenticating with service as described above in greater detail. Upon authentication of the user computing device may receive mobile device information and may in response render a visual display of the mobile device information. Such an exemplary display is illustrated by and is described in greater detail below. As shown in the display may comprise a dashboard like layout having regions of the display associated with categories of mobile device information. Each region may comprise a content and or functionality module. In one embodiment the regions modules may be added removed or rearranged by the user. In some embodiments modules for viewing managing and using one or more of SMS MMS messages calls photos videos contacts files events voicemail lists ring tones themes speed dial alarm clock music phone settings rules battery life and or third party components may be included in the rendered display. The modules may also include a system module for handling communication with service . In some embodiments the rendered display may differ from that provided by mobile device .

In various embodiments the modules may facilitate the user in viewing and interacting with the rendered mobile device information. For example the modules may facilitate the user in viewing SMS MMS inbox content sending responses or create new SMS MMS messages saving mobile device sent or received messages locally to computing device viewing call history making VoIP calls seeing photos and videos taken by mobile device posting photos and videos to sharing sites and setting rules preferences settings of mobile device . To provide facilities for such interactions the modules may include form elements and other graphic elements capable of receiving and registering user input s . In other embodiments one or more of the modules may simply display mobile device information and may provide a control whose actuation results in the opening of a new input display window. Upon receiving and registering user interaction s logic may provide an indication of the interactions to service .

In some embodiments users who communicate with one another via call or message and who also use service have the option to have information presented to their contacts automatically like what kind of phone they have how they have personalized it thru service what type of phones their friends are using new media they have captured and purchases they have made. Users may effectuate this option through one or more settings of mobile device associated with the automatic presentation of information to contacts.

In various embodiments the service system may then require authentication of a user of a computing device before providing the mobile device information to the computing device block . The service system and computing device may be separate and distinct from each other. And in some embodiments the user may be associated with the mobile device. Upon receiving authentication the service system may provide the mobile device information to the computing device to facilitate the user in viewing and or interacting with the mobile device information block .

As is further shown the service system may then receive from the computing device an indication of one or more user interactions with the mobile device information block . In response the service system may update the mobile device information block perform an action on behalf of the mobile device block or direct the mobile device to perform the action block . In one embodiment the action is one or more of initiating a Voice over IP VoIP call sending an email posting a photo or video for sharing sending a text message or changing a mobile device setting. In some embodiments the service system may then notify the mobile device of the updated mobile device information or the performed action block . The service system may then receive in response updated mobile device information from the mobile device block .

Each of these elements performs its conventional functions known in the art. In particular system memory and mass storage may be employed to store a working copy and a permanent copy of the programming instructions implementing at least a portion of one of the various components such as service or logic herein collectively denoted as . The various components may be implemented by assembler instructions supported by processor s or high level languages such as for example C that can be compiled into such instructions.

The permanent copy of the programming instructions may be placed into permanent storage in the factory or in the field through for example a distribution medium not shown such as a compact disc CD or through communication interface from a distribution server not shown . That is one or more distribution media having an implementation of the agent program may be employed to distribute the agent and program various computing devices.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that the embodiments of the present invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

