---

title: Head mounted display with remote control
abstract: A head mounted display device that displays three dimensional images from a mobile device, which includes a strap that secures the head mounted display to the head of a viewer, a viewing assembly connected to the strap, that includes a housing, a mobile device holder, connected to the housing, a reflecting surface, connected to the housing, that reflects images displayed by the mobile device; and an eyepiece onto which the reflecting surface reflects the images.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09459457&OS=09459457&RS=09459457
owner: SEEBRIGHT INC.
number: 09459457
owner_city: Santa Cruz
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140210
---
The present invention relates generally to head mounted displays and particularly to a head mounted display that projects a stereoscopic image from an attached mobile electronics device onto an eyepiece which gives the effect of a virtual image superimposed on the real world.

Three dimensional images 3D are increasingly used to display vivid images in movies electronic games and in other applications. For example 3D movies are displayed in theatres and are viewed by persons equipped with special 3D glasses. Additionally 3D movies and electronic games may be displayed on specially equipped televisions or computer displays for viewing by persons equipped with special 3D glasses.

The basic approach to displaying 3D images is to display two slightly offset images separately to the left and right eye. The two principal strategies have been used to accomplish this are 1 for the viewer to wear a special 3D eyepiece that filters each offset image to a different eye and 2 to split the light source directionally into each of the viewer s eyes thus eliminating the need for special glasses.

One increasingly common approach to projecting stereoscopic image pairs is a head mounted display system that mounts to a person s head and that displays a virtual image on an attached eyepiece. Head mounted displays are often used in simulators or for games though they can also be used to view media such as movies or digital photos.

A portable or mobile electronics device referred to hereinbelow as a mobile device such as a smartphone is capable of generating and displaying a stereoscopic or 3D movie or image that when projected onto an eyepiece appears to a viewer to have depth i.e. three dimensions. This approach offers a low cost mobile solution to viewing 3D images since mobile electronics devices such as smartphones are widespread and relatively inexpensive. Therefore it would be desirable to able to attach a mobile device to a head mounted display that properly displays 3D images or movies on an attached eyepiece.

Such a device could also be used to view traditional 2D media including images photos and web content in the form of a virtual display in front of the viewer. This would be desirable because of the relative size and comfortable position of the virtual display as compared to a laptop or small screen device.

Prior art head mounted displays typically mount over a person s face in such a way that facial features are not visible. Thus when a person is speaking to or looking at another person wearing a prior art head mounted display they are unable to see the person s face. The lack of visual cues provided by facial features makes such human interactions somewhat unnatural.

Therefore it would be advantageous if the front portion of a head mounted display would rest above the eyebrows leaving the face of the person wearing the device substantially unobstructed so that a person looking at someone wearing such a device could see his her facial features.

Another disadvantage of prior art head mounted displays is that they support a fairly narrow range of interpupilary distances. Thus it would be advantageous to provide a head mounted display that accommodated a wide range of interpupilary distances.

The present invention discloses a head mounted display that includes a frame that fits around the head of a viewer an optical assembly that secures a mobile device and projects a three dimensional 3D image displayed by the mobile device onto an eyepiece that is also attached to the frame. The image displayed may also be flat or two dimensional if the image delivered to both eyes is identical. The 3D image may be moving or still. Further the eyepiece may be partially transparent which has the effect of superimposing the 3D image on the real world as seen through the eyepiece. Alternatively the eyepiece may be opaque in which case the experience for the viewer is considered to be immersive.

In one embodiment the head mounted display includes remote that a viewer wearing the head mounted display uses to activate functions on the mobile device. In one embodiment the remote control has an LED or other means of illumination and can act as a marker to identify the position with a display area projected onto the eyepiece from the mobile device. In certain embodiments the remote control includes sensors that provide data to the mobile device that can be used to compute the absolute position of the remote control. The remote control includes a number of controls including a joystick and one or more buttons or other controls. The remote control may be attached to the housing of the head mounted display or can be detached and held in the hand of the viewer.

In one embodiment the subject invention is a head mounted display that displays three dimensional images from a mobile device and includes a strap that secures the head mounted display to the head of a viewer a viewing assembly connected to the strap that includes a housing a mobile device holder connected to the housing a reflecting surface connected to the housing that reflects images displayed by the mobile device and an eyepiece connected to the housing onto which the reflecting surface reflects the images.

In yet another embodiment the subject invention is a head mounted display device for displaying images from a mobile device that includes a housing that secures an inserted mobile device which fits on the head of a human viewer the mobile device comprising a forward facing side with a display and a backward facing side a reflecting surface connected to the housing that reflects images displayed by the mobile device a lens connected to the housing that focuses images reflected by the reflecting surface an eyepiece connected to the housing onto which the images from the lens focus for display to the viewer and a remote control that includes a plurality of controls operable by the viewer and a wireless transceiver for communicating with the inserted mobile device.

The invention will be more completely understood through the following detailed description which should be read in conjunction with the attached drawings. Detailed embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the invention in virtually any appropriately detailed embodiment.

Three dimensional also referred to as 3D image means a digital image which when projected onto a display such as an eyepiece in the present invention or onto a television or movie screen gives an illusion of depth i.e. the 3D image enhances the viewers depth perception. One approach to 3D imagery uses a technique referred to as stereoscopy or stereoscopics in which two images each recorded from a slightly different perspective are presented separately to the left and right eye of the viewer. These two dimensional images are then combined by the viewer s brain to generate a single stereoscopic or stereographic image that gives the perception of depth.

Mobile device as used herein refers to an intelligent portable device that runs computer programs and has an integrated display capable of displaying digital images. Typical examples include smartphones such as the IPHONE from Apple Computer and the GALAXY from the Samsung Electronics Co. Other examples include inter alia pad computers portable computers personal digital assistants and electronic game consoles. Although mobile device typically provide telephonic and or Internet access a mobile device as referred to herein does not necessarily provide such communications. Typically a mobile device includes a processor storage for programs and data a telephonic and data communications a wireless transceiver and possibly near field communications capability. The term mobile device as used herein may refer to a commercially available smartphone such as the IPHONE or it may refer to a custom designed and manufactured device that is integrated with the subject invention.

Eyepiece means a reflective surface either planar or convex placed near the eye that reflects light to and from the eye of person using the subject invention. An eyepiece is typically constructed of a transparent or partially transparent material such as glass or plastic although it may also be opaque. An eyepiece may consist of two elements i.e. one for each eye or of a single element. If an image is projected onto an opaque eyepiece then the viewing experience is said to be immersive. In the context of the present invention an eyepiece typically does not perform an optical transformation as is done by lens for corrective glasses which correct for vision defects. However in some cases an eyepiece used in the present invention might be combined with an optical lens for optical correction or for other purposes.

Half silvered An eyepiece mirror or other optical element may be half silvered. A half silvered mirror or element refers to a volume of glass or plastic with a transparently thin coating of metal such as aluminum or another substance that enables part of incident light to be transmitted and part to be reflected. It is understood that the coating will absorb part of the light. While the term half silvered generally suggests that approximately 50 of light is transmitted and 50 is reflected as used herein the term refers other ratios as well. The term full silvered is used to refer to an eyepiece or other optical element that reflects substantially all incident light typically at least 90 . Other methods may be used to achieve the same result including refractive optics.

Optical assembly as used herein refers to a number of optical elements placed in a fixed relationship between the eye of a viewer using the subject invention and a digital device such as a mobile phone digital camera or other digital device that emits or captures images. An optical assembly may include mirrors lenses prisms beam splitters and the like.

Strap must be both comfortable and sufficiently sturdy to prevent HMD from slipping or tilting downwards or laterally. For example plastic ratchet straps may be used. Most preferably the strap is user adjustable.

In a preferred embodiment eyepiece consists as indicated below in of two separate elements that are attached to viewing assembly . In another embodiment eyepiece may take the form of a single element.

Mobile device holder holds mobile device securely such that mobile device is prevented from slipping or falling out when the viewer moves his her head. Mobile device holder enables a viewer to easily insert and withdraw mobile device . For example in one embodiment mobile device slides into a slot and snaps into place. Mobile device holder is described in further detail hereinbelow with reference to .

Although not show in the figures viewing assembly and housing may include suitably placed holes and clips for peripheral cables such as speaker and microphone cables to easily attach to mobile device .

Reflecting surface comprises two spherical or parabolic surfaces as depicted in such as mirrors that are shaped and angled to reflect light emanating from mobile device onto a respective side of eyepiece . In one embodiment reflecting surface is formed of two rectangular convex mirrors consisting of a right side mirror that reflects light from an image displayed on the right side of mobile device onto a right side of eyepiece and a left side mirror that reflects light from an image displayed on the left side of mobile device onto the left side of eyepiece . The shape of reflecting surface is optimized to display images that display on mobile device onto eyepiece . Reflecting surface may take on a variety of shapes including rectangular and trapezoidal. Further reflecting surface may formed from a variety of materials including glass plastic and metal.

In one embodiment housing includes an optical block that blocks light from crossing from one side to another and prevents crossover interference which is when one eye sees the image intended for another eye. Optical block is a nontransparent typically dark substance such as plastic that is placed between the two sides of reflecting surface .

In one embodiment housing is fabricated using an injection molded lightweight structure such as plastic or metal alloy. In one embodiment housing is a single continuous piece of material such as molded plastic. In another embodiment one or more of the components of housing are separate pieces that are securely attached or bonded together.

In both housing includes a downward extension referred to as arm to which eyepiece attaches. In one embodiment illustrated in eyepiece is secured to arm by pressing it over an end cap portion of arm . In one embodiment arm swivels or travels up and down similar to enable a view to move eyepiece out of their field of vision.

Port extender is an element that extends or elongates the communications and power connection provided by mobile device connector slot . In one embodiment it protrudes through HMD enabling a viewer to connect mobile device to other electronics devices such as an external battery. Port extender makes a passive i.e. unpowered electrical connection with mobile device via mobile device connector slot .

Pushbuttons are connected to rocker arms respectively. When one of pushbuttons is pressed by a viewer its corresponding rocker arm swings downward and a special tip at the end of the rocker arm makes contact with a fixed location on display of mobile device .

A viewer can slide slider upwards or downwards this has the effect of moving slider arm upwards or downwards relative to the side of mobile device .

In mobile device is secured by mobile device holder . With reference to when one of pushbuttons is pressed by a viewer its corresponding rocker arm swings downward and a special tip at the end of the rocker arm makes contact with a fixed location on display of mobile device . Rocker arms include mechanical linkages that protrude through mobile device holder and attach to and secure pushbuttons .

With reference to a viewer slides slider up or down to position a slider arm parallel to the side of mobile device . In one embodiment unlike pushbuttons slider arm does not include a rocker arm mechanism. Rather a tip of slider arm is always in contact with display . Thus tip remains in contact with and slides up and down on display parallel to the side of mobile device . In one embodiment slider is made of a single piece of plastic. In this embodiment slider i.e. the part that makes contact with a viewer s thumb and slider arm are part of a single piece of molded plastic. In one embodiment tips and are made of a material that is adapted to the particular touch sensing technology used by mobile device .

Mobile device controls can be adapted to work with a variety of mobile device screens including inter alia capacitive screens pressure sensitive screens mufti touch and gesture based screens. For example in the case of a capacitive screen which is a type of touch sensitive screen that employs capacitive touch sensors to detect viewer interactions tips and are made of an electrically conductive material that increases or changes the relative capacitance or parasitic capacitance to ground when contact is made with the capacitive sensors of the display. In some embodiments tips include a contact surface made at least in part of a conductive fabric. Such a conductive fabric may increase flexibility of the tip to enlarge the point of contact with the display and thereby enhance electrical coupling at the point of contact. In some embodiments the tip may be made of a flexible material such as plastic embedded with conductive material such as metallic wires or grains.

Controls are specially designed to work with a variety of computer programs including 3D display programs 3D games and movie players that runs on mobile device . Such computer programs include a user interface that can be operated using controls . For example in one embodiment pushbuttons each enable the viewer to select a single function while slider enables the viewer to activate a number of functions by selecting an item from a menu that is arranged along the side of display . One embodiment of a menu is described with reference to hereinbelow. A computer program that works with controls may be a specially designed program that works in conjunction with head mounted display or it may be a commercially available program that operates on a mobile device. There are several commercially available 3D display programs available for mobile devices such the IPHONE including MY3D from Hasbro Inc.

In one embodiment mobile device controls include a back button corresponding to one of pushbutton an enter button corresponding to the other of pushbutton and an up down slider corresponding to slider . In this embodiment a viewer first pushes enter button to signal to mobile device that it should present menu . Consequently mobile device displays a menu such as menu that provides one or more menu options . Next the viewer uses the up down slider to select one of menu options and then activates the selected menu option using the enter button.

A stereoscopic or 3D computer program that runs on mobile device uses this principle to achieve an illusion of depth by projecting two slightly offset images that display side by side on a mobile device separately to the left and right eye of the viewer i.e. one image is projected onto a portion of eyepiece that is exclusively viewed by the left eye and the other image is projected onto a portion of eyepiece that is exclusively viewed by the right eye. These two dimensional images are then combined by the viewer s brain to give the perception of 3D depth.

It may be appreciated by one skilled in the art that two identical images can be projected onto left surface and onto right surface . In this case the mind combines the two images properly as in stereoscopy but the resulting picture lacks in depth i.e. the viewer sees a 2 dimensional image rather than a 3 dimensional image. Thus HMD can be used for viewing non stereoscopic 2D images as well.

If eyepiece is partially transparent then the world appears through eyepiece and the image represented in as three dimensional object appears centrally positioned and superimposed over the world.

HMD includes a housing which secures a mobile device and which also secures an optical assembly not shown in allowing it to be positioned on the forehead substantially above the eyebrows so as not to obscure the eye or face of a viewer that is wearing HMD . This enables the viewer to interact in a natural way with other persons while wearing and using HMD i.e. without HMD obscuring or partially obscuring their face. In certain embodiments housing is secured to the head of viewer using a strap . The optical assembly reflects images from a display of mobile device onto an eyepiece for viewing by viewer . In one embodiment eyepiece is connected by an eyepiece holder to housing in other embodiments eyepiece may be connected by a frame to the ears of viewer or may be otherwise secured to the head of viewer . Thus in general housing does not include eyepiece holder although in certain embodiments and for example as depicted in eyepiece holder connects to housing .

A key aspect of HMD is that the optical assembly works with large displays such as the displays of popular smart phones such as an APPLE IPHONE 4 4S 5 and 5S from APPLE COMPUTER INC. For example HMD is designed to work with the IPHONE 5 which has 5 inch diagonal display and 16 9 aspect ratio. This requires for example in embodiments of HMD that include a primary reflecting surface or mirror such as that described with reference to hereinbelow the primary reflecting surface be large enough to reflect the requisite amount of light from the IPHONE 5 display into the primary optical element to avoid deterioration of the IPHONE 5 screen image.

In certain embodiments HMD includes a mobile device remote control that can be detached from HMD and operated by hand. Remote control enables viewer user to wirelessly control applications running on mobile device .

HMD comprises a variety of optical elements and configurations which have the characteristic of enabling a mobile device and housing to rest substantially above the forehead. Embodiments of HMD include HMD described hereinbelow as well as HMD and . Other embodiments and configurations are also within the scope of HMD .

HMD includes a housing that secures or connects a plurality of optical elements referred to as an optical assembly including an eyepiece a periscope and a reflecting surface described with reference to hereinbelow. A strap connects to housing and binds or secures HMD to the head of a human user or viewer . HMD further includes a mobile device remote control henceforth referred to as simply remote control described in further detail with reference to .

Strap is both comfortable and sufficiently sturdy to prevent HMD from slipping or tilting downwards or laterally. For example plastic ratchet straps may be used. Preferably the strap is may be adjusted by the viewer to tighten or loosen HMD relative to the head of viewer .

In certain embodiments housing includes a camera not depicted that can take still pictures video clips and or record sound. In one embodiment a cable runs from the camera to mobile device along or inside of housing . The camera may be used inter alia to provide sensor inputs to mobile device to enable mobile device to record videos photos and sound and to perform image processing functions such as facial motion capture or face recognition.

In one embodiment one or more of the components that attached to housing are separate pieces that may be detached. Specifically an eyepiece holder that secures eyepiece and periscope may be independently removed. This feature may be useful for packing HMD further periscope is only necessary for forward looking applications and is not needed when a viewer watching a movie that is being displayed on eyepiece so it can be removed in such a case without impairing the usefulness of HMD for such uses. In one embodiment housing is fabricated using an injection molded lightweight structure such as plastic or metal alloy. In other embodiments housing is a single continuous piece of material such as molded plastic and includes eyepiece holder and periscope in which case these components may be not detachable.

Typically eyepiece is half silvered i.e. coated in such as way as to be partially transmissive and partially reflective. Generally eyepiece may be coated such as to produce any desired level of transmission reflectivity or opacity. Further in certain embodiments eyepiece is equipped with a curtain that entirely blocks incoming light and renders it entirely opaque. This results in a fully immersive experience for the viewer and may be desirable when playing games or when watching movies. The curtain may be constructed of any opaque material including opaque plastic and fabric. The curtain may be attached in a variety of ways to eyepiece including using hooks or VELCRO or other adhesive tape.

As an alternative to or in addition to coating eyepiece may be made of an electro active material with the optical properties that may be electrically controlled. For example transmission of light may be controlled to produce varying percentages of transmission. Liquid crystal is one example of an electro active material.

In certain embodiments such as HMD eyepiece is implemented as a left and a right eyepiece. In other embodiments eyepiece is implemented as a single element. In one embodiment eyepiece is detachable from eyepiece holder allowing a viewer for example to substitute prescription glasses sunglasses and glasses with different levels of opacity. For example eyepiece may be more suitable for watching movies if it is substantially opaque while it may be more suitable for outdoor activities if it is in the range of 30 to 70 opaque.

Although not depicted in the figures housing may include suitably placed holes and clips for peripheral cables such as speaker and microphone cables to easily attach to mobile device .

In certain embodiments HMD does not include mobile device rather a viewer inserts his her own mobile device into HMD .

Periscope an embodiment of periscope includes a periscope housing that is a part of housing and two mirrors a smaller lower mirror and a larger upper mirror . Lower mirror is placed in the line of sight of a rear facing camera lens of mobile device . Lower mirror reflects light from upper mirror directly into the rear facing lens of mobile device . Upper mirror reflects light from the front of viewer towards lower mirror and thus into the rear facing lens of mobile device . Generally this enables mobile device to receive a forward looking reflected image that can be used for display or analysis. For example periscope may assist mobile device to capture an image that is then analyzed to determine where viewer is looking.

In certain embodiments periscope is detachable. This is useful for example when watching a movie in which case a periscope may not serve a purpose and might be cumbersome when reclining on a pillow.

In a preferred embodiment reflecting surface includes a single reflecting surface such as a mirror that reflects light emanating from mobile device downward through lens onto a respective side of eyepiece . Generally reflecting surface performs a similar function to reflecting surface of . and is large enough to reflect the necessary light from the screen onto either an optical element or eyepiece.

As depicted lens has two separate elements a right lens and a left lens right and left as seen by the viewer . In certain embodiments the right and left lenses are Fresnel lenses and may include either or both cylindrical or Plano convex forms to enable either a one to one mapping of aspect ratio or an anamorphic transformation of the image. In certain embodiments lens may also be Plano convex aspherical.

In certain embodiments eyepiece is made of two separate elements i.e. a right eyepiece and a left eyepiece right and left referring this case to the perspective of the viewer . In other embodiments eyepiece may take the form of a single element.

In certain embodiments housing includes an optical block that blocks light from crossing from one side to another and prevents crossover interference which is when one eye sees the image intended for another eye. Optical block is a nontransparent typically dark substance such as plastic that is placed between the two sides of reflecting surface .

Remote control may be mounted using a remote control mounting bracket on either side of housing . In remote control is mounted on the right side thus the mounting bracket on the right side of HMD is not visible however mounting bracket is visible on the left side since remote control is not mounted there.

Label A refers to the distance between mobile device and reflecting surface which varies along the length of reflecting surface .

Label B refers to the distance from reflecting surface to the plane defined by lens . This distance when added to the distance represented by Label A i.e. A B corresponds to the length between mobile device and the center of lens respectively and is optically equivalent to positioning mobile device directly above lenses at a distance of A B. In one embodiment A B is approximately 75 mm although ranges of 50 100 mm are desirable and other distances may also be acceptable.

It may further be appreciated that in this embodiment reflecting surface may be seen as the hypotenuse between mobile device and the plane formed by lens .

While eyepiece acts as a secondary mirror in reflecting images emanating from mobile device and reflected by reflecting surface onto eyepiece to a viewers eye the reverse is also the case i.e. an image of the viewers eye is also reflected back onto mobile device . The image of the viewer s eye can be continuously captured by a forward facing camera with a forward facing lens that is present in many commercial smart phones and other mobile devices. This image can be analyzed by mobile device to determine which location or approximate location on the display of mobile device the user is looking at. As such the viewer s eye or head can act as a pointing device with respect to the display of mobile device and can be used as such in mobile applications. In addition the viewer s eye movements may be analyzed for applications such as mood tracking and heart tracking.

Label C refers to the distance from lens to eyepiece and Label D refers to the distance from eyepiece to the eye of the viewer. To achieve proper focus of images in both directions i.e. images from the display of mobile device directed to the eye and images of the eye directed to lens it is required that A B approximately equal C D. This is a unique property of HMD that is not offered by prior art head mounted displays. While it is ideal that the distances of A B and C D be as precisely equal as possible tolerances in the range of 1 2 cm are acceptable.

Label E refers to a rectangle that encompasses the eyes eyebrows and at least the lower portion of the forehead of the viewer. In certain embodiments housing leaves area C on the face of viewer substantially unobstructed so that a person looking at viewer can see the viewer s facial features. Thus the geometry that relates lens reflecting surface and mobile device allows housing which secures these elements to rest high enough on the head of viewer so as not to obscure his her facial features. Ideally the only parts of HMD that drops below the midpoint on the viewer s forehead are eyepiece which is depicted as including a right eyepiece and a left eyepiece and eyepiece holder . In general it is most desirable for the lower extent of housing which in this case refers to the lowest part of housing and excludes eyepiece and eyepiece holder to be at least 20 mm above the eyebrow of viewer while distances above the eyebrow in the range of 10 20 mm are also acceptable. Thus in all configurations the lower extent of housing is substantially above the eyebrows of viewer .

It may be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the foregoing objective of having housing of HMD rest substantially above the eyebrow also applies to certain embodiments of HMD as described with reference to A B and A B. Namely the lower extent of housing which for this discussion does not include eyepiece or arm rests above the viewer s eyebrows.

In a most preferred embodiment lens has a focal length of approximately 100 millimeters although ranges from 50 to 150 millimeters are desirable and other lengths may be acceptable. Here focal length refers to the distance from the lens to the display of mobile device .

In one embodiment the key relative angles between various elements of viewing assembly are given in Table 1 below.

Several other key relationships are achieved by HMD that enable it to achieve the objective of mounting on the forehead and thus enabling a viewers facial features to be visible to other persons. Some of these relationships are listed below 

Eye to lens distance. Generally HMD is tolerant of a wider range of interpupilary distances which varies among various persons. This is because of the large exit pupil of the lens. Only viewers at the ends of the IPD range may experience distortion of the edges of the display if their eyes are too far from the lens due to the center of the lens not being aligned with the center of the image.

Mirror angles. If the mirrors are not at the correct angle the center of the image will be shifted up or down or side to side depending on the direction of the tilt.

Lens angle. To first order this will have no effect but the higher order effect of blurring the edges of the image parallel to the tilt axis will be noticeable.

Lens transverse displacement. if the lens is not in the correct transverse position the image will be shifted just as it would if the mirrors are not at the correct angle. This could lead to viewer fatigue.

The various controls provided by remote control are intended to be conveniently operated by a viewer. For example joystick and pushbuttons are proximate to the thumb. Typically pushbutton is interpreted by a mobile application as a forward button that when activated issues a forward command while pushbutton may be used as a backward button. Pushbutton is typically used in mobile applications as a control for triggering or selecting an action although it may be interpreted in other ways as well.

When a viewer operates selects and uses one of pushbuttons or joystick remote control generates and transmits a corresponding wireless signal to mobile device that indicates the status or position of the buttons and joystick. Thus mobile device receives a series of signals from remote control which it interprets as commands to a mobile application that is running and thus provides the corresponding status or position information to the mobile application.

In one embodiment remote control also sends 9 axis motion data i.e. x y z axis measurements from each of a gyroscope accelerometer and magnetometer to mobile device . This data may be processed to yield absolute position of remote control .

In yet another embodiment remote control broadcasts the 9 axis measurements to any electronic device suitably configured to receive the data. This enables other devices to identify the position of remote control . This may be useful for multi person games that use location information from multiple players.

Remote control also receives via its wireless transceiver commands for marker . Such commands may include the color to emit the duration of the illumination period the intensity of the light whether to flash and the like.

It may be appreciated that whereas pushbuttons and slider operate mechanically and generate physical signal that is received by a touch sensitive screen of mobile device pushbuttons and joystick operate electronically and result in an electronic command being sent by remote control to mobile device .

In one embodiment two of pushbuttons perform the same function as pushbuttons namely to indicate a back and an enter or select command. In this embodiment the discussion with reference to applies with those two of pushbuttons substituting for pushbuttons and joystick substituting for slider .

It may be appreciated by one skilled in the art that a single axis joystick such as joystick which may configured so that it may be either pushed up and down or pushed left and right is simpler to operate than a two axis joystick. However in other embodiments a two axis joystick or other pointing device may be used. Further pushbuttons may be replaced by other mechanisms that send a binary signal without departing from the scope and intent of the subject invention.

Mobile applications developed to work with HMD access a variety of features through a HMD application programming interface API . HMD API functions are provided by a software layer referred to as a HDM service . HDM API provides access to capabilities including obtaining the status of joystick obtaining the status of controls obtaining the current position of remote control turning marker on and off and setting the color of marker . The applications may also access features of additional computing devices nearby to provide additional input or output functionalities both for the purposes of development and for application purposes.

HMD and HMD described hereinabove may be equipped with other elements and features described with reference to HMD and HMD such as a remote control periscope half silvering of the eyepiece and the like. In general the structure and features of a head mounted display apparatus according to the embodiments referred to as HMD HMD and HMD may be arbitrarily combined with each other to yield an embodiment that is within the scope and spirit of the subject invention.

In reading the above description persons skilled in the art will realize that there are many apparent variations that can be applied to the methods and systems described.

