---

title: Security system providing a localized humanly-perceivable alert for identifying a facility to emergency personnel
abstract: The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for guiding emergency personnel to a location in a facility proximate to an alarm that has been generated. In one aspect, a method may include detecting an alarm condition at a facility protected by a security system and determining a location at the facility of the alarm condition. The method may further include causing at least one indicator at the facility, which is proximate to the determined location of the alarm condition, to generate an identifying alert that is humanly perceivable from an exterior of the facility such that emergency personnel can identify the facility based at least in part on the identifying alert. In some aspects, the method may also include notifying a security representative of the alarm condition, and receiving a notification from the security representative indicating that emergency personnel are dispatched to the facility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349262&OS=09349262&RS=09349262
owner: Vivint, Inc.
number: 09349262
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 786 341 entitled Security System Providing A Humanly Perceivable Alert For Identifying A Facility To Emergency Personnel filed on Mar. 15 2013 which is assigned to the assignee hereof.

This disclosure relates generally to security systems and more specifically to security systems that use indicators perceivable from the exterior of the facility that help responders identify the affected facility.

Security systems are widely used to protect property and provide personal safety. Security systems generally include a control unit that controls the overall operation of the system one or more keypads providing user access to the system and various detectors and sensors.

Security systems may generate an alarm in response to any number of events such unauthorized entry fire medical emergency or manual alarm activation. The security system may be associated with a service that remotely monitors the status of the security system. Thus if the security system generates an alarm a notification signal also referred to herein as an alarm communication may be transmitted via a wired and or wireless communications link to a central station. Upon receiving the alarm communication security service personnel at the central station may attempt to contact the property owner or other party at the facility to verify the alarm. If it is appropriate to do so the security service representative may upon confirmation of the alarm contact an emergency response agency such as the police department the fire department an emergency medical team or other appropriate entity.

One challenge facing emergency personnel responding to the alarm is locating the facility that generated the alarm. While emergency personnel usually have an address for the facility locating the facility still takes time. If it is dark out it can be difficult to see house numbers. Even during daylight hours finding the exact facility on a particular street can take a few minutes. Where the facility is an apartment identifying which of many apartments generated the alarm can be difficult. In many emergency situations even seconds count such that the time lost while emergency personnel are trying to find the facility may be critical.

Disclosed herein are methods systems devices and approaches to indicating to emergency personnel which facility has generated the alarm they are responding to. In one embodiment a security system includes one or more sensors that generate an alarm condition message in response to an alarm condition. The system may also include a control unit that is communicatively coupled to the sensor and that receives the alarm condition message from the sensor and that sends an identification message to a controller for an indicator. The controller receives the identification message from the control unit and causes the indicator to generate an identifying alert in response. The identifying alert generated by the indicator may be humanly perceivable from the exterior of the facility protected by the security system. The identifying alert may be a visual alert such as flashing lights an audible alert or combination thereof. The indicator may be an existing element within the facility such as an exterior light or may be a dedicated component provided to generate the identifying alert.

In certain embodiments the indicator may also localize the identifying alert to a location of the facility where the alarm condition occurred. For example if a smoke detector detects smoke the selected indicator may be the interior light in the room containing the smoke detector. The indicator may be one or more existing elements such as the lights within the facility which are connected to controllers to provide the functionality described herein. The controller may be a component in a building automation system for the facility that provides control of the lights in the facility.

Also disclosed herein is a non transitory computer readable storage medium that stores instructions that are executable by a processor. The storage medium may include instructions for receiving an identification message that indicates the occurrence of an alarm condition and the dispatch of emergency personnel to the facility protected by the security system. The storage medium may also include instructions for causing the identifying alert that identifies the facility associated with the security system and for which the identification message was generated. The identifying alert may identify a particular area e.g. a room of the facility where the alarm condition originated. In one embodiment the storage medium and the instructions thereon are part of a control unit installed in the facility.

Further disclosed herein is a method that involves detecting an alarm condition at a facility and notifying a security representative of the alarm condition. The method may also involve receiving a notification from the security representative that indicates that emergency personnel are dispatched to the facility and sending an identification message to the controller for the indicator. The identification message may cause the indicator to generate an identifying alert that is humanly perceivable from the exterior of the facility that is protected by the security system such that the emergency personnel can identify the facility based at least in part on the identifying alert. The indicator may be selected to localize the identifying alert to an area e.g. a room of the facility where the alarm condition originated.

Other aspects as well as features and advantages of various aspects of the present disclosure will become apparent to those of skill in the art though consideration of the ensuing description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Referring in general to the accompanying drawings various embodiments of the present disclosure are illustrated to show the structure and methods for installing a component within a system such as a security system. Common elements of the illustrated embodiments are designated with like numerals. It should be understood that the figures presented are not meant to be illustrative of actual views of any particular portion of the actual device structure but are merely schematic representations which are employed to more clearly and fully depict embodiments of the disclosure.

The following provides a more detailed description of ways to implement the present disclosure and various representative embodiments thereof. In this description functions may be shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the present disclosure in unnecessary detail. Additionally block definitions and partitioning of logic between various blocks is exemplary of a specific implementation. It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced by numerous other solutions. For the most part details concerning timing considerations and the like have been omitted where such details are not necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present disclosure and are within the abilities of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

In this description some drawings may illustrate signals as a single signal for clarity of presentation and description. It will be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art that the signal may represent a bus of signals wherein the bus may have a variety of bit widths and the present disclosure may be implemented using any number of data signals including a single data signal.

Sensors monitor for certain events and report relevant events to the control unit . Sensors may include any of a variety of different types of sensors such as door and window sensors motion sensors glass break sensors e.g. sensors that detect a physical break or detecting the sound of a glass break etc. The control unit may be configured to monitor sensors for alarm conditions via communication links and to relay alarms to the monitoring system via communication link . The sensors may in response to detecting an alarm condition send an alarm condition message to the control unit as described in further detail below.

Control unit may include sensor monitoring module user interface and alarm module . Sensor monitoring module may be configured to monitor sensors . Sensors can sense and or indicate a change in their physical surroundings e.g. a normally closed connection becomes open a signal indicating that the sound of breaking glass was detected detection of smoke etc. which may be indicative of an unauthorized access fire or other emergency. The sensors may communicate messages on communication links . For example a circuit connected to a door sensor can transition from closed to open or to a resistance exceeding a pre determined resistance threshold indicating that a door has been opened. A motion sensor can send an electrical signal indicative of detected motion. Sensor monitoring module may monitor communication links for alarm condition messages sent from sensors . Upon sensor monitoring module receiving an alarm condition message signaling occurrence of an alarm condition sensor monitoring module may send a signal to alarm module . The alarm module may determine whether an alarm condition has actually occurred before communicating with the monitoring system .

User interface can include an input interface and an output interface. The input interface can comprise a physical input interface or virtual input interface that may include a numeric key pad e.g. for entering a disarm code etc. sensor activation buttons physical duress buttons or other input output devices. The input interface can include a condenser for receiving audio input and or communicating with monitoring system . The output interface may include an output display device that displays system status such as armed and disarmed sensors zones that have detected change in physical surroundings and other relevant information. The output interface can also include a speaker that audibly outputs information similar to that displayed on the output display device. The speaker can also be used by monitoring system to communicate with a user of control unit .

The control unit may also communicate over a communication link with a remote activation system . The remote activation system may allow a user to interact with the control unit remotely. For example the user may be able to arm and disarm the system from a mobile device such as a cellular phone using the remote activation system .

Generally control unit may operate under control of an operating system stored in memory and interface with a user to accept inputs and commands and to present outputs through user interface . Control unit may also implement a compiler not shown which allows one or more application programs not shown written in a programming language to be translated into processor readable code. Instructions implementing an application program may be tangibly embodied in a computer readable medium. Further an application program may include instructions which when read and executed by processor cause processor to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use embodiments of the present disclosure. It is noted that an application program and or operating instructions may also be tangibly embodied in memory and or data communications devices thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to an embodiment the present disclosure. As such the term application program as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. Furthermore portions of the application program may be distributed such that some of the application program may be included on a computer readable media within control unit and some of the application program may be included in a remote device such as a remote computer.

The control unit may further include an indicator module . The indicator module may be software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. While illustrates the indicator module as a component of the control unit the indicator module may in other embodiments be implemented separate from the control unit . In certain embodiments the indicator module is distributed across various components within a facility. The indicator module may cause an indicator to generate an identifying alert that can be perceived from outside the facility implementing the system such that emergency personnel dispatched to the facility can quickly and easily identify the relevant facility. For example the indicator module may cause an exterior light of a house to flash on and off to so that emergency personnel can quickly identify the house.

In some embodiments the control unit may receive one or more alarm condition messages from one or more sensors . For example a sensor monitoring module of the control unit see may regularly or periodically monitor communication links and detect an alarm condition message from one or more sensors such as an open door a smoke alarm detecting smoke in a room a breaking window etc. The alarm condition message may indicate an ID of the sensor s from which the alarm condition message originated. The indicator module the processor and or memory may based on the ID of sensor s from which the alarm condition message originated determine a location or a proximate location of the alarm condition. The indicator module may then instruct one or more indicators in close proximity to the location of the alarm condition e.g. near the sensor s from which the alarm condition message originated to generate an identifying alert such as one or more lights of the facility to flash on and off. Generating the identifying alert may include causing interior lights that may be perceived from outside the facility implementing the system to flash outdoor lights that may be close to the location where the alarm condition occurred to flash etc.

The system also includes an operations center implementing a monitoring system . The monitoring system may in certain embodiments be implemented without an associated operations center . The operations center provides systems and personnel that support the security functions of the security system implemented at the facility . For example the control unit may communicate with a monitoring system in the event of an alarm condition at the facility . A security representative situated at the operations center may review the alarm condition notifications communicated to the monitoring system . The security representative may attempt to contact an individual associated with the facility by phone through the control unit or by other means. In appropriate circumstances the security representative and or the individual associated with the facility may contact an emergency response center and dispatch emergency response personnel to the facility .

For example the control unit may send the monitoring system an alarm condition notification indicating that a fire alarm at the facility has been triggered. The security representative at the operations center may review the alarm condition notification sent to the monitoring system and attempt to contact a person at the facility via the control unit . After confirming that there is a fire at the facility the security representative may call 9 1 1 and ask that firefighters be dispatched to the facility .

The facility may include one or more indicators as discussed in more detail below. For example the facility may have an exterior light that is in communication with the control unit the monitoring system or both. After the firefighters are dispatched to the facility the security representative may cause the exterior light to flash on and off making it easier for the firefighters to determine which facility has the fire they are responding to. Based on the alarm condition notification the security representative may also cause one or more lights of facility which may include interior and or exterior lights near the location of the alarm condition e.g. in close proximity to the sensor s from which the alarm condition message originated to flash on and off for example to further help the dispatched firefighters to quickly locate the particular location or area room etc. within facility of the alarm condition.

The system also includes a network . The network communicatively couples the control unit of the facility with one or more separate devices such as the monitoring system . The network may be an Internet network a telephone network a cellular network or other variety of communications network. In certain embodiments the control unit may be configured to connect with more than one network such an embodiment may provide redundancy and make the system more robust.

The sensor may detect an alarm condition as described above. For example the sensor may be a fire alarm that detects the presence of smoke in the facility . The sensor may be configured to generate an alarm condition message in response to the alarm condition . The alarm condition message communicates that an alarm condition has been detected and may include an ID of the sensor a location of the sensor or other identification information. The sensor may push the alarm condition message to the control unit or the control unit may poll for the alarm condition message from the sensor . The alarm condition message may be sent over a wireless or wired connection to the control unit .

The control unit may be communicatively coupled to the sensor and may receive the alarm condition message from the sensor . The control unit may be configured to determine whether the alarm condition message was generated in response to a valid alarm condition . For example if the sensor detects that the front door is opened and the security system is not armed the control unit may decide that the alarm condition is invalid and not act on the alarm condition message . However if the security system is armed the control unit may determine that the alarm condition is valid and interpret the alarm condition message to be evidence of an unauthorized entry. The control unit may then act upon the alarm condition message .

The control unit may be further configured to send an identification message to the controller associated with one or more indicators if the alarm condition is valid. The identification message may instruct the controller to generate an identifying alert using the indicator . The identifying alert may identify the location of the facility and may be localized to an area from which the alarm condition occurred. The control unit may send the identification message in response to the alarm condition message after determining that the alarm condition message is in response to a valid alarm condition . The control unit may in certain embodiments send the identification message in response to a valid alarm condition message in combination with a dispatch notification discussed further below indicating that emergency personnel have been dispatched to the facility .

The controller may be an electronic device communicatively coupled to the control unit and the indicator and may be configured to respond to an identification message . The controller may be a programmable logic controller PLC a system network controller a terminal unit controller or other variety of controller . The controller may implement firmware or software allowing it to receive the identification message from the control unit and to control the indicator and thus generate the identifying alert . The controller may cause the indicator to generate an identifying alert in response to receiving the identification message . The controller may send one or more control messages to the indicator . In one embodiment the controller sends one or more control messages that alternate between providing power and cutting power to an indicator that is a light fixture.

The indicator and the controller may form an integral unit. In other embodiments the indicator and the controller may be implemented separately and connected by a communications connection allowing the controller to send control messages to the indicator . The indicator may be a physical device capable of generating a humanly perceivable identifying alert. The identifying alert may also be perceivable by a human from an exterior of the facility that is protected by the security system . In one embodiment the identifying alert is a visual alert that is visible from the exterior of the facility. The indicator may for example be a light at the facility protected by the security system . The light may be an interior light that is visible from the street through a window. The light may be an exterior light such as a porch light or street lamp that is visible from the street.

The indicator may be a light that is provided as part of the security system. In one embodiment the indicator may be a strobe light. The owner of the facility may be instructed to place the indicator in a location visible from the street. For example the indicator may be placed outside the facility or in a window visible from the street in front of the facility . In an embodiment where the indicator is a strobe light the controller may send a control message to turn the strobe light on in response to receiving an identification message .

In other embodiments the indicator may provide an identifying alert that is audible. The indicator may generate an audible alarm that can be used to help determine the location of the facility and or an area of facility from which the alarm condition originated. The indicator may use both audible and visible components to an identifying alert .

In certain embodiments the control unit and or the controller may vary the nature of the identifying alert according to the nature of the alarm condition . For example knowing the location where the alarm condition originated may be helpful for certain alarm conditions . The control unit may use an exterior light as an indicator in response to an alarm condition associated with an unauthorized entry. Since knowledge of the location where a person gained unauthorized access may not be critical to emergency personnel the use of the exterior light alone may be sufficient. The control unit may use an exterior light and an interior light in the same room as a smoke detector in response to an alarm condition associated with a fire. The use of the interior light may help firefighters locate the exact position of the fire in the facility and allow them to more quickly and appropriately respond.

The control unit and or the controller may vary the nature of the identifying alert according to other conditions as well. For example the time of day may affect the type of identifying alert . If the identifying alert is generated after dark the control unit may cause the controller to generate an identifying alert that is only visual such as a flashing light. If the identifying alert is generated during daylight hours the control unit may cause the controller to provide an identifying alert that is both visual and audible.

If the security representative determines that the alarm communication was generated in response to an authentic emergency the security representative and or the individual associated with facility may dispatch emergency personnel to the facility implementing the system . The monitoring system may send a dispatch notification to the control unit indicating that emergency personnel have been dispatched. In other embodiments the monitoring system may send the dispatch notification to the controller . The control unit may in certain embodiments poll the monitoring system for dispatch notifications .

The control unit may be configured to send the identification message to the controller in response to receiving both the alarm condition message and the dispatch notification . Such an embodiment may ensure that the identifying alert which is intended to guide emergency personnel is generated only when necessary.

The indicator module may communicate with the control unit and the controller through the building automation module to provide an identifying alert using the light . While illustrates the indicator module and the building automation module as separate from the control unit in other embodiments the indicator module and the building automation module are implemented in the control unit . The indicator module in certain embodiments may be distributed throughout physical components in the system . The indicator module may be implemented as instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a solid state storage device SSD or other variety of non transitory computer readable storage medium.

While shows a single light the indicator module may be able to control multiple lights within the facility . For example a typical building automation module can control a large number of lights within the facility . The indicator module may be configured to use some or all of the lights controllable through the building automation module . The indicator module may have granular control such that it can control on and off particular lights and groups of lights of the lights that are installed in the system and controllable using the building automation module .

The building automation module and the controller may be elements in a building automation system. Building automation systems are networks of connected computing devices such as controllers that can be used to control various elements within the building in which the building automation system is implemented. The building automation system may for example control the lights the heating ventilation air conditioning HVAC system and other elements of the building or facility . The building automation module may be a software program configured to control the various elements of the building through one or more controllers such as controller . The building automation module in the example shown in can turn light s on and off through the controller . The building automation module may also be able to dim or otherwise control the light s through the controller .

The indicator module may receive an identification message that indicates the occurrence of an alarm condition from the control unit . The identification message may also indicate that emergency personnel have been dispatched to a facility associated with the indicator module . In one embodiment the control unit does not send the identification message to the indicator module until after emergency personnel have been requested. In such an embodiment receipt of the identification message is the indication that emergency personnel have been dispatched.

While illustrates the indicator module receiving the identification message from the control unit the identification message or a portion thereof may be received from other components in a security system. In one embodiment the monitoring system as seen in may send the identification message to the indicator module . The monitoring system may communicate directly with the indicator module over a communications network. In another embodiment the control unit alerts the indicator module when an alarm condition is detected and the monitoring system alerts the indicator module when emergency personnel are dispatched to the facility.

The indicator module may cause an identifying alert that identifies the facility such as facility or a particularly area of the facility associated with the system for which the identification message was generated. The indicator module may do so by sending an instruction to the building automation module that causes the one or more lights to flash. The building automation module may provide an application programming interface API or other interface allowing the indicator module to provide the instruction . The building automation module may send one or more messages to the controller which may in turn provide control messages that turn the one or more lights on and off.

The indicator module in one embodiment may send an individual instruction to first turn the one or more lights off and then another instruction to turn the one or more lights on and so on to create a flashing pattern. In such an embodiment the indicator module may be implemented transparently from the building automation module . A transparent implementation may reduce the complexity of the security system and allow implementation over a wide range of building automation systems without requiring changes to the hardware or software of the building automation module .

The identification message may identify the location within the facility where the alarm condition was detected. In one embodiment the indicator module stores a logical map of the locations of sensors for the security system. The indicator module may also store in the logical map one or more lights for the facility such that the indicator module can determine which light is in the same location or a proximate location as a particular sensor using the logical map. The indicator module may determine from the identification message which sensor detected the alarm condition and also determine which light or lights are in the same location as the sensor . This may allow the indicator module to restrict the identifying alert to the location of the sensor . In such an embodiment the identifying alert may identify not only the facility for which the alarm condition was generated but also the location of the sensor that detected the alarm condition . In certain situations such as a fire this additional information may be useful to emergency personnel.

In one embodiment in response to a dispatch notification the control unit may issue one or more identification messages to a controller coupled to the lights of the house . The controller may in one embodiment alternate the lights in the house to alternate between an on state and an off state in response to the identification messages . The flashing lights within the house may be visible through the windows . In another embodiment the controller only causes the exterior light or lights to flash and thus provide an identifying alert for emergency personnel. The house may be equipped with a special purpose light such as an exterior strobe light that may additionally or alternatively provide the identifying alert . The house may further have an audible alarm that generates an audible component to the identifying alert .

In another embodiment the controller may combine aspects of the above approaches. For example the controller may cause the exterior light to flash and cause the interior light at the location in the house where the alarm condition was detected to flash as well. If for example a smoke detector detects smoke in the left front corner of the house the controller may cause the exterior light to flash as well as a light in the room containing the smoke detector. The interior flashing light may be visible through the window

Emergency personnel on route are able to detect the identifying alert from the exterior of the house . Where the house is on a street with multiple residences on both sides of the street the identifying alert helps the emergency personnel more quickly determine that the house is the facility they are looking for.

The method may further involve at reference numeral causing at least one indicator at the facility to generate an identifying alert that is humanly perceivable from an exterior of the facility the at least one indicator being proximate to the determined location of the alarm condition. Causing the at least one indicator to generate the identifying alter may include sending an identification message to a controller for an indicator localized to an area of the facility where the alarm condition occurred via the techniques described above. The identification message may causes the indicator to generate an identifying alert that is humanly perceivable from an exterior of the facility that is protected by the security system associated with the controller . As a result dispatched emergency personnel can more quickly identify the facility and a particular area within the facility based at least in part on the identifying alert .

In certain embodiments the method may also include sending a termination message to the controller for the indicator that terminates the identifying alert . The user may send a termination message using the control unit either directly or through a remote activation system component such as a cellular phone a tablet or other electronic device in communication either directly or indirectly with the controller . The termination message may in certain embodiments be sent automatically in response to emergency personnel arriving at the facility. For example a sensor on a door may detect emergency personnel entering the facility and send the termination message in response to their arrival.

The method may involve at reference numeral notifying a security representative of the alarm condition . In one example the control unit may after receiving an alarm condition message send an alarm communication to the monitoring system which communicates information about the alarm condition to the security representative. The method may continue at reference numeral by receiving a notification such as dispatch notification from the security representative indicating that emergency personnel are dispatched to the facility. For example after calling the emergency response center the security representative may send the notification. In response the method may include at reference numeral causing at least one indicator at the facility to generate an identifying alert that is humanly perceivable from an exterior of the facility based at least in part on the received notification the at least one indicator being proximate to the determined location of the alarm condition. As a result dispatched emergency personnel can more quickly identify the facility and a particular area within the facility based at least in part on the identifying alert .

Although the foregoing description contains many specifics these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosure or of any of the appended claims but merely as providing information pertinent to some specific embodiments that may fall within the scopes of the disclosure and the appended claims. Features from different embodiments may be employed in combination. In addition other embodiments of the disclosure may also be devised which lie within the scopes of the disclosure and the appended claims. The scope of the disclosure is therefore indicated and limited only by the appended claims and their legal equivalents. All additions deletions and modifications to the disclosure as disclosed herein that fall within the meaning and scopes of the claims are to be embraced by the claims.

