---

title: Adjustable cheek rest
abstract: A locking adjustable cheek rest comprising an upper U-shaped portion and a lower portion located on the stock of a rifle or other firearm. The U-shaped portion is biased against the lower portion, such that the walls of the U-shaped upper portion press against the lower portion, thereby locking the upper portion in position. A first release and a second release are depressed to release the bias and enable the upper portion to be raised and lowered relative to the lower portion. Interlocking mechanisms located on the upper and lower portions facilitate locking of the cheek rest in a position determined by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984790&OS=08984790&RS=08984790
owner: Sig Sauer, Inc.
number: 08984790
owner_city: Newington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140111
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 751 475 titled ADJUSTABLE CHEEK REST filed Jan. 11 2013

This disclosure relates to a cheek rest on a rifle or other firearm and more particularly to a locking and adjustable mechanism for repositioning the cheek rest using a pinching grip.

Cheek rests or cheek pads have been in use for many years on rifles and shotguns. Adjustable cheek rests allow a user to customize the height of the cheek rest based on user preference and sight alignment requirements. A standard stock or buttstock does not consider the size and shape of the shooter or the various scope mounts or aiming sights that may be employed by the user on their rifle. Accordingly an adjustable cheek rest enables a user to customize the height of the cheek rest in order to best fit the user and the equipment. Many cheek rests are stationary and do not feature the ability to be customized in height to the preference of the user. Additionally those that are adjustable capable of being raised and lowered often require tools or two hands in order to adjust the height of the cheek rest.

The present disclosure describes a locking adjustable cheek rest for use on a rifle the locking adjustable cheek rest comprising an upper U shaped portion in an inverted position that is configured to essentially surround a lower portion located on the stock of a rifle or other firearm. The U shaped portion is biased against the lower portion such that the sides of the U shaped upper portion press against the sides of the lower portion thereby locking the upper portion in position. A pair of releases can be depressed to counter the bias and enable the upper portion to be raised and lowered relative to the lower portion. The upper portion may also include an integrated spring clip that can provide or add to the bias required to adequately grip the lower portion. An interlocking mechanism between on the upper and lower portions may facilitate locking of the cheek rest in a position determined by the user.

In one aspect an adjustable cheek rest for a firearm is provided the cheek rest comprising a lower portion attached to or integral to the stock of a firearm the lower portion defining a slot passing there through and having an outer surface a resilient upper portion separable from the lower portion the upper portion having a cross sectional U shape including an open end and a curved end the U shaped upper portion having two sides each defining an aperture there through the resilient upper portion exhibiting a preferred shape wherein an interior dimension between the two sides is less than a corresponding exterior dimension of the lower portion and a compressible release mechanism configured to pass through the slot and the two apertures wherein the release mechanism in an extended position allows the upper portion to grip the lower portion and when in a compressed position outwardly deforms the open end of the upper portion to release the grip and allow the upper portion to slide in relation to the lower portion.

In another aspect a method of adjusting a cheek rest for a firearm is provided the method comprising pinching together two knobs positioned on opposing ends of a release mechanism forcing the sides of a resilient cheek rest outwardly from a stock of the firearm sliding the resilient cheek rest vertically from a first vertical position while pinching the knobs of the release mechanism and releasing the knobs of the release mechanism to secure the resilient cheek rest in a second vertical position.

In one aspect the present disclosure is directed to an adjustable cheek rest that can be operated with one hand can offer ambidextrous design and is capable of adjusting to a plurality of heights and maintaining the chosen height in a fixed manner until the user decides to alter the height of the cheek rest. Cheek rest height adjustment may be particularly useful when the user is changing firing positions such as from standing to prone. The cheek rest may have three or more parts including an upper removable portion a lower portion attached to the stock of the firearm and a release mechanism for securing the upper portion to the lower portion and releasing the upper portion from the lower portion. The upper portion may be made of a resilient material that has a memory that returns it to its original shape after minor deformation. As used herein a resilient material is one that can be flexed to change a dimension of the piece by at least 5 yet returns to its original shape after the flexing force is released. The resilient upper portion can provide enough clamping force when fitted over the lower portion that the upper portion will remain fixed in relation to the stock when used under typical firing conditions. The release mechanism can be configured so that when the release mechanism is compressed e.g. between a thumb and forefinger the upper portion is expanded releasing its grip on the lower portion and allowing the upper portion to be moved in relation to the stock. Thus although the release mechanism passes through apertures in the walls of the upper portion a decrease in the length of the release mechanism increases temporarily the distance between the walls of the upper portion.

One embodiment is illustrated in . An adjustable cheek rest for a rifle is released for repositioning by applying a pinching grip across knobs and see . The cheek rest can be freely repositioned while maintaining that grip and secured in position by the act of releasing the knobs. In some cases the cheek rest may be repositionable along only one axis for example a vertical axis that is essentially normal to the axis of the firearm. The adjustment of the cheek rest does not require any tools and can be fully operated with one hand. The adjustable cheek rest allows the user to adjust the cheek rest to provide the correct alignment of eye and rifle sight as needed particularly each time a shooting position is established. The adjustable cheek rest can also allow for lowering or removal of the cheek rest when a user needs to remove the bolt of a bolt action rifle for ease of cleaning the rifle barrel.

The cheek rest includes an upper portion shown semi transparent in which operates in conjunction with a lower portion . The lower portion is connected to the stock or buttstock of the rifle . Lower portion may be integral to the stock meaning that it is formed from a common piece or it may be formed separately and attached to the stock such as with screws or adhesive. Upper portion in cross section is a parabolic upside down U shape with a first side a second side and a connector portion wherein the first and second side and the connector portion are connected to one another via a continuous piece of material to form the U shaped upper portion . Sides and may be substantially planar while connector portion is substantially parabolic as shown. At curvature point the upper portion transitions from substantially planar to curved. The upper portion is configured to be placed onto the lower portion such that the U shape is situated in an inverted manner. When in its lowermost position as shown in curvature point is approximately even with the top of lower portion . When upper portion is raised or partially raised as in void becomes larger.

Upper portion of the cheek rest can be a single design element and may be made using a plastic molding process such as injection molding. The plastic may be hypoallergenic and can include fillers and additives such as pigments UV inhibitors plasticizers glass or carbon fibers and fluorescent materials. Appropriate polymers are known to those of skill in the art and include polyolefins polycarbonate ABS and fiberglass reinforced plastics. The upper portion in particular the lower edges of the upper portion of the cheek rest can be shaped to provide a biasing force against the sides of the lower portion of the buttstock or alternately can be shaped to require a bolt and nut in the place of the first and second releases to bias and secure the upper portion of the cheek rest against the lower portion on the buttstock. The molding process of the cheek rest may be carried out so that the first side and second side are substantially parallel to one another when pulled from the mold and not fully cured. While the part is still warm and shapable the two sides and can be compressed towards one another so that the dimension across the open end of the U is reduced. The part can then be fully cured and or cooled while held in a compressed state. Upon release of the external compression force the cured piece will have a preferred shape in the absence of external forces where the dimension across the open end of the U is less than or equal to the dimension across lower portion . Thus to be fitted over lower portion upper portion can be expanded or pulled apart and then allowed to contract after placement on lower portion . This means that upper portion will be in compression around lower portion and will provide a gripping function around lower portion . Thus in this embodiment the upper portion exhibits a spring clip function without requiring any additional components.

In an alternate embodiment not shown a U shaped or saddle shaped spring clip can be used within the mold or on an internal surface of the mold such that the spring clip passes over the comb of the upper portion and is self biased against the left and right sides of the stock. This bias is used to secure the upper portion of the cheek rest to the lower portion within a limited range of relative position. In these cases the plastic itself need not have memory and can be flexible. The spring clip can be integrated into the upper portion and thus not visible when the cheek rest is in use. The spring clip may be removable or premanently molded into the upper portion.

A release mechanism for securing and releasing the upper portion may include two or more parts or releases. A first release is configured to pass through a first aperture on a first side of the upper portion through slot on lower portion and contact an interior surface of a second side of upper portion . First knob of the first release is larger in diameter than at least a portion of the first aperture and therefore the first knob remains exposed on an exterior of the first side of the upper portion . Similarly a second release is configured to pass through a second aperture on a second side of the upper portion through slot and contact an interior surface of the first side of the upper portion . A second knob of the second release is larger in diameter than at least a portion of the second aperture and therefore the second knob remains exposed on an exterior of the second side of the upper portion . In some embodiments apertures and can be of two or more diameters. For example an outward facing portion of apertures and may be of large enough diameter to allow the passage of knobs and while an inward facing portion of apertures and may have smaller diameters allowing for the passage of releases and while preventing the passage of knobs and . Apertures and may have for example two distinct cylindrical diameters as shown or may be conically shaped to provide a variation in diameter.

Depressing the exposed first and second knobs of both the first and second releases at the same time using a pinching grip with the user s hand pushes at least a portion of the inner surfaces of sides and away from each other allowing the user to release the gripping bias created by the upper portion . This enables the user to move upper portion upward or downward in relation to lower portion on the buttstock . The pinching grip allows the user to move the cheek rest into a new position whereby it is secured simply by the letting go of the first and second knobs of both the first and second releases thereby allowing the upper portion to again bias against the sides of the lower portion . The adjustment can be completed without tools and without disconnecting or reconnecting parts. The force needed to depress the first and second releases may be for example between 5 and 20 lbs of force preferably about 13 lbs of force such that a user can depress the first and second releases relatively easily between the thumb and forefinger of one hand. The opposing force can be provided by the sides of upper portion which can be in compression around lower portion .

First and second releases as shown in can be interlocked to one another to form a release mechanism. In the embodiment shown at least one of the first and second releases includes an integral spring clip shown on second release in . The integral spring clip can retain the two releases together while providing a path of substantially axial motion of the two releases in relation to each other. Thus the manual compression of opposing knobs and can move the two releases axially in relation to each other but the compression force provided by the opposed sides and of upper portion forces the knobs back to their original position after the knobs are released by the operator. As the interior surface of the opposed sides and are in contact with distal ends of releases and the compression force provided by the deformation of upper portion can place the release mechanism in tension pushing knobs and outwardly.

First and second releases can be physically separated from one another in order to remove the upper portion of cheek rest . In one embodiment the first and second releases are separated from one another using for example a 3 mm pin or Allen key inserted through opening and pressed against end portion of the integral spring clip . The pin raises end portion by sliding along the angled lower edge of end portion until end portion is raised to a height adequate to clear lip of release . Other separation and removal options such as various pins or fasteners are also contemplated and within the scope of the present invention. The release and connection between the first and second releases may be a dovetail connection that enables the first and second releases to slide relative to one another when the first and second knobs are depressed and released. When the first and second releases are separated from one another the dovetail connection can disengage.

The cheek rest can include an interlocking feature that helps fix upper portion in relation to lower portion when the release is depressed by the user. As shown in an interlocking mechanism can include features on the inner surface of upper portion that complement features on the outer surface of lower portion . For example the interior surface of upper portion can include raised or depressed features such as protrusions and or grooves which can be in a repeated pattern such as a series of ribs or teeth that are integral with the interior surface. Lower portion can also include raised or depressed features such as ribs or teeth configured to complement and interlock with protrusions on upper portion . When protrusions of upper portion are engaged with grooves of lower portion the cheek rest is in a stable or locked position. The configuration of the interlocking mechanism can allow the cheek rest to be positioned in a plurality of different locations thereby fully customizing the height of the cheek rest based on the preference of the user. When the user depresses first and second releases protrusions and grooves disengage from one another and upper portion can be freely raised or lowered with respect to lower portion . Releasing the first and second releases will then reengage or lock the first and second interlocking mechanisms to one another securing the cheek rest in the a second position determined by the user. In many embodiments the height of the protrusions extending from the surface of lower portion may be less than the length of travel afforded to the release mechanism. In this manner full compression of the release mechanism will fully clear the interlocking features allowing upper portion to slide smoothly up or down. Lower portion may also include indicia that can be aligned with the lower edge of the upper portion to help a user re adjust the cheek rest exactly to a previously used height.

The cheek rest may also include one or more guides and on the upper portion and or lower portion which restrict relative rotation or horizontal movement of the cheek rest and or restrict repositioning of the cheek rest to a single axis of travel. Guide members and may be complementary to each other and can also serve to provide rigidity to resilient upper portion .

It is also contemplated and within the scope of the present invention that a similar adjustable and biased mechanism could be used with a recoil pad or forearm and be configured to similarly adjust.

It is understood that the present invention is not intended to be limited to a system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated objects or features of the invention. It is also important to note that the present invention is not limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention and not to be limited except by the allowed claims and their legal equivalents.

