---

title: Optimizing a visual perspective of media
abstract: One or more signals are used to identify regions of interest of an image. The signals are applied to the image to generate one or more models that are based on the regions of interest. The models may present different perspectives of the image by emphasizing various features and focal points. The models may be ranked and displayed according to a scoring paradigm that is based on one or more signals. Multi-tiered feedback mechanisms allow for the collection of user intent and/or other forms of explicit input. Feedback associated to the models may be obtained and used to generate additional models that are based on one or more signals and the feedback. The feedback may also be stored and utilized for machine learning purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626768&OS=09626768&RS=09626768
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09626768
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140930
---
The availability and diversity of software that can be used to create content has increased. Similarly software applications used for editing images videos and other forms of media have contributed to advances in the sharing of rich forms of information by allowing users to supplement content with images videos and other forms of visualizations. For instance some software applications allow users to edit an image. When using such applications users may be tasked with the challenge of applying edits that bring highlight to one or more features. Such tasks generally require a manual editing process which may be inefficient and cumbersome.

Because almost any technology user today creates generates shares and or publishes content some users or other entities creating generating sharing or publishing the content may not be trained in design principles. As a result some users may not be capable of editing media to optimize the visual effectiveness of the content. Regardless of the level of training it may be even more difficult to produce visual content that brings focus to the elements of an image while also improving the aesthetics. In addition the wide range of available devices on which content is consumed such as smartphones tablets laptops desktop and large screens further complicates content creation. It may not be feasible even for a capable author to create content optimized for all the form factors screen sizes and resolutions.

Technologies are described herein for optimizing a visual perspective of media. Generally described one or more signals may be used to identify regions of interest of an image. The signals are applied to the image to generate one or more models that bring focus to one or more regions of interest. For instance the models may present different perspectives of the image by emphasizing various features and focal points of one or more regions of interest. The models may be ranked filtered and displayed according to a scoring paradigm that is based on one or more scoring signals. Techniques disclosed herein also provide a multi tier feedback paradigm that receives and interprets different types of feedback associated with the models. For example techniques disclosed herein process user feedback to interpret user intent and or other forms of gestures. Feedback associated with the models may be used to generate additional models that are based on one or more signals that modify one or more aspects of an image. The feedback may also be stored and utilized for machine learning purposes.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Technologies are described herein for optimizing a visual perspective of media. Generally described one or more signals may be used to identify regions of interest within an image. The signals are applied to the image to generate one or more models that bring focus to one or more regions of interest. For instance the models may define one or more perspectives of the image by emphasizing various features and focal points of one or more regions of interest. The models may be ranked filtered and displayed according to a scoring paradigm that is based on one or more scoring signals. Multi tiered feedback mechanisms allow for the collection of various forms of input including user intent and other forms of explicit instructions that may be interpreted from various forms of input gestures. Feedback associated with the models may be obtained and used to generate additional models that are based upon one or more signals. The feedback may also be stored and utilized for machine learning purposes.

For illustrative purposes the term signal refers to a source of information process or any data that may be used to identify and process a region of interest of an image or other form of media. For illustrative purposes a region of interest may also be referred to herein as a region. In some non limiting examples a signal may include data or a process related to the identification and processing of salient regions or invariant regions in an image. In another example a signal may include data or a process related to the capabilities of a device. This type of signal may include data describing an aspect ratio resolution physical dimensions and or other information describing a device. In other examples a signal may include data or a process related to the identification and processing of specific elements people objects or features of an image. For instance a signal may be used to identify a face person body a strong line or any other object or element in an image. For illustrative purposes a subject of an image may include any feature object any part of an object a person or any part of a person.

In other non limiting examples a signal may include data or a process related to an intended use for the image. This type of signal may define a viewport having a target area used to display one or more images. The viewport may include any arrangement or layout of displayable media which may include multiple target areas and or other information such as descriptive text.

In yet another example a signal may include data or a process indicating or defining a user preference. For instance one or more signals may indicate a preference for images having one or more features or images that follow one or more photography principles. For example a signal may define one or more rules indicating that it is favorable to follow the Rule of Thirds which is a known principle where an object of an image should be positioned at a specific proportion e.g. of at least one dimension of the image. In another example a signal may define one or more rules indicating that it is favorable to allocate space in front of a person depicted in the image. In yet another example a signal may define one or more rules indicating that it is not favorable to crop cover or otherwise obscure a subject or text in an image. As will be described below signals indicating such preferences may be used to generate a model that may optimize a visual perspective and or the aesthetics of an image.

These example signals are provided for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting. As it can be appreciated any information paradigm process or data structure from any resource may be used with techniques described herein to identify and process a region of interest in any form of media. In addition although the techniques described herein refer to the processing of images it is to be appreciated that an image may be a part of any form of media such as a video still image or another form of media describing a two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D display environment. For instance an image may be a still image part of a video or one or more perspectives of a 2D or 3D display environment.

As will be described in more detail below one or more signals may be utilized to generate a model that defines one or more modifications and or viewing parameters of an image. The model may define one or more perspectives of the image by emphasizing various features and focal points of one or more regions of interest. For instance a model may focus on a particular element such as a strong line or a model may focus on a combination of elements such as a strong line and a face. In one example a model may define cropping coordinates of an image to bring focus to one or more regions of interest. As will be described below a number of models having a different focus depending on the applied signals are generated and scored according to one or more factors. The models are then filtered ranked and presented in an interface for selection.

Multi tiered feedback mechanisms allow for the collection of various forms of input. In one form input data may indicate a selection of a model. The input data may also indicate an intent that may be interpreted to bring priority or focus to one or more regions of an image. In addition the input data may include explicit instructions defining one or more viewing parameters of the input image and or modifications to the input image. Additional details regarding these features and other features are provided in more detail below.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific configurations or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of a computing system computer readable storage medium and computer implemented methodologies for optimizing a visual perspective of media. As will be described in more detail below with respect to there are a number of applications and services that can embody the functionality and techniques described herein.

Referring now to aspects of one operating environment for the various configurations presented herein will be described. The operating environment shown in can include a computing device . According to various configurations the functionality of the computing device can be provided by a personal computer PC such as a desktop tablet workstation or laptop computer system. The functionality of the computing device also can be provided by other types of computing systems including but not limited to server computers handheld computers netbook computers notebook computers embedded computer systems personal digital assistants mobile telephones tablet or slate computers smart phones or other devices or systems capable of executing the various software elements described herein. Because other computing systems can be used to provide the functionality described herein the above examples of the computing device should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to some configurations the computing device is configured to operate in communication with or as a part of a communications network network . In some other configurations the computing device does not operate in communication with the network and or functionality of the computing device described herein can be provided without accessing the network . The computing device can be configured to execute an operating system and one or more application programs modules software elements or other computer executable or computer executable instructions such as for example a program module and or other computer executable instructions.

The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the computing device . The program module can include an executable program configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide the functionality described herein for optimizing a visual perspective of media. Although the program module is illustrated as a component of the computing device it should be understood that the program module might be embodied as or in a stand alone device or components thereof operating as part of or in communication with the network and or the computing device . The program module also can be a virtualized service or technology layer that executes on the computing device and or on other real or virtual devices in communication with the computing device . Thus the configuration shown in is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As will be explained in more detail below the program module can be configured to obtain input data . The input data obtained by the program module can include visual content such as one or more images videos or the like. As can be appreciated the input data may also include data that defines 3D models which may include maps virtual environments and or multi dimensional objects. For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the visual content is referred to herein as images. 

Text and other graphical objects that are positioned over or overlaid on one or more images may be defined by the input data in any suitable format. For instance the text and other graphical objects may be defined by data describing information such as a font point size text position layout or other information used to describe text symbols and or markings that are to be positioned over one or more images. Because there are a number of types of visual content that are contemplated and are possible it should be understood that the described implementations are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The input data may also include data related to an intended use for the input data . The intended use may include any type of information describing how the media such as an image of the input data may be utilized. In some configurations the intended use may define one or more viewing distances depending on the size of one or more display devices. In such configurations data defining the intended use may accommodate a phone with a small screen a desktop with a larger screen or even a projector with yet a larger screen. In one illustrative example data defining the intended use may have one range of viewing distances for interesting features of an image when the image is displayed on a phone and at the same time the data defining the intended use may provide a broader viewing distance of the features when the image is displayed on a larger display device. Having multiple levels of viewing distances for different display devices allows users to view details and see the author s intent regardless of the screen size.

In other examples an intended use may include the use of an image in a start menu tile. In yet another example an intended use may include the display of an image in a defined layout of a web page. In some configurations for example an intended use may include layout information one or more aspect ratios and other information such as text or symbols that may be displayed with the image. It can be appreciated that data describing an intended use may be obtained in the input data . In addition data describing an intended use may be stored or accessed from a local or remote configuration file or it may be built into an application. Other aspects and illustrative examples of an intended use are described in more detail below.

According to various configurations the computing device can be configured to obtain create generate receive and or store the input data . For example the input data can be stored at the computing device in a memory disk drive or other data storage elements. In some other configurations such as the configuration illustrated in the input data can be obtained from a data source that can be configured to operate as part of or in communication with the network . The functionality of the data source can be provided by a network drive a server computer operating on or in communication with the network a database or other real or virtual data storage elements and or other data storage devices.

As described in detail below the input data or other data obtained by the computing device may be processed to identify and analyze regions of interest of an image contained in the input data . The signals are applied to the image to generate one or more models that brings focus to one or more regions of interest. For instance the models may present different perspectives of the image by emphasizing various features and focal points of one or more regions of interest. The models may be ranked filtered and displayed according to a scoring paradigm that is based on one or more scoring signals. As will be described in more detail below a score also referred to herein as a signal score may be calculated depending on a success rating for the one or more signals that are applied to the image.

Turning now to aspects of a routine for optimizing a visual perspective of media are shown and described below. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

It also should be understood that the illustrated methods can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined below. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used in the description and claims is used expansively herein to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

As will be described in more detail below in conjunction with the operations of the routine are described herein as being implemented at least in part by an application such as the program module . Although the following illustration refers to the program module it can be appreciated that the operations of the routine may be also implemented in many other ways. For example the routine may be implemented by at least in part a content creation application of or any other application such as a web browser application of . In addition one or more of the operations of the routine may alternatively or additionally be implemented at least in part by a web browser application of or another application working in conjunction with one or more servers such as one or more an application servers of .

With reference to the routine begins at operation where the program module obtains input data . As summarized above the input data may define an approach model or theme for presenting text in a 2D or a 3D display environment. For example the input data may include an image part of a video or one or more perspectives of a 2D or 3D display environment data modeling an augmented reality environment and or combinations thereof. For illustrative purposes some examples described herein involve the processing of image data or the processing of an image. It can be appreciated that such examples are provided for illustrative purposes and techniques disclosed herein may be applied to any other form of data that involves the display of text with any form of media. As described in detail below the input data may also include data associated with an intended use.

Referring briefly to an illustration of one example rendering of an image is shown and described. The image includes a number of objects and features. In this example the image includes a person a group of people a flower a horizon line and a sculpture . The image also contains text which may be embedded in the image data. This example is provided for illustrative purposes and is not to be construed as limiting. It can be appreciated that the input data may include any form of media including 2D and 3D models defining one or more environments videos or images.

The input data may also include data associated with an intended use. Generally described an intended use may include any type of information describing how media of the input data such as an image may be utilized. Data related to an intended use may include layout information text that may be presented with an image one or more aspect ratios and or other information describing display parameters. It can be appreciated that the data related to an intended use may be obtained with the image or as a stand alone input. It can be appreciated that the data associated with an intended use may be obtained with data defining the image. It can also be appreciated that the data associated with an intended use may be obtained separately from the data defining the image. For instance the data associated with an intended use may be stored as a part of the program module in a configuration file and or in another local or remote module.

For illustrative purposes provides illustrative examples of three viewports A C also referred to generically as viewports that may be used to convey an intended use. As shown the viewports may be configured with different shapes and sizes and combinations of various elements. For instance as shown in a first example viewport A includes a focus area A and a text field A. The focus area A may be a designated area for one or more images such as the image . In this example the first example viewport A includes a layout where the focus area A is positioned next to the text field A. In some configurations the data defining the viewport A may include a number of parameters such as dimensions and or an aspect ratio associated with the focus area A. One or more viewports and associated information can be created in number of ways. In some implementations a person skilled in the graphical design may manually define the viewport size placement of text location of focus areas and other parameters needed to produce intended output. In other implementations automatic layout systems which are not described here may be used to produce one or more viewports and associated data based on a desired layout. In yet other implementations a viewport size can be based on a device which may display the output. For example the viewport size may match the screen size or a preset portion of screen size of one or more devices. Additional parameters can also be inferred by the system and or defaults may be used.

As also shown in a second example viewport B includes a focus area B positioned above the text field B. As shown the focus area B and the text field B are centered in the viewport B. As can be appreciated data defining the second example viewport B may define an aspect ratio for the focus area B which in this example has different parameters than the first example viewport A. Data describing a viewport also referred to herein as viewport data may come from a number of sources. For example viewport data may be generated by a layout engine that analyzes various factors to determine an optimal layout for images and text. Viewport data may be based on capabilities of one or more devices. Viewport data may be at least in part based on one or more configuration files and or the manual entry of data by a user.

Returning to at operation the program module identifies at least one region on interest within the image . In general a region of interest may be any portion section or area of an image that may contain an object or feature. A region of interest may be identified by the use of a number of techniques. In some configurations one or more signals may be used to analyze the image to identify or determine a region of interest. For instance a signal may be used to identify a salient region or an invariant region. In addition a signal may be used to identify a face person body a strong line or any other object or element in an image. These example signals are provided for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting. As it can be appreciated any information paradigm process or data structure from any resource may be used with techniques described herein to identify and process a region of interest.

As will be described below techniques disclosed herein may also aggregate two or more regions of interest to generate an aggregate region. In such techniques for example two or more regions of interest that are close in proximity may be combined or viewed as one object. As will be appreciated such techniques involving the aggregation of two or more regions allow for the presentation of a large number of different perspectives of the image .

It can be appreciated that that a wide range of known techniques for identifying one or more regions may be used in operation . For example salient regions and invariant regions may be determined by one or more known techniques. As used herein the term salient region can be used to refer to a portion of an image that includes what can be considered to be an important portion of the image. For example if an image includes people the salient region can be determined to include one or more faces of the people in the image. Similarly the salient region can be identified as buildings in architectural photos flowers or other vividly colored items among trees grass or other relatively monotonously colored backgrounds or the like. In some configurations the salient region can be identified by the computing device based upon patterns color variances sharpness or blurring facial recognition or other processes. In some configurations salient regions may be defined by a user.

The term invariant region as used herein can be used to refer to an area region or portion of the image that has a relatively consistent color color scheme color differences luminance sharpness blur pattern or the like that can be determined to be a location at which text included in the data could be located with respect to the image over the invariant region achieving reasonable and consistent contrast between the foreground text and the background image. In some examples the invariant region can correspond to a relatively uniform portion of the image such as a blue sky in a landscape photograph a wall or other background behind human subjects or the like. Salient regions and invariant regions may or may not be mutually exclusive. For example in some cases invariant regions can be contained within the salient regions or can overlap the salient regions.

Operation may also involve the generation of a confidence score. A confidence score may be based on a wide range of factors. In a non limiting list of examples one or more factors that may influence a confidence score may include the match level to the identifying pattern the size of an identifiable object the depth of a color or luminance variation the existence of identifiable features of an object image quality and many other factors. A number of different techniques for identifying one or more regions of interest and determining corresponding confidence scores are known thus details of such techniques are not discussed in detail herein.

To illustrate aspects of operation shows examples of different regions of interest . For illustrative purposes includes the image and representations of the image . In this particular example a region of interest is outlined around the person . In addition a region of interest is outlined around the group of people . As can be appreciated these regions of interest may be identified by a number of different techniques some of which may utilize one or more signals described herein. For instance known techniques for identifying a face or a group of faces may be used to find a region of interest. In addition other techniques for identifying salient regions may be used.

Specific to the example shown in operation may be used to identify a region of interest outlined around the flower or a region of interest outlined around the text . In addition known techniques may be used to identify a region of interest showing an invariant region. As shown in the representation known techniques for identifying strong lines may be used to identify a region of interest around a structure such as the sculpture . The same techniques or other techniques for identifying strong lines may be used to identify as shown in representation a region of interest around the horizon .

It can also be appreciated that known techniques may be used to identify a region of interest for different parts of an object. For instance although a face detection algorithm may be used to detect the person and a region of interest around the person such algorithms or other algorithms may be used to identify a region of interest around the body of the person . The same techniques or other techniques for example may be used for identifying and or defining regions of interest around part of the sculpture or part of the flower .

As can also be appreciated techniques for aggregating regions of interest may be used in operation . For example in the third representation illustrates a region of interest that is formed from aggregating the region of interest around the person and the region of interest around the group of people . As can be appreciated this example is provided for illustrative purposes as any combination of regions may be used to create an aggregate region. For instance as will be shown in the following examples the region of interest around the group of people may be combined with the region of interest in around the sculpture . As can be appreciated many more combinations may be identified. Additional examples some of which include aggregated regions of interest are described below and shown in the examples of .

Returning to once the program module determines the regions of interest and the associated confidence scores the routine proceeds to operation where the program module generates one or more models by applying one or more signals to the image . As summarized above techniques described herein may generate a number of models that bring focus to one or more regions of interest or combinations of two or more regions of interest of an image.

In some configurations of operation one or more signals may be selected for processing based on a number of factors including a confidence score associated with one or more regions of interest. Other contextual information such as a user preference or other data may also determine the types of signals that are applied to the image. For instance as described below as routine is used to process images usage data may be stored for machine learning purposes. Such usage data may be accessed in operation to determine the type of signals selected for processing the image into a model .

As also described above individual signals or combinations of signals may be applied to an image to generate a model . In addition an individual region of interest or multiple regions of interest may be selected and applied to one or more signals to generate a model . In addition multiple regions of interest may be aggregated and applied to one or more signals to generate a model defining a perspective of the one or more selected regions. As can be appreciated any signal or any other process or data related to a region of interest in the image may be utilized to generate a model having one or more perspectives of the image .

For example any one of the regions of interest shown in may be selected and applied to one or more signals for generating a model . In addition any combination of the regions of interest shown in may be selected and applied to one or more signals for generating a model . For example a face recognition algorithm may determine a high confidence score associated with the region of interest around the group of people . In such a scenario operation may generate several models that focus on the group of people and other objects or features around the group of people . illustrate several renderings showing example models that may be created in this scenario.

As summarized above a signal may include data or a process indicating a preference or an intended use. For example data associated with an intended use may be used to determine one or more parameters of a generated model. In a specific example as illustrated in and described above the input data may contain parameters of a viewport which may include an aspect ratio or a size of a viewing area of the image size and location of zero or more focus areas which serve as a preferred locations for a features detected in the image zero or more text areas to contain text to be placed over the image data related to the intended use such as desired zoom level etc. By allowing for adjustments in the zoom level a viewing distance for one or more features may be modified to provide more details of the features or salient regions of an image even when the image is displayed on a small display device. In this illustrative example data related to an intended use may cause a generated model to define a specific aspect ratio for the image.

In another example one or more signals may indicate a preference for images having one or more features or images that follow one or more photography principles. For example a signal may define one or more rules such as the Rule of Thirds. In another example a signal may define one or more rules indicating that it is favorable to allocate space in front of a person depicted in the image. In yet another example a signal may define one or more rules indicating that it is not favorable to crop text or cover text in an image. Operation may process signals to generate models following one or more of the defined preferences. For instance if an image depicts a person in the center of the image one or more signals may crop or pan the image so there appears to be more space in front of the person. Other non limiting examples are described below.

In some configurations some models generated in operation may also be based on one or more signals and or regions that are selected using a random selection process. Thus a model may focus on an object person part of an object or person strong line part of a strong line or any other feature of the image . In addition a model may focus on a salient region. In some situations a model may focus on an invariant region. The model may focus on text displayed in an image or a combination of any object of feature of an image. Additional examples of individual signals and combinations of signals that may be used to generate a model are described below and shown in .

In operation when one or more signals are applied to the image the program module may generate the model which may be configured with data defining one or more perspectives of the image. For instance to mitigate the use of computational resources a model may include data describing cropping coordinates color modifications or any other data related to the image . For illustrative purposes the output of operation may also be referred to herein as model data or an intermediate model. In addition the model may include data defining the text such as ASCII values for the characters a font font size and or other data describing how the text may be arranged such as the text position. As will be described below the model may be delivered with content such as the image to a consuming client where the model provides the parameters on how the image may be displayed on the consuming client.

Next at operation the program module determines a signal score for each model generated in operation . Generally described the determination of the score for each model may be based on a number of factors. For example a signal score for a particular model may be based on a success rating for the one or more signals that are applied to the image . In a specific example if an image includes a salient region and an invariant region a model focusing on the salient region may score higher than a model focusing on the invariant region. In another example a model that includes 100 of the salient region may score higher than a model that only includes 80 of the salient region. Similarly a model that includes a face may score higher than a model that only includes a portion of the face i.e. a cropped face may have a lower score. These examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting as it can be appreciated that a signal score may be influenced by any factor event goal etc. For instance with an artistic goal in mind a close cropped face including only 90 of the face but including both eyes may receive a higher score than a close cropped face with 100 of the face in viewport.

In other examples a signal score may be influence by characteristics of one or more objects depicted in a model. In particular a signal score may be influenced by the amount of the viewing area that is filled by an object or person. For instance in one illustrative example a model having a face that fills 80 of the viewing area may score higher than another model having a face that fills only 20 of the viewing area. In another example a signal score may be influenced by the amount of the focus area that is filled by an object or person by the proximity of an object or person to the focus area or by the similarity of the aspect ratio of the focus area with the aspect ratio of the outline of an object or person. These examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting.

In some configurations a number of individual factors or combinations of factors may be used to influence the signal score. In some configurations the confidence score of one or more regions may also influence the score of a particular model. For instance if a face is recognized in an image and the confidence score of the associated region is low the overall signal score for the model may be lower than a comparable model involving a region with a higher confidence score.

In some configurations signals related to various properties or characteristics of a model may influence an associated signal score. For example a signal score of a model containing an aggregation of two or more regions of interest may be higher than a model that does not contain an aggregation of two or more regions of interest. In one illustrative example if an image contains three regions each of which are associated with a person techniques disclosed herein may combine the three regions to create an aggregate region of interest. In such a scenario the signal score for the model having the aggregated regions may be higher than a signal score of a model defining the three individual regions.

In some configurations the location and or size of the text placed within a viewport may influence an associated signal score. For example a signal score of a model containing text placed over an invariant region may be higher than a signal score of a model containing text placed over a face or a salient region. Additionally in other configurations text legibility may be determined for particular text location and corresponding portion of the image behind the text. Text that is highly legible may result in a higher signal score while illegible text may result in a lower signal score.

Once the signal scores are determined at operation the program module may filter the models based on the signal score. In some configurations models having a signal score that meets a pre determined threshold may be marked for use. As will be described below models that are marked for use may be presented to a user or communicated as an output. For illustrative purposes models that are selected for presentation may be referred to herein as candidates. Any paradigm or technique for filtering the models based on the signal score may be used.

Next at operation the models are communicated as an output. In some configurations the models are presented on a user interface. In such configurations the user interface may display a number of models that are ordered by a ranking that is based on the signal scores. The user interface may also be configured with controls for selecting a desired model for use. It can be appreciated that in some configurations the user interface may include a rendering or transformation of the model. Additional details and examples of other user interfaces are described below and shown in .

As can be appreciated the output generated in operation may involve the communication of the model to one or more software modules such as an authoring tool or different computing devices. It can also be appreciated that operation may save model data to a storage device. The output of operation may include a model. As summarized above a model may be any data structure configured to define one or more viewing parameters of an image. For example a model may define one or more perspectives of the image by emphasizing various features and focal points of one or more regions of interest. For instance a model may focus on a particular element such as a strong line or a model may focus on a combination of elements such as a strong line and a face. In one example a model may define cropping coordinates of an image to bring focus to one or more regions of interest.

Next at operation the program module may obtain feedback associated with the models that were provided as an output in operation . As summarized above multi tiered feedback mechanisms allow for the collection of various forms of input. For instance at a first level an input received in response to the presentation of a model may include a selection of one of the displayed models. An example of a user interface for obtaining feedback at the first level is shown in .

At a second level an input received in response to the presentation of a model may include data indicating user intent which may be interpreted by one or more user gestures. At this level feedback associated with the models may be obtained and used to generate additional models that are based on the interpreted intent. As described below and shown in one or more gestures may be used to bring highlight to a particular element of an image. For example one or more gestures provided by a user may be interpreted by techniques described herein to raise or lower the priority of a feature object or region of interest in a rendered model. As will be described below interpretation of the gesture may influence the program modules to generate additional models focusing on the important features highlighted in the feedback. An example of a user interface for obtaining feedback at this level is shown in .

At a third level an input received in response to the presentation of a model may include explicit instructions. As will be described in more detail below an example of an explicit instruction may include the receipt of specific editing instructions such as cropping coordinates of an image. An example user interface for obtaining feedback at this level is shown in .

Next at operation the program module determines if the routine terminates or continues back to operation where the program module may generate additional models . In some configurations the routine may return to operation if the feedback received at operation includes feedback at the second level. For instance if feedback defining user intent is obtained at operation the feedback is processed along with other signals in operation to generate additional models. However at operation if the obtained feedback is at the first level e.g. a selection of one model or at a third level e.g. explicit cropping instructions the routine terminates. In some implementations manual input from the user can be fully bypassed and the best ranked model can be automatically selected as an output. For example in operation the models may be ranked based on the signal score and one or more models may automatically selected for the generation of the output of operation . In such implementations operations and may not be utilized.

As summarized above the application of one or more signals may be applied to an image such as image of to generate models that bring focus to one or more regions of interest of an image. One or more signals may be applied to an image based on a number of factors including a confidence score associated with one or more regions of interest. As also described above individual signals or combinations of signals may be applied to an input image to generate a model. In addition multiple regions of interest may be aggregated and applied to one or more signals used to generate a model defining a perspective of one or more regions. Illustrative examples of several models are shown and described below with regard to .

Referring now to a number of sample representations of several sample models are provided. Specifically illustrates a first sample representation where the application of the one or more signals creates a model that focuses on the group of people and the sculpture . The second sample representation illustrates an example where the application of the one or more signals creates a model that focuses on the flower the person and the horizon . The third sample representation illustrates an example where the application of the signals creates a model that focuses on the flower positioned in the center of the sample representation. In addition the fourth sample representation illustrates an example where the application of the one or more signals creates a model that focuses on the flower having an off center position.

The seventh sample representation illustrates an example where the application of the signals creates a model that focuses on the person and the group of people . The seventh sample representation may result when there is an aggregation of two or more regions of interest as explained above and shown in . The eighth sample representation also focuses on the person and the group of people . Although the focal distance for the seventh sample representation and the eighth sample representation may be the same the eighth sample representation illustrates a variation in the image position. In this example the person is cutoff by the viewport boundary. As described above such a result may impact the scoring produced in operation .

The interface may be configured to receive an input to select one of the candidates. For instance a user may select the candidate displayed in the preview section by the use of any input mechanism. In a specific example touch enabled features or user controlled gestures may be used to select the candidate by pressing on or near the preview section . In addition the interface may allow a user to drag a candidate from the recommendation section to the preview section . With this type of input the preview section may show a preview of any selected candidate. The user may then select the candidate in the preview section as the selected candidate. Other gestures and user interface features may be used to select one or more candidates.

As described above one or more signals may indicate an intended use. In some configurations such signals may define a single viewport or multiple viewports. illustrates another example interface that may be used when a signal defines multiple layouts. As shown the candidates that are generated and ranked in the above described process are displayed in multiple layouts. The interface may be configured with one or more controls to select a candidate. As can be appreciated the interface may also include the original image and other candidates.

As summarized above techniques described herein obtain and process multiple levels of feedback on the generated models. For instance at a first level an input may be received to select one of the displayed models. At a second level feedback may include user intent which may be interpreted by one or more user gestures. At this level feedback associated with the models may be obtained and used to generate additional models that are based on the interpreted intent. As shown in the following examples this type of feedback enables users to provide general information that may raise or lower priority to one or more regions of interest. At a third level feedback may include explicit instructions such as editing instructions which are also referred to herein as editing parameters. As described above show examples of the first level of feedback A E show examples of the second and third levels of feedback.

In example of a user my bring highlight to one or more regions of interest my drawing circles around one or more regions of interest or create new regions of interest by drawing one or more shapes such as the circles shown in the input image and the candidates shown in the recommendations area . In these examples a first circle is drawn around the person which may be interpreted as a desire to see more candidates including the person.

In another example another circle is drawn around the group of people and the sculpture which may be interpreted as a desire to see more candidates including the group of people and the sculpture. Other gestures may include a circle around an object such as the sculpture and another gesture such as an arrow which may be interpreted as a desire to see more models with the object positioned in a different location. This type of input for example may indicate that the use would like to see more candidates with the desired object following the Rule of Thirds. Although specific markings such as circles are used in this example any shape marking or gesture may be used to show intent which may raise or lower a priority to one or more regions of interest and or signals that may be applied to an image.

As can be appreciated data indicating intent may be received each time an interface is generated. By processing this type of input as shown in the flow diagram of a system utilizing techniques disclosed herein may continually generate a new set of candidates where each iteration generating new models will have a refined view of what the user may be looking for. Each iteration may also consider data from external sources such as a user profile a historical database or other resources to refine the candidates. However at any point the user may also break the cycle by selecting a candidate for use or by entering explicit editing instructions or editing parameters.

As summarized above techniques described herein may utilize the feedback e.g. the input received at operation for machine learning purposes. Generally described implementations of routine of may store and process the feedback to allow the routine to benefit from historical feedback data. In some configurations stored feedback information may be used to influence the techniques described herein to select certain types signals or combinations of signals. For instance if a data store contains a number of feedback entries that indicate a preference for a particular signal e.g. a signal that brings focus to salient regions with text techniques disclosed herein may utilize such data to increase the use of such signals. Conversely if the historical feedback data indicates that certain signals are not desirable e.g. a signal that brings focus to groups of people techniques disclosed herein may utilize such data to minimize or eliminate the use of such signals.

The machine learning features may also involve the use of other data and contextual information. For instance with respect to example of if a user gesture indicates that a particular person is not desired a face recognition technology may be used to identify a profile related to the person in the picture. Such information e.g. any information related to the identified person may be stored in the database. The stored information may be accessed and utilized by the system when other images are processed and based on the feedback and the stored information related to the identified person one or more signals may be used to reduce or eliminate the number of candidates that bring focus to that person. Although these examples are provided for illustrative purposes such examples should not be construed as limiting. It can be appreciated that a preference related to any object or feature of an image or any preference for a signal may be stored and used by techniques described herein.

The computer architecture illustrated in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer architecture such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer architecture further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system and one or more application programs including but not limited to the content creation application program module and a web browser application . The illustrated mass storage device may also store output or a file which may be a content file or a file configured to store an image or other form of media.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer architecture . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a solid state drive a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer architecture .

Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer architecture . For purposes the claims the phrase computer storage medium computer readable storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves signals and or other transitory and or intangible communication media per se.

According to various configurations the computer architecture may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through the network and or another network not shown . The computer architecture may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer architecture also may include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device also not shown in .

It should be appreciated that the software components described herein may when loaded into the CPU and executed transform the CPU and the overall computer architecture from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to facilitate the functionality presented herein. The CPU may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically the CPU may operate as a finite state machine in response to executable instructions contained within the software modules disclosed herein. These computer executable instructions may transform the CPU by specifying how the CPU transitions between states thereby transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .

Encoding the software modules presented herein also may transform the physical structure of the computer readable media presented herein. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable media whether the computer readable media is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software disclosed herein may be encoded on the computer readable media by transforming the physical state of the semiconductor memory. For example the software may transform the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. The software also may transform the physical state of such components in order to store data thereupon.

As another example the computer readable media disclosed herein may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software presented herein may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations also may include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

In light of the above it should be appreciated that many types of physical transformations take place in the computer architecture in order to store and execute the software components presented herein. It also should be appreciated that the computer architecture may include other types of computing devices including hand held computers embedded computer systems personal digital assistants and other types of computing devices known to those skilled in the art. It is also contemplated that the computer architecture may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

According to various implementations the distributed computing environment includes a computing environment operating on in communication with or as part of the network . The network may be or may include the network described above with reference to . The network also can include various access networks. One or more client devices A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as clients can communicate with the computing environment via the network and or other connections not illustrated in . In one illustrated configuration the clients include a computing device A such as a laptop computer a desktop computer or other computing device a slate or tablet computing device tablet computing device B a mobile computing device C such as a mobile telephone a smart phone or other mobile computing device a server computer D and or other devices N. It should be understood that any number of clients can communicate with the computing environment . Two example computing architectures for the clients are illustrated and described herein with reference to . It should be understood that the illustrated clients and computing architectures illustrated and described herein are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way.

In the illustrated configuration the computing environment includes application servers data storage and one or more network interfaces . According to various implementations the functionality of the application servers can be provided by one or more server computers that are executing as part of or in communication with the network . The application servers can host various services virtual machines portals and or other resources. In the illustrated configuration the application servers host one or more virtual machines for hosting applications or other functionality. According to various implementations the virtual machines host one or more applications and or software modules for optimizing a visual perspective of media. It should be understood that this configuration is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The application servers also host or provide access to one or more portals link pages Web sites and or other information Web portals .

According to various implementations the application servers also include one or more mailbox services and one or more messaging services . The mailbox services can include electronic mail email services. The mailbox services also can include various personal information management PIM services including but not limited to calendar services contact management services collaboration services and or other services. The messaging services can include but are not limited to instant messaging services chat services forum services and or other communication services.

The application servers also may include one or more social networking services . The social networking services can include various social networking services including but not limited to services for sharing or posting status updates instant messages links photos videos and or other information services for commenting or displaying interest in articles products blogs or other resources and or other services. In some configurations the social networking services are provided by or include the FACEBOOK social networking service the LINKEDIN professional networking service the MYSPACE social networking service the FOURSQUARE geographic networking service the YAMMER office colleague networking service and the like. In other configurations the social networking services are provided by other services sites and or providers that may or may not be explicitly known as social networking providers. For example some web sites allow users to interact with one another via email chat services and or other means during various activities and or contexts such as reading published articles commenting on goods or services publishing collaboration gaming and the like. Examples of such services include but are not limited to the WINDOWS LIVE service and the XBOX LIVE service from Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. Other services are possible and are contemplated.

The social networking services also can include commenting blogging and or micro blogging services. Examples of such services include but are not limited to the YELP commenting service the KUDZU review service the YAMMER enterprise micro blogging service the TWITTER messaging service the GOOGLE BUZZ service and or other services. It should be appreciated that the above lists of services are not exhaustive and that numerous additional and or alternative social networking services are not mentioned herein for the sake of brevity. As such the above configurations are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way. According to various implementations the social networking services may host one or more applications and or software modules for providing the functionality described herein for optimizing a visual perspective of media. For instance any one of the application servers may communicate or facilitate the functionality and features described herein. For instance a social networking application mail client messaging client or a browser running on a phone or any other client may communicate with a networking service and facilitate the functionality even in part described above with respect to .

As shown in the application servers also can host other services applications portals and or other resources other resources . The other resources can include but are not limited to image processing functionality. It thus can be appreciated that the computing environment can provide integration of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein provided herein with various mailbox messaging social networking and or other services or resources.

As mentioned above the computing environment can include the data storage . According to various implementations the functionality of the data storage is provided by one or more databases operating on or in communication with the network . The functionality of the data storage also can be provided by one or more server computers configured to host data for the computing environment . The data storage can include host or provide one or more real or virtual datastores A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as datastores . The datastores are configured to host data used or created by the content creation application and or other data. Although not illustrated in the datastores also can host or store images data structures algorithms for execution by a recommendation engine and or other data utilized by a content creation program or another module such as the program module . Aspects of the datastores may be associated with a service such as ONEDRIVE DROPBOX or GOOGLEDRIVE.

The computing environment can communicate with or be accessed by the network interfaces . The network interfaces can include various types of network hardware and software for supporting communications between two or more computing devices including but not limited to the clients and the application servers . It should be appreciated that the network interfaces also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and or computer systems.

It should be understood that the distributed computing environment described herein can provide any aspects of the software elements described herein with any number of virtual computing resources and or other distributed computing functionality that can be configured to execute any aspects of the software components disclosed herein. According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the distributed computing environment provides the software functionality described herein as a service to the clients . It should be understood that the clients can include real or virtual machines including but not limited to server computers web servers personal computers mobile computing devices smart phones and or other devices. As such various configurations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein enable any device configured to access the distributed computing environment to utilize the functionality described herein for optimizing a visual perspective of media among other aspects. In one specific example as summarized above techniques described herein may be implemented at least in part by the web browser application of which works in conjunction with the application servers of .

Turning now to an illustrative computing device architecture for a computing device that is capable of executing various software components described herein for optimizing a visual perspective of media. The computing device architecture is applicable to computing devices that facilitate mobile computing due in part to form factor wireless connectivity and or battery powered operation. In some configurations the computing devices include but are not limited to mobile telephones tablet devices slate devices portable video game devices and the like. The computing device architecture is applicable to any of the clients shown in . Moreover aspects of the computing device architecture may be applicable to traditional desktop computers portable computers e.g. laptops notebooks ultra portables and netbooks server computers and other computer systems such as described herein with reference to . For example the single touch and multi touch aspects disclosed herein below may be applied to desktop computers that utilize a touchscreen or some other touch enabled device such as a touch enabled track pad or touch enabled mouse.

The computing device architecture illustrated in includes a processor memory components network connectivity components sensor components input output components and power components . In the illustrated configuration the processor is in communication with the memory components the network connectivity components the sensor components the input output I O components and the power components . Although no connections are shown between the individuals components illustrated in the components can interact to carry out device functions. In some configurations the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown .

The processor includes a central processing unit CPU configured to process data execute computer executable instructions of one or more application programs and communicate with other components of the computing device architecture in order to perform various functionality described herein. The processor may be utilized to execute aspects of the software components presented herein and particularly those that utilize at least in part a touch enabled input.

In some configurations the processor includes a graphics processing unit GPU configured to accelerate operations performed by the CPU including but not limited to operations performed by executing general purpose scientific and or engineering computing applications as well as graphics intensive computing applications such as high resolution video e.g. 720P 1080P and higher resolution video games three dimensional 3D modeling applications and the like. In some configurations the processor is configured to communicate with a discrete GPU not shown . In any case the CPU and GPU may be configured in accordance with a co processing CPU GPU computing model wherein the sequential part of an application executes on the CPU and the computationally intensive part is accelerated by the GPU.

In some configurations the processor is or is included in a system on chip SoC along with one or more of the other components described herein below. For example the SoC may include the processor a GPU one or more of the network connectivity components and one or more of the sensor components . In some configurations the processor is fabricated in part utilizing a package on package PoP integrated circuit packaging technique. The processor may be a single core or multi core processor.

The processor may be created in accordance with an ARM architecture available for license from ARM HOLDINGS of Cambridge United Kingdom. Alternatively the processor may be created in accordance with an x86 architecture such as is available from INTEL CORPORATION of Mountain View Calif. and others. In some configurations the processor is a SNAPDRAGON SoC available from QUALCOMM of San Diego Calif. a TEGRA SoC available from NVIDIA of Santa Clara Calif. a HUMMINGBIRD SoC available from SAMSUNG of Seoul South Korea an Open Multimedia Application Platform OMAP SoC available from TEXAS INSTRUMENTS of Dallas Tex. a customized version of any of the above SoCs or a proprietary SoC.

The memory components include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an integrated storage memory integrated storage and a removable storage memory removable storage . In some configurations the RAM or a portion thereof the ROM or a portion thereof and or some combination the RAM and the ROM is integrated in the processor . In some configurations the ROM is configured to store a firmware an operating system or a portion thereof e.g. operating system kernel and or a bootloader to load an operating system kernel from the integrated storage and or the removable storage .

The integrated storage can include a solid state memory a hard disk or a combination of solid state memory and a hard disk. The integrated storage may be soldered or otherwise connected to a logic board upon which the processor and other components described herein also may be connected. As such the integrated storage is integrated in the computing device. The integrated storage is configured to store an operating system or portions thereof application programs data and other software components described herein.

The removable storage can include a solid state memory a hard disk or a combination of solid state memory and a hard disk. In some configurations the removable storage is provided in lieu of the integrated storage . In other configurations the removable storage is provided as additional optional storage. In some configurations the removable storage is logically combined with the integrated storage such that the total available storage is made available as a total combined storage capacity. In some configurations the total combined capacity of the integrated storage and the removable storage is shown to a user instead of separate storage capacities for the integrated storage and the removable storage .

The removable storage is configured to be inserted into a removable storage memory slot not shown or other mechanism by which the removable storage is inserted and secured to facilitate a connection over which the removable storage can communicate with other components of the computing device such as the processor . The removable storage may be embodied in various memory card formats including but not limited to PC card CompactFlash card memory stick secure digital SD miniSD microSD universal integrated circuit card UICC e.g. a subscriber identity module SIM or universal SIM USIM a proprietary format or the like.

It can be understood that one or more of the memory components can store an operating system. According to various configurations the operating system includes but is not limited to SYMBIAN OS from SYMBIAN LIMITED WINDOWS MOBILE OS from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. WINDOWS PHONE OS from Microsoft Corporation WINDOWS from Microsoft Corporation PALM WEBOS from Hewlett Packard Company of Palo Alto Calif. BLACKBERRY OS from Research In Motion Limited of Waterloo Ontario Canada IOS from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and ANDROID OS from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Other operating systems are contemplated.

The network connectivity components include a wireless wide area network component WWAN component a wireless local area network component WLAN component and a wireless personal area network component WPAN component . The network connectivity components facilitate communications to and from the network or another network which may be a WWAN a WLAN or a WPAN. Although only the network is illustrated the network connectivity components may facilitate simultaneous communication with multiple networks including the network of . For example the network connectivity components may facilitate simultaneous communications with multiple networks via one or more of a WWAN a WLAN or a WPAN.

The network may be or may include a WWAN such as a mobile telecommunications network utilizing one or more mobile telecommunications technologies to provide voice and or data services to a computing device utilizing the computing device architecture via the WWAN component . The mobile telecommunications technologies can include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA ONE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . Moreover the network may utilize various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like. Data communications may be provided using General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA LTE and various other current and future wireless data access standards. The network may be configured to provide voice and or data communications with any combination of the above technologies. The network may be configured to or adapted to provide voice and or data communications in accordance with future generation technologies.

In some configurations the WWAN component is configured to provide dual multi mode connectivity to the network . For example the WWAN component may be configured to provide connectivity to the network wherein the network provides service via GSM and UMTS technologies or via some other combination of technologies. Alternatively multiple WWAN components may be utilized to perform such functionality and or provide additional functionality to support other non compatible technologies i.e. incapable of being supported by a single WWAN component . The WWAN component may facilitate similar connectivity to multiple networks e.g. a UMTS network and an LTE network .

The network may be a WLAN operating in accordance with one or more Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards such as IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n and or future 802.11 standard referred to herein collectively as WI FI . Draft 802.11 standards are also contemplated. In some configurations the WLAN is implemented utilizing one or more wireless WI FI access points. In some configurations one or more of the wireless WI FI access points are another computing device with connectivity to a WWAN that are functioning as a WI FI hotspot. The WLAN component is configured to connect to the network via the WI FI access points. Such connections may be secured via various encryption technologies including but not limited WI FI Protected Access WPA WPA2 Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP and the like.

The network may be a WPAN operating in accordance with Infrared Data Association IrDA BLUETOOTH wireless Universal Serial Bus USB Z Wave ZIGBEE or some other short range wireless technology. In some configurations the WPAN component is configured to facilitate communications with other devices such as peripherals computers or other computing devices via the WPAN.

The sensor components include a magnetometer an ambient light sensor a proximity sensor an accelerometer a gyroscope and a Global Positioning System sensor GPS sensor . It is contemplated that other sensors such as but not limited to temperature sensors or shock detection sensors also may be incorporated in the computing device architecture .

The magnetometer is configured to measure the strength and direction of a magnetic field. In some configurations the magnetometer provides measurements to a compass application program stored within one of the memory components in order to provide a user with accurate directions in a frame of reference including the cardinal directions north south east and west. Similar measurements may be provided to a navigation application program that includes a compass component. Other uses of measurements obtained by the magnetometer are contemplated.

The ambient light sensor is configured to measure ambient light. In some configurations the ambient light sensor provides measurements to an application program stored within one the memory components in order to automatically adjust the brightness of a display described below to compensate for low light and high light environments. Other uses of measurements obtained by the ambient light sensor are contemplated.

The proximity sensor is configured to detect the presence of an object or thing in proximity to the computing device without direct contact. In some configurations the proximity sensor detects the presence of a user s body e.g. the user s face and provides this information to an application program stored within one of the memory components that utilizes the proximity information to enable or disable some functionality of the computing device. For example a telephone application program may automatically disable a touchscreen described below in response to receiving the proximity information so that the user s face does not inadvertently end a call or enable disable other functionality within the telephone application program during the call. Other uses of proximity as detected by the proximity sensor are contemplated.

The accelerometer is configured to measure proper acceleration. In some configurations output from the accelerometer is used by an application program as an input mechanism to control some functionality of the application program. For example the application program may be a video game in which a character a portion thereof or an object is moved or otherwise manipulated in response to input received via the accelerometer . In some configurations output from the accelerometer is provided to an application program for use in switching between landscape and portrait modes calculating coordinate acceleration or detecting a fall. Other uses of the accelerometer are contemplated.

The gyroscope is configured to measure and maintain orientation. In some configurations output from the gyroscope is used by an application program as an input mechanism to control some functionality of the application program. For example the gyroscope can be used for accurate recognition of movement within a 3D environment of a video game application or some other application. In some configurations an application program utilizes output from the gyroscope and the accelerometer to enhance control of some functionality of the application program. Other uses of the gyroscope are contemplated.

The GPS sensor is configured to receive signals from GPS satellites for use in calculating a location. The location calculated by the GPS sensor may be used by any application program that requires or benefits from location information. For example the location calculated by the GPS sensor may be used with a navigation application program to provide directions from the location to a destination or directions from the destination to the location. Moreover the GPS sensor may be used to provide location information to an external location based service such as E911 service. The GPS sensor may obtain location information generated via WI FI WIMAX and or cellular triangulation techniques utilizing one or more of the network connectivity components to aid the GPS sensor in obtaining a location fix. The GPS sensor may also be used in Assisted GPS A GPS systems.

The I O components include a display a touchscreen a data I O interface component data I O an audio I O interface component audio I O a video I O interface component video I O and a camera . In some configurations the display and the touchscreen are combined. In some configurations two or more of the data I O component the audio I O component and the video I O component are combined. The I O components may include discrete processors configured to support the various interface described below or may include processing functionality built in to the processor .

The display is an output device configured to present information in a visual form. In particular the display may present graphical user interface GUI elements text images video notifications virtual buttons virtual keyboards messaging data Internet content device status time date calendar data preferences map information location information and any other information that is capable of being presented in a visual form. In some configurations the display is a liquid crystal display LCD utilizing any active or passive matrix technology and any backlighting technology if used . In some configurations the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. Other display types are contemplated.

The touchscreen also referred to herein as a touch enabled screen is an input device configured to detect the presence and location of a touch. The touchscreen may be a resistive touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen a surface acoustic wave touchscreen an infrared touchscreen an optical imaging touchscreen a dispersive signal touchscreen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or may utilize any other touchscreen technology. In some configurations the touchscreen is incorporated on top of the display as a transparent layer to enable a user to use one or more touches to interact with objects or other information presented on the display . In other configurations the touchscreen is a touch pad incorporated on a surface of the computing device that does not include the display . For example the computing device may have a touchscreen incorporated on top of the display and a touch pad on a surface opposite the display .

In some configurations the touchscreen is a single touch touchscreen. In other configurations the touchscreen is a multi touch touchscreen. In some configurations the touchscreen is configured to detect discrete touches single touch gestures and or multi touch gestures. These are collectively referred to herein as gestures for convenience. Several gestures will now be described. It should be understood that these gestures are illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the described gestures additional gestures and or alternative gestures may be implemented in software for use with the touchscreen . As such a developer may create gestures that are specific to a particular application program.

In some configurations the touchscreen supports a tap gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen once on an item presented on the display . The tap gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to opening or launching whatever the user taps. In some configurations the touchscreen supports a double tap gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen twice on an item presented on the display . The double tap gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to zooming in or zooming out in stages. In some configurations the touchscreen supports a tap and hold gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen and maintains contact for at least a pre defined time. The tap and hold gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to opening a context specific menu.

In some configurations the touchscreen supports a pan gesture in which a user places a finger on the touchscreen and maintains contact with the touchscreen while moving the finger on the touchscreen . The pan gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to moving through screens images or menus at a controlled rate. Multiple finger pan gestures are also contemplated. In some configurations the touchscreen supports a flick gesture in which a user swipes a finger in the direction the user wants the screen to move. The flick gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to scrolling horizontally or vertically through menus or pages. In some configurations the touchscreen supports a pinch and stretch gesture in which a user makes a pinching motion with two fingers e.g. thumb and forefinger on the touchscreen or moves the two fingers apart. The pinch and stretch gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to zooming gradually in or out of a website map or picture.

Although the above gestures have been described with reference to the use one or more fingers for performing the gestures other appendages such as toes or objects such as styluses may be used to interact with the touchscreen . As such the above gestures should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The data I O interface component is configured to facilitate input of data to the computing device and output of data from the computing device. In some configurations the data I O interface component includes a connector configured to provide wired connectivity between the computing device and a computer system for example for synchronization operation purposes. The connector may be a proprietary connector or a standardized connector such as USB micro USB mini USB or the like. In some configurations the connector is a dock connector for docking the computing device with another device such as a docking station audio device e.g. a digital music player or video device.

The audio I O interface component is configured to provide audio input and or output capabilities to the computing device. In some configurations the audio I O interface component includes a microphone configured to collect audio signals. In some configurations the audio I O interface component includes a headphone jack configured to provide connectivity for headphones or other external speakers. In some configurations the audio I O interface component includes a speaker for the output of audio signals. In some configurations the audio I O interface component includes an optical audio cable out.

The video I O interface component is configured to provide video input and or output capabilities to the computing device. In some configurations the video I O interface component includes a video connector configured to receive video as input from another device e.g. a video media player such as a DVD or BLURAY player or send video as output to another device e.g. a monitor a television or some other external display . In some configurations the video I O interface component includes a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI mini HDMI micro HDMI DisplayPort or proprietary connector to input output video content. In some configurations the video I O interface component or portions thereof is combined with the audio I O interface component or portions thereof.

The camera can be configured to capture still images and or video. The camera may utilize a charge coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensor to capture images. In some configurations the camera includes a flash to aid in taking pictures in low light environments. Settings for the camera may be implemented as hardware or software buttons.

Although not illustrated one or more hardware buttons may also be included in the computing device architecture . The hardware buttons may be used for controlling some operational aspect of the computing device. The hardware buttons may be dedicated buttons or multi use buttons. The hardware buttons may be mechanical or sensor based.

The illustrated power components include one or more batteries which can be connected to a battery gauge . The batteries may be rechargeable or disposable. Rechargeable battery types include but are not limited to lithium polymer lithium ion nickel cadmium and nickel metal hydride. Each of the batteries may be made of one or more cells.

The battery gauge can be configured to measure battery parameters such as current voltage and temperature. In some configurations the battery gauge is configured to measure the effect of a battery s discharge rate temperature age and other factors to predict remaining life within a certain percentage of error. In some configurations the battery gauge provides measurements to an application program that is configured to utilize the measurements to present useful power management data to a user. Power management data may include one or more of a percentage of battery used a percentage of battery remaining a battery condition a remaining time a remaining capacity e.g. in watt hours a current draw and a voltage.

The power components may also include a power connector which may be combined with one or more of the aforementioned I O components . The power components may interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component.

Clause 1 A computer implemented method comprising obtaining data defining an intended use of an image determining a plurality of regions of the image by applying a plurality of signals to the image determining a confidence score for individual regions of the plurality of regions and generating a plurality of models wherein individual models of the plurality of models define at least one selected region of the image and wherein the at least one selected region is based on at least in part the intended use and the confidence score for the at least one selected region.

Clause 2 The example of clause 1 wherein individual models of the plurality of models are generated by applying one or more signals to the image to define the at least one selected region of the image and wherein the computer implemented method further comprises determining a signal score for individual models of the plurality of models filtering individual models based on the signal score to determine selected models and displaying a transformation of the selected models wherein an order of the display of the selected models is based on the signal score.

Clause 3 The example of clauses 1 and 2 wherein the signal score is based on a success rating for the plurality of signals that are applied to the image.

Clause 4 The example of clauses 1 3 further comprising displaying a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models and receiving a selection of a single model of the plurality of models.

Clause 5 The example of clauses 1 4 further comprising displaying a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models on an interface receiving at the interface a gesture input indicating an intent directed toward one or more regions associated with at least one model and in response to the gesture input generating additional models based on the intent.

Clause 6 The example of clauses 1 5 further comprising displaying a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models receiving an edit parameter for the image and generating a model based on the edit parameter.

Clause 7 The example of clauses 1 6 wherein determining the plurality of regions of the image comprises utilizing signals for identifying a salient region an invariant region a strong line or a subject included in the image.

Clause 8 A computer comprising a processor and a computer readable storage medium in communication with the processor the computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions stored thereupon which when executed by the processor cause the computer to obtain data defining an intended use of an image determine a plurality of regions of the image by applying a plurality of signals to the image determine a confidence score for individual regions of the plurality of regions and generate a plurality of models wherein individual models of the plurality of models define at least one selected region of the image and wherein the at least one selected region is based on at least in part the intended use and the confidence score for the at least one selected region.

Clause 9 The computer of clause 8 wherein individual models of the plurality of models are generated by applying one or more signals to the image to define the at least one selected region of the image and wherein the computer readable storage medium has further computer executable instructions stored thereupon which when executed by the processor cause the computer to determine a signal score for individual models of the plurality of models filter individual models based on the signal score to determine selected models and display a transformation of the selected models wherein an order of display of the selected models is based on the signal score.

Clause 10 The computer of clauses 8 9 wherein the signal score is based on a success rating success rating for the one or more signals that are applied to the image.

Clause 11 The computer of clauses 8 10 wherein the computer readable storage medium has further computer executable instructions stored thereupon which when executed by the processor cause the computer to display a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models and receive a selection of a single model of the plurality of models.

Clause 12 The computer of clauses 8 11 wherein the computer readable storage medium has further computer executable instructions stored thereupon which when executed by the processor cause the computer to display a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models on an interface receive at the interface a gesture input indicating an intent directed toward one or more regions associated with at least one model and generate one or more additional models based on the intent in response to the gesture input.

Clause 13 The computer of clauses 8 12 wherein the computer readable storage medium has further computer executable instructions stored thereupon which when executed by the processor cause the computer to display a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models receive an edit parameter for the image and generate a model based on the edit parameter.

Clause 14 The computer of clauses 8 13 wherein determining the plurality of regions of the image comprises utilizing signals for identifying a salient region an invariant region a strong line or a subject included in the image.

Clause 15 A computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions stored thereupon which when executed by a computer cause the computer to obtain data defining an intended use of an image determine a plurality of regions of the image by applying a plurality of signals to the image determine a confidence score for individual regions of the plurality of regions and generate a plurality of models wherein individual models of the plurality of models define at least one selected region of the image and wherein the at least one selected region is based on at least in part the intended use and the confidence score for the at least one selected region.

Clause 16 The computer readable storage medium of clause 15 wherein individual models of the plurality of models are generated by applying one or more signals to the image to define the at least one selected region of the image and wherein the computer readable storage medium comprises further computer executable instructions stored thereupon for causing the computer to determine a signal score for individual models of the plurality of models filter individual models based on the signal score to determine selected models and display a transformation of the selected models wherein an order of the display of the selected models is based on the signal score.

Clause 17 The computer readable storage medium of clauses 15 16 wherein the computer readable storage medium comprises further computer executable instructions stored thereupon for causing the computer to display a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models and receive a selection of a signal model of the plurality of models.

Clause 18 The computer readable storage medium of clauses 15 17 wherein the computer readable storage medium comprises further computer executable instructions stored thereupon for causing the computer to display a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models on an interface receive at the interface a gesture input indicating an intent directed toward one or more regions associated with at least one model and generate one or more additional models based on the intent in response to the gesture input.

Clause 19 The computer readable storage medium of clauses 15 18 wherein the computer readable storage medium comprises further computer executable instructions stored thereupon for causing the computer to display a transformation of individual models of the plurality of models receive an edit parameter for the image and generate a model based on the edit parameter.

Clause 20 The computer readable storage medium of clauses 15 19 wherein the computer readable storage medium comprises further computer executable instructions stored thereupon for causing the computer to store data defining the intent in a datastore obtain data defining a second intended use of a second image determine a plurality of regions of the second image by applying a plurality of signals to the image wherein the selection of at least one region of the plurality of regions based at least in part on the intent and generate at least one model from the second image based on the plurality of regions of the second image.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that concepts and technologies have been disclosed herein for optimizing a visual perspective of media. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example configurations and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

