---

title: Personalized text-to-speech services
abstract: A personalized text-to-speech (pTTS) system provides a method for converting text data to speech data utilizing a pTTS template representing the voice characteristics of an individual. A memory stores executable program code that converts text data to speech data. Text data represents a textual message directed to a system user and speech data represents a spoken form of text data having the characteristics of an individual's voice. A processor executes the program code, and a storage device stores a pTTS template and may store speech data. The pTTS system can be used to provide various services that provide immediate spoken presentation of the speech data converted from text data and/or combine stored speech data with generated speech data for spoken presentation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09214154&OS=09214154&RS=09214154
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property II, L.P.
number: 09214154
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141210
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 773 filed Jun. 20 2007 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 09 793 168 filed Feb. 26 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 277 855 issued on Oct. 2 2007 which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 09 608 210 filed Jun. 30 2000 now abandoned the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to text to speech conversion and more particularly is directed to services using a template for personalized text to speech conversion.

Text To Speech TTS systems for converting text into synthesized speech are entering the mainstream of advanced telecommunications applications. A typical TTS system proceeds through several steps for converting text into synthesized speech. First a TTS system may include a text normalization procedure for processing input text into a standardized format. The TTS system may perform linguistic processing such as syntactic analysis word pronunciation and prosodic prediction including phrasing and accentuation. Next the system performs a prosody generation procedure which involves translation between the symbolic text representation to numerical values of a fundamental frequency duration and amplitude. Thereafter speech is synthesized using a speech database or template comprising concatenation of a small set of controlled units such as diphones. Increasing the size and complexity of the speech template may provide improved speech synthesis. Examples of TTS systems are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 003 005 entitled Text To Speech System And A Method And Apparatus For Training The Same Based Upon Intonational Feature Annotations Of Input Text and U.S. Pat. No. 5 774 854 entitled Text To Speech System which are hereby incorporated by reference. Additional information about TTS systems may be found in Talking Machines Theories Models and Designs ed G. Bailly and C. Benuit North Holland Elsevier 1992.

In accordance with an aspect of this invention there are provided a method of and a system for providing services using a template for personalized text to speech conversion.

In general in a first aspect the invention features a method for converting text to speech including receiving data representing a textual message that is directed from an author to

a recipient receiving information identifying an individual retrieving a speech template comprising information representing characteristics of the individual s voice and converting the data representing the textual message to speech data. The speech data represents a spoken form of the textual message having the characteristics of the individual s voice.

In a second aspect the invention features a text to speech conversion system including a memory that stores executable program code a processor that executes the program code and a storage device that stores a speech template comprising information representing characteristics of the individual s voice. The individual is identified by identification data. The program code is executable to convert text data to speech data. The text data represents a textual message directed from an author to a recipient and the speech data represents a spoken form of the text data having the characteristics of the individual s voice.

In a third aspect the invention features an article of manufacture including a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied therein. The computer usable program code contains executable instructions that when executed cause a computer to perform the methods described herein.

In a fourth aspect the invention features a method for generating speech data for a voice response system including receiving input from a recipient generating a text message that provides a response to the input selecting a speech template comprising information representing characteristics of a voice based at least in part on attributes of the recipient such as age or gender and converting the text message to speech data. The speech data represents a spoken form of the textual message having the characteristics of the voice.

In a fifth aspect the invention features a method for converting chat room text to speech including storing a plurality of speech templates each speech template comprising information representing characteristics of a chat room participant s voice receiving the chat room text from an author who is a chat room participant retrieving a speech template comprising information representing characteristics of the author s voice from the plurality of speech templates and converting the chat room text to speech data. The speech data represents a spoken form of the textual message having the characteristics of the author s voice.

In a sixth aspect the invention features a method for providing spoken electronic mail including receiving an electronic text message addressed to a recipient from an author of the message retrieving a speech template comprising information representing characteristics of the author s voice converting the text message to speech data representing a spoken form of the textual message having the characteristics of the author s voice and directing the speech data to the recipient.

In a seventh aspect the invention features a method for providing speech output from a software application including receiving text data from the software application receiving information identifying an individual retrieving a speech template comprising information representing characteristics of the individual s voice converting the text data to speech data representing a spoken form of the text data having the characteristics of the individual s voice and supplying the speech data to an output device for output to a user as audio information. The software application may comprise an interactive learning program.

Preferred embodiments of the invention additionally feature the author interacting with a first computer and the recipient interacting with a second computer which is coupled to the first computer through a data network. The speech template may be provided at a central location coupled to the first and second computers. Text data may be received at the central location from either the first or second computer and the speech data may be transmitted to the first or second computer from the central location. Alternatively the speech template may be provided at the first computer and either the speech data or the speech template may be transmitted to second computer from the first computer. Alternatively the speech template may be provided at the second computer and the data representing the textual message may be received at the second computer.

In other embodiments the first and second computers may communicate in an instant messaging format or they may be coupled to a server configured to operate chat room software with the text data comprising text input to the chat room. The server may store speech templates for users of the chat room. The first and second computers may be coupled to a server adapted to store and provide access to a shared space object that is associated with the textual message. The data representing the textual message may also be an e mail message.

In other embodiments the recipient interacts with a telephone coupled to a telephone network and the author interacts with a computer coupled to the telephone network through a data network. Input from the recipient may comprise telephone key depression or speech. The speech data may be directed to the telephone network through the data network. A notification may be transmitted to the author when the recipient is unable to connect with a telephone of the author and the text data may be received in response to the notification message.

In other embodiments the author may be defined as executable program code designed to generate text in response to input from the recipient. The individual may be selected based on attributes of the recipient such as age or gender. The data representing the textual message may comprise a variable portion of a message having both a variable portion and a fixed portion and it may further include the fixed portion. The fixed portion may be prerecorded speech of the individual or speech data previously converted from text data according to the various methods of the invention. The instant invention is also directed to pTTS systems that store prerecorded speech or previously converted speech data and as appropriate in response to a request to generate speech data combine the stored information with speech data converted in real time from text data. The resultant speech data is then provided to a system user as audio output.

It is not intended that the invention be summarized here in its entirety. Rather further features aspects and advantages of the invention are set forth in or will be apparent from the following description and drawings.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a personalized text to speech pTTS system provides text to speech conversion for use with various services. These services discussed in detail below include but are not limited to speech announcements film dubbing Internet person to person spoken messaging Internet chat room spoken text spoken electronic mail Internet shared spaces having objects intended for spoken presentation and spoken notice of an incoming telephone call to a subscriber using the Internet.

Alternatively the recipient may be unknown to the author. For example the author may post the text data on a web site for access by unspecified users.

In step the pTTS system identifies the author of the text data for enabling identification of the proper pTTS template. In one embodiment the pTTS system identifies the author using the author s e mail address. Alternatively the pTTS system requests confirmation of the author s identification by taking advantage of a user identification and or password. In another alternative embodiment the author s identification is transmitted with the text data in a predefined format. The identification step may additionally serve as an authentication or authorization step to prevent unauthorized access to saved pTTS templates.

After the pTTS system identifies the author the pTTS system retrieves a stored speech template associated with the author step referred to herein as the author s pTTS template. The author s pTTS template is a data file containing information representing voice characteristics of the author or voice characteristics selected by the author. Multiple pTTS templates are stored in the pTTS system for utilization by different users. In an alternative embodiment the pTTS system provides the author with the option to generate a new pTTS template using methods known in the art. In another alternative embodiment an author has more than one pTTS template representing different types of speech or different voice characteristics. For example an author provides pTTS templates having speech characteristics corresponding to different languages. An author having multiple pTTS templates selects the appropriate pTTS template for the applicable text data. Alternatively the author may have more than one user identification for accessing the pTTS system each associated with a different pTTS template.

After retrieving the author s pTTS template the pTTS system generates speech data step corresponding to the text data. The pTTS system takes advantage of the author s pTTS template to generate the speech data in a format that may be audibly reproduced having voice characteristics represented by the selected template. For example the speech data may be represented by data in the format of a standard .wav file. Thereafter the speech data is output from the pTTS system step and transmitted to the appropriate destination.

Referring to stand alone personal computer has memory and storage such as magnetic optical or magneto optical storage. Storage includes at least one pTTS template . Personal computer is programmed to select an appropriate pTTS template which may be based on various factors such as attributes of the author or recipient of the message. Conversion routine executing in memory accepts text data and converts the text data to speech data with pTTS template following the procedure outlined in .

The pTTS system may take advantage of different pTTS templates to output different sentences of text in different voices thereby providing output in the form of a multi person conversation.

Personal computer generates the sound corresponding to the speech data thereby enabling a recipient interacting with personal computer to hear the spoken message.

Referring to an embodiment includes an author of a text message interacting with a first computer and an intended recipient of the message interacting with a second computer . Computers and are coupled to data network through Internet service provider and Internet service provider respectively. In alternative embodiments the data network may comprise the Internet a company s internal data network or a combination of several networks.

Server couples to data network . Server is a general purpose computer programmed to function as a web site. Server also couples to storage device such as a magnetic optical or magneto optical storage device. Storage device stores a pTTS template associated with the author and may additionally store pTTS templates associated with other users. In an alternative embodiment computer transmits the author s pTTS template to server each time pTTS template is needed rather than storing pTTS template on storage device .

The author interacting with computer generates text data intended for the recipient interacting with computer . Rather than transmitting the text data directly to computer the text data is directed through data network to server for conversion to speech data. Conversion routine executing in memory of server accepts the text data and converts the text data to speech data with the author s pTTS template using the process described in . The speech data thus contains information representing the voice characteristics of the author s speech template. Server thereafter directs the speech data to computer . Server may also send the original text data to computer if desired. The recipient may listen to the speech message corresponding to the original text message with software executing on computer in the author s own voice or a voice selected by the author.

In an alternative embodiment computer sends the text file directly to computer through data network . Computer provides the necessary information for accessing the author s pTTS template stored on storage of server to computer thereby allowing the recipient to obtain speech data having characteristics of the author s voice.

The recipient interacting with computer submits the text data to server through data network for conversion to speech data with conversion routine and the author s pTTS template . Server thereafter directs the speech data back to computer for access by the recipient.

In another alternative embodiment the text message is sent from computer to server . After converting the text data to speech data with conversion routine and the author s pTTS template server returns the resulting speech data back to computer .

Referring to in an alternative embodiment storage device coupled to computer stores the author s pTTS template . Alternatively computer downloads the author s pTTS template from server when necessary for conversion of text to speech. Conversion routine executes in memory of computer for conversion of text data from the author into speech data. Therefore computer sends the speech data directly to computer .

Referring to in an alternative embodiment storage device coupled to computer stores the author s pTTS template . Computer separately sends the author s pTTS template to computer . Alternatively computer downloads the author s pTTS template from server . Conversion routine executes in memory of computer for converting text data received from computer into speech data. Therefore computer simply sends the text data to computer which computer converts to speech data if desired.

Referring to in an alternative embodiment server is further coupled to public switched telephone network PSTN . Telephone is also coupled to PSTN .

In one embodiment PSTN operates in a circuit switched manner whereas data network operates in a packet switched manner.

The embodiments illustrated herein describe computers coupled to a data network or coupled together through a data network. Coupling is defined herein as the ability to share information either in real time or asynchronously. Coupling includes any form of connection either by wire or by means of electromagnetic or optical communications and does not require that both computers are connected with the network at the same time. For example a first and second computer are coupled together if a first computer accesses a network to send text data to an e mail server and the second computer retrieves such text data or speech data associated therewith after the first computer has physically disconnected from the network.

The pTTS system described herein may provide a wide array of individualized services. For example personalized templates are submitted with text to a known text to speech algorithm thereby producing individualized speech from generic text. Therefore a user of the system may have a single pTTS template for use with text from a multitude of sources. Some of the uses of the pTTS system are discussed below.

In one embodiment personal computer of is configured to operate as a voice response system. For example personal computer is placed at a kiosk and provides spoken delivery of stored information. As another example personal computer is coupled to the PSTN and configured to operate as a voice response system in response to user input provided via telephone key depression or speech. Voice response software is well known. Examples of voice response systems are described by U.S. Pat. No. 6 014 428 entitled Voice Templates For Interactive Voice Mail And Voice Response System and U.S. Pat. No. 5 125 024 entitled Voice Response Unit which are hereby incorporated by reference.

According to the present technique the voice response software of personal computer includes conversion routine which is configured to use a pTTS template stored on storage . In one embodiment the pTTS template represents the voice characteristics of the author. Alternatively the pTTS template represents voice characteristics selected by the author or the provider of the voice response system. For example the system may select a pTTS template representing voice characteristics of a person similar to the user of the system for example of the same gender or of a similar age. Alternatively the system selects a pTTS template predicted to elicit a certain response from the user which may be based on marketing or psychological studies. Alternatively the system allows the user to select which pTTS template to use.

The voice response system converts variable text messages to speech with a pTTS template. Some messages may contain both a variable portion and a fixed portion. One example of such message is Your account balance is xx dollars and yy cents where xx and yy are variable numerical values. In one embodiment the entire text message comprising both the variable and fixed portions is submitted to the pTTS system for conversion to speech data.

Alternatively the fixed portions are prerecorded speech and only the variable portions are submitted as text to the pTTS system for conversion to speech data using the same voice that recorded the fixed portion of the message. A single audible message may be output by merging the prerecorded speech and generated speech data. In another embodiment the entire text message is fixed text. Submitting such text to the pTTS system allows selecting the desired pTTS template based upon the factors as described above.

In another embodiment personal computer of is configured to operate as part of a film editing system. Specifically personal computer operates to dub voices for films with foreign language subtitles. The pTTS templates of the actors are stored in storage and used to produce speech data corresponding to the subtitles thereby creating a multi lingual soundtrack. In one embodiment the lines of the actors are stored in a text file. An electronic code precedes each actor s lines thereby identifying each portion of text with the correct actor. The code enables conversion routine to select the correct pTTS template associated with the actor speaking a particular set of lines. The actors may need to produce different templates for each language due to the different pronunciation characteristics of words in different languages. Timing information may be included in the text file to aid in the production of speech data that is properly synchronized with the film. In an alternative embodiment a person s pTTS template may be used for different animated characters in animated films.

In an alternative embodiment computer and computer are each configured with software for exchanging typed messages over data network in a so called instant message format. Software that enables personal computers to exchange messages in this manner is well known.

In the configuration shown in the author types a text message using computer for delivery to computer . However rather than sending the message directly to computer computer directs the message through data network to server . Conversion routine executing in memory of server converts the text data to speech data using the author s pTTS template stored on storage . Server thereafter directs the speech data to computer . A person interacting with computer may also act as the initiator of a message in which case such person s pTTS template is also stored on storage of server . Messages directed to computer are first directed to server for conversion to speech data using the appropriate pTTS template.

In the configuration shown in the author types a text message using computer for delivery to computer . However rather than sending the text message to a centralized server the message is converted to speech data by conversion routine executing in memory of computer . The author s pTTS template is stored on storage of computer for access by conversion routine . Therefore computer sends the speech data directly to computer through data network . A person interacting with computer may also act as the initiator of a message in which case the message is converted to speech data by the conversion routine executing in memory of computer using the appropriate pTTS template.

In the configuration shown in the author types a text message using computer which is sent directly to computer through data network . The author s pTTS template is stored on storage of computer . Therefore conversion routine executing in memory of computer converts the text data to speech data. Alternatively computer may direct the text data to server for conversion to speech data using the author s pTTS template on storage of server . Server then redirects the speech data back to computer . As in the other configurations a person interacting with computer may also act as the initiator of the message.

In an alternative embodiment server is operative to execute so called Chat software. In general the Chat software enables a user to enter a chat room view messages input by other users who are in the chat room and to type messages for display to all other users in the chat room. The set of users in the chat room varies as users enter or leave.

Each Chat implementation architecture provides a Chat Client program and a Chat Server program. The Chat Client program allows the user to input information and control which Chat Client users will receive such information. Chat Client user groupings which may be referred to as chat rooms or worlds are the basis of the user control. A user controls which Chat users will receive the typed information by becoming a member of the group that contains the target users. A Chat user becomes a member of a group by executing a Chat Client join group function. This function registers the Client s internet protocol IP address with the Chat Server as a member of that group. Once registered the Client can send and receive information with all the other Clients in that group via the Chat Server. The exchange of information between the Clients and Server is based on the Internet Relay Chat IRC protocol running over separate input and output ports.

According to the present technique at least one user in the chat room has access to a computer operative to generate speech with the user s pTTS template.

In the configuration shown in server acts as the chat room. Storage stores the pTTS templates for each user in the chat room. A user s pTTS template is transferred to server when the user signs in to the chat room. Server stores the pTTS templates of frequent users to avoid the necessity of submitting the pTTS template each time a user signs in. Thereafter as each user submits text data to the chat room conversion routine executing in memory of server converts the text data to speech data using the submitter s pTTS template. Therefore each user can access messages from other users having the voice characteristics of the corresponding user. The server may also provide text messages in the event that some users do not provide a pTTS template. The personalized speech may be delivered as an audio file in .wav format or other suitable format. Alternatively the personalized speech may be delivered from server as streaming audio.

In the configuration shown in server acts as the chat room. However the pTTS template of each user is stored on storage of the user s computer . In an alternative embodiment the user s pTTS template is downloaded from server as the user enters the chat room. As the user leaves the chat room server notifies the user s computer. that the pTTS template is no longer needed so that it may be deleted from. storage .

In the configuration shown in server acts as the chat room. Server stores the pTTS template of each user in storage . When a user enters the chat room the user downloads the pTTS templates of each user in the chat room and stores the pTTS templates on storage of the user s computer . Messages are submitted to server in text format and read by the user s computer in text format. However when computer receives messages typed by another user in the chat room such as a user interacting with computer computer generates speech corresponding to the text of the message using the author s pTTS template stored on storage .

In an alternative embodiment personalized speech is delivered to a telephone only participant in the chat room interacting through telephone . Automated speech recognition ASR functions and pTTS functions interface with the standard Chat architecture via Chat Proxy . Chat Proxy establishes the Chat session with the Chat Server joins the appropriate group and establishes an input session with ASR and an output session with the pTTS functions. ASR converts the phone speech to text and sends the output to Chat Proxy . Chat Proxy takes the text stream from ASR and delivers it to the Chat Server input port using IRC. Chat Proxy also converts the IRC stream from the Chat Server output port into the original typed text and delivers it to the pTTS function where the text is played to the phone user in the Chat Client user s voice.

Electronic mail systems having a text to speech front end that allows a user to retrieve their electronic mail using a telephone are known. However in an embodiment of the present invention a user may listen to electronic mail in the author s own voice. For example a parent that is away from home may send an e mail message to a child who is then able to listen to the message in the parent s own voice.

Referring to let it be assumed that the user of computer composes an electronic mail message indicates a preferred delivery time and also indicates that it is to be delivered via speech to a particular telephone number such as the telephone number associated with telephone . The user of computer sends this message via ISP and data network to server . Server stores the message in storage . At the preferred delivery time server retrieves the message from storage and also retrieves the author s pTTS template from storage . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the message and the pTTS template may be stored on different storage devices. Server uses the author s retrieved pTTS template to generate speech corresponding to the retrieved message. Specifically conversion routine executing in memory of server converts the text message to speech data. Server then places a telephone call using PSTN to telephone and delivers the personalized speech.

In an alternative embodiment spoken electronic mail is implemented as person to person spoken messaging as described above with reference to .

A shared space is a location on the Internet where members of a group can store objects so that other members of the group can access those objects. A chat room is an example of a real time shared space location although a shared space provides additional flexibility by allowing storage of objects for future access. Such Internet hosting systems that allow users to upload objects and control object access are known.

In an embodiment of the present invention a user creates an object and associates the user s pTTS template with the object. The object pTTS template association may be to the object text file and or an object description text file describing the object . The user uploads the object and the user s associated pTTS template to the Internet site shared space. Thereafter when another user with permission to access the shared object accesses that object a pTTS enabler provides the user the option to hear the speech associated with the text. The pTTS enabler may be invoked automatically or on demand. If the user selects to hear the message a conversion routine converts the text data to speech data using the corresponding pTTS template.

In one embodiment a shared space object comprises biographical information describing a user in text format. Therefore by converting the text data to speech data with the user s pTTS template other users may hear the biographical description in the user s own voice. In other embodiments shared space objects may include classified ads resumes personal web sites or other personal information.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 805 587 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference describes a facility to alert a subscriber whose telephone is connected to the Internet of a waiting call the alert being delivered via the Internet. A waiting call is forwarded from the PSTN to a services platform that sends the alert to the subscriber via the Internet. If requested by the subscriber the platform may then forward the telephone call to the subscriber via the Internet without interrupting the subscriber s Internet connection.

Referring to the user of telephone is assumed to be calling the user of computer . The user of computer is assumed to have a telephone not shown that is not coupled to PSTN because the user of computer is instead using the telephone line to connect to ISP . Server operates as the services platform described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 805 587 and delivers a message via data network and ISP to computer that a call from telephone is waiting. The user of computer composes a textual message or retrieves an already composed textual message for delivery to the user of telephone and sends the message from computer via ISP and data network to server . Server retrieves the pTTS template for the user of computer from storage generates speech corresponding to the message using conversion routine executing in memory and delivers the personalized speech via PSTN to telephone .

In another embodiment personal computer of is configured to operate as a pTTS system in cooperation with a software application. The software application submits text data to conversion routine executing in memory for conversion to speech data. The speech data is output to a user as audio information through speakers coupled to personal computer . Conversion routine operates as an independent program which may be accessed by various software applications for conversion of text data to speech data.

Alternatively conversion routine is integrated with the software application requiring text to speech services.

In one embodiment the software application comprises a learning program that provides an interactive teaching session with a user. Learning programs providing pre recorded audio output are known. However the pTTS system provides personalized audio output in place of such pre recorded audio. Specifically the learning program submits text data to conversion routine which converts the text data to speech data having characteristics of a specified voice. The pTTS system loads and applies a specific pTTS template to the text data so that the software toy provides audio outputs from a teacher or a parent. The voice of a parent or teacher thereby personalizes the learning experience.

In another embodiment the text of a book or article is submitted to conversion routine for conversion to speech data. A parent may include his or her speech template in storage permitting a child to hear the book or article read in the parent s own voice again perzonalizing the experience for the child.

In another embodiment the pTTS system is implemented in a device such as a children s toy which is capable of executing conversion routine and storing pTTS template . A pTTS template is loaded into the device thereby providing personalized speech output during operation of the toy.

A pTTS system may also be operated on a computer in cooperation with a software application to provide a Personalized Interactive Voice Recognition System Personalized IVR . IVRs utilize voice prompts to request that a caller provide certain information at appropriate times. The caller responds to the request by inputting information via key selections tones or words. Depending on the information input subsequent prompts request additional information and or provide status feedback e.g. please enter your identification number or please wait while we connect your call . The request prompts of a Personalized IVR system comprise a prompt script. In alternative embodiments of the Personalized IVR system the prompt script may contain portions that are fixed and or variable portions that are formulated just prior to a request for information.

The pTTS system may take advantage of different pTTS templates to output one of a plurality of voices and may later forward a caller to the individual assistance operator corresponding to the pTTS template and possessing the voice of the audio output utilized during the earlier part of the recipient s interaction with the pTTS system. In this manner the intake of information from a caller may proceed seamlessly with the caller not being readily aware of the transition from the Personalize IVR system to an actual assistance operator.

The Personalized IVR systems applies the pTTS system to personalize the voice of the audio output providing the prompt script to a caller. That is given a prompt script the pTTS template is applied to the prompt script to create personalized audio outputs. Thus a caller may be prompted by audio output in a familiar voice or in a voice selected to elicit desired responses. Such a Personalized IVR system can be supplied as part of a home messaging system by a telecommunications service provider.

In all of the above described embodiments the pTTS system may be fashioned to operate with real time and or non real time text to speech conversion of the prompt script. In embodiments utilizing real time conversion of the prompt script the pTTS system is invoked only to convert the text data necessary to provide the next audio output in response to the most recent user input. Based on a caller user input the appropriate text response to the caller input is determined and forwarded to the pTTS system. The pTTS system identifies the sending party retrieves the sender s pTTS template and generates speech data corresponding to the forwarded text response. The speech data is then output to the caller user to elicit a response i.e. the next input to the pTTS system . This process of receiving input and determining and generating output repeats until the interaction of the user with the pTTs system is concluded see . For example the Personalized IVR system operates in real time applying the pTTS template only to the portion of the prompt script needed to generate an audio output response to the last input of the caller. In Personalized Speech For Software Applications embodiments text data for the next user sequence in the software application is submitted to the conversion routine of the pTTS system executing in memory for immediate conversion to speech data and output to a user.

However in order to avoid repeated conversion of portions of the prompt script the pTTS system may be equipped with storage for speech data that has been converted from text data by the conversion routine. For example the storage of the Personalized IVR system of may be augmented with storage for speech data that will be used repeatedly such as a welcome greeting. This storage provided by the Personalized IVR system may be capable of storing the audio output of the entire prompt script. Similarly other of the above described embodiments incorporating the pTTS system may be equipped with storage for speech data that has been converted from text data.

In such a way embodiments of pTTS systems incorporating provisioning features may be provided. Provisioning pTTS systems convert a substantial portion of the prompt script at one time and store the converted audio output for later use. It is given that a prompt script may contain portions that are fixed and portions that are variable and formulated just prior to an information request. In addition some of the fixed portions of the prompt script may be utilized repeatedly by any one pTTS system embodiment. Therefore use of a provisioning pTTS system reduces the computing power necessary to run the system during individual user interactions consequently reducing the delivery time for audio output provided to the user.

For instance to provide an interactive game with provisioning capabilities the storage of the pTTS embodiment described in may be augmented to include storage for the speech data corresponding to at least a portion of the prompt script. Once an author has provided a pTTS template using methods know in the art the author may provision the pTTS system selecting that the system convert the fixed portions of the prompt script for later use.

The provisioning of the pTTS system is accomplished in a manner similar to the method described with respect to with the exception that the output speech data of step is stored to a speech data area of storage for each of the many fixed portions of the prompt script. The speech data may be stored in any of a variety of formats. For example the speech data for each fixed portion of the prompt script may comprise a separate .wav file. In addition the pTTs system may be provisioned with the speech data of multiple authors. Accordingly the stored speech data is accessible via various indicies such as author and the text of data converted to speech data.

The operation of a provisioning pTTS embodiment after its has been provisioned is illustrated in the flowchart of . In step the pTTS system determines the text data response including variable and fixed portions of the prompt script intended for a recipient in response to an input. The text data for the response is provided in a data format representing a generic text message such as a text file or a word processing file. In step the pTTS system identifies the proper pTTS template to utilize for the text to speech conversion of the variable portion of the text data response. The proper pTTS template which represents the voice characteristics that are to be provided to the recipient may be identified by a toggle switch or programmable entry in the pTTS system. The pTTS system retrieves the proper stored speech template associated with the author step referred to herein as the author s pTTS template. In the case of a child s interactive game the pTTS template may characterize the voice of a parent sibling teacher coach or other individual. After retrieving the author s pTTS template the pTTS system generates speech data step corresponding to the variable portion of the text data response necessary to provide immediate output to the user. At step the pTTS system determines the speech data for the fixed portion of the text data response necessary to provide immediate output to the user. This step involves a lookup of stored speech data using an appropriate index. The pTTS system then combines the speech data for the variable and fixed portions of the text data response necessary to provide immediate output to the user in step . Once or as the variable and fixed portions of the text data response have been combined the resultant speech data is output from the pTTS system step and provided to the user.

Although illustrative embodiments of the present invention and various modifications thereof have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to these precise embodiment and the described modifications and that various changes and further modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

