---

title: Systems and methods for rendering multiple applications on television screens
abstract: A method for rendering application user interfaces on a television screen executes at a computer system coupled with the television screen. The computer system includes one or more processors and memory storing a plurality of applications configured for execution by the one or more processors. The method provides a user interface of a first application of the plurality of applications for display on the television screen. The method receives from a personal user device a user interface of a second application. The personal user device is distinct from the computer system and the user interface of the second application is provided by one or more programs executing on the personal user device. The method concurrently displays on the television screen the user interface of the first application and the user interface of the second application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538231&OS=09538231&RS=09538231
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09538231
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140916
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 714 262 filed Dec. 13 2012 entitled Systems and Methods for Rendering Multiple Applications on Television Screens which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 570 254 filed Dec. 13 2011 entitled Systems and Methods for Rendering Multiple Applications on Television Screens each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed implementations relate generally to rendering multiple applications on television screens.

Television devices e.g. televisions and receivers coupled to televisions have been traditionally used to access various television programs. Some television devices are capable of displaying two television programs simultaneously.

Increasingly television devices are used to access other multimedia contents and information from websites and to execute and display programs. However traditional methods for displaying television programs are not well suited for simultaneously displaying a television program and a user interface of a non television program or user interfaces of multiple non television programs. Thus simultaneously displaying user interfaces of non television programs on television screens requires considerations different from displaying television programs on television screens.

A number of implementations e.g. of computer systems or devices and methods of operating such systems or devices that overcome the limitations and disadvantages described above are presented in more detail below. These implementations provide methods systems and graphical user interfaces GUIs for rendering application user interfaces on a television screen.

As described in more detail below some implementations involve a method for rendering application user interfaces on a television screen. The method includes providing a user interface of a first application of a plurality of applications for display on the television screen and while providing the user interface of the first application for display on the television screen providing a user interface of a second application distinct from the first application of the plurality of applications for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in a predefined user interface region on the television screen. The method also includes while providing the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application on the television screen receiving a request for a user interface of a third application distinct from the first application and the second application of the plurality of applications. The method further includes in response to receiving the request for the user interface of the third application providing a user interface of the third application instead of the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in the predefined user interface region on the television screen.

In accordance with some implementations a computer system for rendering application user interfaces on a television screen of a device includes one or more processors and memory storing a plurality of applications for execution by the one or more processors. The memory includes one or more instructions for providing a user interface of a first application of the plurality of applications for display on the television screen and while providing the user interface of the first application for display on the television screen providing a user interface of a second application distinct from the first application of the plurality of applications for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in a predefined user interface region on the television screen. The memory also includes one or more instructions for while providing the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application on the television screen receiving a request for a user interface of a third application distinct from the first application and the second application of the plurality of applications. The memory further includes one or more instructions for in response to receiving the request for the user interface of the third application providing a user interface of the third application instead of the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in the predefined user interface region on the television screen.

In accordance with some implementations a non transitory computer readable storage medium stores a plurality of applications for execution by one or more processors of a computer system. The computer readable storage medium includes one or more instructions for providing a user interface of a first application of the plurality of applications for display on the television screen and while providing the user interface of the first application for display on the television screen providing a user interface of a second application distinct from the first application of the plurality of applications for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in a predefined user interface region on the television screen. The computer readable storage medium also includes one or more instructions for while providing the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application on the television screen receiving a request for a user interface of a third application distinct from the first application and the second application of the plurality of applications. The computer readable storage medium further includes one or more instructions for in response to receiving the request for the user interface of the third application providing a user interface of the third application instead of the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in the predefined user interface region on the television screen.

Thus computer systems are provided with improved methods for rendering application user interfaces on television screens. Multiple application user interfaces are rendered for concurrent display thereby enabling respective users to better utilize the television screen and interact efficiently with the multiple application user interfaces.

Methods and systems for rendering application user interfaces are described. Reference will be made to certain implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While particular implementations are described herein it will be understood that the described implementations are not intended to limit the scope of claims to these particular implementations alone.

Moreover in the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the described implementations. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that some implementations may be practiced without these particular details. In other instances methods procedures components and networks that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art are not described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the implementations described in this document.

As used herein content providers are systems or devices configured to provide media content e.g. music television programs movies social media data web data etc. . The content providers can be any of a number of content provider systems equipment and or devices that provide media content e.g. radio broadcasting systems on air television broadcasting systems cable service systems direct satellite broadcasting systems Internet television service servers Internet radio station servers web servers digital video recorders etc. . In some implementations at least a subset of the media contents distributed by the content providers includes audio data e.g. music radio programs television programs movies etc. . In some implementations at least a subset of the media contents distributed by the content providers includes video data e.g. photos television programs movies etc. . In some implementations at least a subset of the media contents distributed by the content providers includes multimedia data e.g. television programs movies etc. . In some implementations at least a subset of the media contents distributed by the content providers includes user readable text e.g. messages sent via short message services postings on blogs or other social networking media web pages etc. .

The content providers distribute media contents via the communication networks . The communication networks may include one or more of radio frequency communication networks used for on air or satellite television broadcasting radio frequency communication networks used for on air radio broadcasting cable based communication networks digital audio video communication networks the Internet other wide area networks local area networks metropolitan area networks wireless networks cellular networks and so on.

In some implementations the companion device or the integrated television device includes a receiver converter connected to the communication networks and configured to receive audio and or video signals typically via one or more of radio frequency communication networks and or one or more digital audio video communication networks.

In some implementations the companion device or the integrated television device includes one or more computer communication network interfaces that are configured for interfacing with one or more computer communication networks such as the Internet other wide area networks local area networks metropolitan area networks wireless networks cellular networks and so on.

The companion device or the integrated television device stores and or executes applications . The applications include application programs used for managing the companion device or the integrated television device including in some implementations applications for controlling the display on the television screen of media content from one or more of the content providers . For example at least one of the applications is configured to receive data from the receiver converter and or the computer communication network interface and send data and instructions to a graphics module for rendering media and program content including user interfaces and or user interface objects.

The graphics module typically includes one or more display processors or graphics processing units for rendering user interfaces and or user interface objects. In some implementations the graphics module receives data from the receiver converter and or the computer communication network interface and additional data or instructions from the applications for rendering user interfaces and or user interface objects. The user interfaces and or user interface objects rendered by the graphics module are sent to the television screen for display. Visual characteristics of the media and program content displayed on the television screen e.g. the size and detail of particular user interfaces and or interface objects typically reflect a number of display parameters of the television screen including display resolution and size of the television screen .

The companion device or the integrated television device may include additional components not illustrated in .

Also illustrated in is a personal device . The personal device may be any of a number of computing devices e.g. Internet kiosk personal digital assistant cell phone smart phone gaming device desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer handheld computer or combinations thereof used to enable the activities described below. The personal device includes a display screen where a graphical user interface GUI can be displayed. In some implementations the personal device is also configured to receive media content from the content providers via the communication networks and display the received media content.

In some implementations the applications can be executed on either or both a personal device or a companion device in which case the application output including user interface elements is presented on either the television screen or the personal device screen . For example an application can be an Android application that can be executed on a companion device such as a Google TV enabled set top box and a smart phone personal device such as an Android phone . This presents the challenge of providing a user friendly user interface for an application based on whether its visual outputs are displayed on a personal device screen or on a television screen because the application user interface may be rendered differently depending on the device the application is executed on. At least some of the methods described below with respect to address this challenge.

The computer system typically includes one or more processing units CPUs graphics module and memory . In some implementations the computer system also includes one or more of one or more network or other communications interfaces and one or more receivers and or converters . The computer system includes one or more communication buses for interconnecting these components. In some implementations the communication buses include circuitry sometimes called a chipset that interconnects and controls communications between system components. In some other implementations the computer system includes a user interface not shown e.g. a keyboard and a mouse or other pointing device . The computer system is coupled with the television screen regardless of whether the television screen is integrated with the computer system or located outside the computer system . The television screen may be used to display a graphical user interface.

The memory of the computer system includes high speed random access memory such as DRAM SRAM DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. The memory may optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from the CPU s . The memory or alternately the non volatile memory device s within the memory comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium. In some implementations the memory or the computer readable storage medium of the memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

The data storage typically includes device characteristics that identify characteristics e.g. a device type specifications operating modes etc. of the computer system and or the television screen . For example the device characteristics may identify that the computer system is coupled with or embedded in the television screen . Alternatively the device characteristics may identify that the computer system is embedded in a personal device e.g. the personal device in such as a mobile phone or that the applications are stored in the personal device.

In some implementations the data storage includes media content storage . The media content storage may store complete media data for a particular program e.g. a music file corresponding to an entire song multimedia data including an entire length of a television program episode or a movie etc. which may be played at a time desired by a user. The media content storage may store a portion of a particular program which may be used for improving the quality of playing the particular program e.g. for caching or for content analysis for finding related programs and or services .

In some implementations the data storage includes user interface elements . In some implementations the user interface elements include information about user interface elements that are displayed on the television screen . The user interface elements are described in detail with respect to .

The application service module includes one or more service modules to provide various application services e.g. memory management graphics rendering etc. to the applications . In some implementations the application service module is included in the operating system . In some implementations the application service module includes a rendering service module for sending data and or instructions to the graphics module for rendering user interfaces and or user interface objects. In some implementations the rendering service module includes a picture in picture module which is used for rendering multiple application user interfaces for simultaneous display e.g. in a picture in picture layout .

In some implementations the picture in picture module retrieves one or more parameters from the user interface elements e.g. a position and or size of each user interface object for rendering a picture in picture region.

In some implementations the picture in picture module is associated with a picture in picture application programming interface API . In some implementations where the picture in picture module is associated with the picture in picture API the picture in picture module is configured to receive inputs e.g. one or more attributes such as an initial location of a respective application with respect to the display of the picture in picture region from one or more applications . For example the picture in picture module may receive from the email application an initial location of a picture in picture region for displaying an application user interface of the email application through the picture in picture API.

Optionally the memory may include additional applications modules or components. In some implementations the computer system includes additional components not illustrated in . For example the computer system may include one or more audio modules for generating and or amplifying audio signals. The computer system may also include a security module for protecting the data stored in the computer system .

Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These modules i.e. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various implementations. In some implementations the memory may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore the memory may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

Notwithstanding the discrete blocks in these figures are intended to provide functional descriptions of some implementations rather than structural descriptions of functional elements in the implementations. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that an actual implementation might have the functional elements grouped or split among various components. In practice and as recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art items shown separately could be combined and some items could be separated. For example in some implementations the television screen is included in the computer system . In other implementations the television screen is physically separated from the computer system . In some implementations the CPUs and the memory are included in a single semiconductor package. In some implementations the CPUs and the graphics module are included in a single semiconductor package. In some implementations the computer system is implemented on multiple distributed computer systems. In some implementations the rendering service module and or the picture in picture module are integrated into the application service module and the rendering service module and or the picture in picture module may not exist as separate modules.

The actual number of components used to implement the computer system and the manner in which features are allocated among those components will vary from one implementation to another and may depend in part on the amount of data traffic that the system must handle during peak usage periods as well as during average usage periods and may also depend on the amount of data stored by the computer system . Moreover one or more of the blocks e.g. the television screen and the receiver converter etc. in may be implemented on one or more separate devices designed to provide the described functionality. Although the description herein refers to certain features implemented in the television device and the computer system the implementations are not limited to such distinctions. For example features described herein as being part of the computer system can be implemented in whole or in part in the television device and vice versa.

In the television screen displays a user interface of a first application e.g. a media player . The television screen also displays a user interface of a second application e.g. an email application . As shown in the user interface is displayed in a picture in picture region e.g. the user interface is displayed in a region smaller than the entire television screen . In some implementations the position of the picture in picture region is selected so that the picture in picture region does not overlap with one or more predefined regions of the user interface e.g. a central region of the user interface of the first application a caption region of the user interface a control region of the user interface of the first application etc. .

In some implementations a respective user interface element includes the following a subset or superset thereof 

In some implementations the time for the respective user interface element is received from a content provider . In some implementations the time is included e.g. embedded in media content provided by the content provider . In other implementations the time is communicated separately from the content provider to the computer system .

In some implementations where the respective user interface element includes the application the application may include one or more values or two or more values indicating two or more applications that are configured to provide the respective user interface element for display. In other words the respective user interface element may be displayed in multiple applications. In some implementations the application may include a value e.g. a null value indicating that the respective user interface element is configured for display in all applications or on a home screen.

In some implementations where the respective user interface element includes the time the time may include one or more values or two or more values indicating two or more time points or particular periods of time at or during which the respective user interface element is provided for display. In other words the respective user interface may be displayed at multiple time points e.g. at 15 minutes into the movie and also at 30 minutes into the movie or during multiple periods of time e.g. between 2 00 pm and 2 15 pm and 3 30 pm and 3 50 pm . In some implementations the time may include a value e.g. a null value indicating that the respective user interface element is configured for display at all times.

In some implementations information e.g. the position and the size in the respective user interface element is used to determine a location of a picture in picture region on display. For example the location of the picture in picture region is determined to avoid or minimize an overlap or occlusion of displayed user interface elements e.g. the respective user interface element . In other implementations the respective user interface element is used to indicate the location and size of the picture in picture region.

The computer system provides a user interface of a first application of the plurality of applications for display on the television screen e.g. the user interface . For example the first application may be the email application and the second application may be the media player .

While providing the user interface of the first application for display on the television screen the computer system provides a user interface of a second application distinct from the first application of the plurality of applications for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in a predefined user interface region on the television screen e.g. the user interface . For example the second application may be the web browser . Providing the user interface of the second application typically includes executing the second application by the one or more processors.

In some implementations one of the first application and the second application is a media player e.g. a TV or movie player and the second application is distinct from the first application e.g. the email application or web browser .

In some implementations the user interface of the first application and the user interface of the second application collectively correspond to a substantially entire portion of the television screen e.g. at least 75 80 90 95 or 100 of the entire television screen . In other words the user interface of the first application and the user interface of the second application together may occupy the entire television screen as shown in . Similarly in some implementations the user interface of the first application and the user interface of the third application collectively correspond to the entire television screen.

In some implementations a position of the predefined user interface region is at least initially determined by the first application. For example the first application may retrieve user interface elements corresponding to the first application e.g. based on the application indicated in respective user interface elements and identify an area or region on the television screen that is large enough to display the predefined user interface region e.g. a picture in picture region without occlusion of displayed user interface elements. Alternatively one of the user interface elements may indicate a position and size of the predefined user interface region e.g. the picture in picture region . Thus in some implementations a size of the predefined user interface region is at least initially determined by the first application.

In some implementations the computer system provides one or more user interface objects for display on the television screen wherein the predefined user interface region is positioned in accordance with positions of the one or more user interface objects. In some implementations the size of the predefined user interface region is determined in accordance with positions and sizes of the one or more user interface objects so that the predefined user interface region e.g. the picture in picture region does not contact or occlude any of the one or more user interface objects.

While providing the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application on the television screen the computer system receives a request for a user interface of a third application distinct from the first application and the second application of the plurality of applications. In some implementations the request for the user interface of the third application is based on a series of user inputs on a remote controller e.g. pressing buttons to select the third application .

In response to receiving the request for the user interface of the third application the computer system provides a user interface of the third application instead of the user interface of the second application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in the predefined user interface region on the television screen. In other words the user interface of the second application is replaced with the user interface of the third application in the predefined user interface region e.g. the picture in picture region and the user interface of the third application is concurrently displayed with the first user application. For example in the user interface in the picture in picture region is replaced with the user interface .

In some implementations providing the user interface of the third application includes initiating execution of the third application by the one or more processors and ceasing the execution of the second application by the one or more processors. In other words the computer system executes the second application while providing the user interface of the second application. Thereafter the computer system stops the execution of the second application and initiates the execution of the third application when the user interface of the second application is replaced with the user interface of the third application.

In some other implementations providing the user interface of the third application includes initiating execution of the third application by the one or more processors and maintaining the execution of the second application by the one or more processors. In other words the computer system executes the second application while providing the user interface of the second application. Thereafter the computer system continues to execute the second application even though the user interface of the second application is no longer provided for display.

In some implementations providing the user interface of the second application includes providing a first position of the predefined user interface region where the first position of the predefined user interface region is at least initially determined by the second application. For example the second application e.g. the media player may include a preselected position for the predefined user interface region e.g. the picture in picture region so that when a user interface of the second application is displayed in the predefined user interface region the predefined user interface region is at least initially positioned at a location that has been preselected for the second application. Providing the user interface of the third application includes providing a second position of the predefined user interface region where the second position of the predefined user interface region is at least initially determined by the third application.

In some embodiments providing the user interface of the second application includes providing a first size of the predefined user interface region wherein the first size of the predefined user interface region is at least initially determined by the second application. Providing the user interface of the third application includes providing a second size of the predefined user interface region wherein the second size of the predefined user interface region is at least initially determined by the third application.

In some implementations the computer system updates the position of the predefined user interface region in accordance with the positions and or sizes of other displayed user interface elements. For example in with the display of the menu the position of the user interface in the picture in picture region is changed so that the user interface does not overlap with the menu . In some implementations when the first application is a media player the computer system continues to update the position of the predefined user interface region while media content is being played by the media player so that the picture in picture region does not overlap with any preselected user interface element or region of the user interface of the first application. For example when a caption or a key figure is displayed on a television screen at a position where the picture in picture region is located the location of the picture in picture region is changed so that the picture in picture region does not block the caption or the key figure.

In some implementations the computer system receives a request to move the predefined user interface region i.e. move an application user interface displayed in the predefined user interface region and in response to receiving the request to move the predefined user interface region moves the predefined user interface region in accordance with the request e.g. . Moving the predefined user interface region includes concurrently moving the application user interface displayed in the predefined user interface region e.g. the user interface of the second application the user interface of the third application etc .

In some implementations receiving the request includes receiving a user input at a respective location on the television screen where the respective location corresponds to a location inside the predefined user interface region. For example in the cursor or pointer points to a location inside the predefined user interface region when the request to move the predefined user interface region is received e.g. when the predefined user interface region is selected .

In some implementations the computer system receives a request to resize the predefined user interface region and in response to receiving the request to resize the predefined user interface region resizes the predefined user interface region in accordance with the request e.g. .

In some embodiments while providing the user interface of the third application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in the predefined user interface region on the television screen the computer system receives a request for a user interface of a fourth application. In response to receiving the request for the user interface of the fourth application the computer system determines whether the fourth application is configured for display in the predefined user interface region. In accordance with the determination that the fourth application is configured for display in the predefined user interface region the computer system provides a user interface of the fourth application instead of the user interface of the third application for concurrent display with the user interface of the first application in the predefined user interface region on the television display. Alternatively in accordance with the determination that the fourth application is not configured for display in the predefined user interface region the computer system disregards the request for the user interface of the fourth application. In some embodiments determining whether the fourth application is configured for display in the predefined user interface region includes receiving one or more values from the fourth application that indicate whether the fourth application is configured for display in the predefined user interface region. This allows the developers of the fourth application to decide whether the fourth application should be displayed in the predefined user interface region and or conditions under which the fourth application is configured for display in the predefined user interface region.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific implementations. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The implementations were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various implementations with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. have been used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first application could be termed a second application and similarly a second application could be termed a first application. The first application and the second application are both applications but they are not the same application.

The terminology used in the description of the implementations herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the claims. As used in the description of the implementations and the appended claims and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

