---

title: Handover method based on seamless mobility conditions
abstract: Methods and apparatus for determining if seamless handover is required for mobile device network connections are disclosed. In one such method, a mobile device establishes connectivity to a public data network (“PDN”) via a cellular network, determines the availability of a plurality of wireless local area networks (“WLANs”), at least one member of the plurality of WLANs providing connectivity to the PDN via the cellular network, and determines if a condition requiring seamless handover is present. If the condition requiring seamless handover is present, then the mobile device selects, from the plurality of WLANs, a trusted WLAN as the handover WLAN, the trusted WLAN being a WLAN that provides connectivity to the PDN via the cellular network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326205&OS=09326205&RS=09326205
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09326205
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140506
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 947 499 filed on Mar. 4 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure is related generally to wireless communications and more specifically to handover methods for offloading traffic from a cellular network to a wireless local area network WLAN .

The performance of Internet based applications on mobile computing devices is affected by the capabilities of the underlying network technologies. To provide access to the Internet for applications on mobile devices cellular wireless communication systems are widely deployed. Such systems may be multiple access systems able to support communication with multiple users by sharing system resources such as bandwidth and transmission power. Commonly used multiple access systems include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access systems Time Division Multiple Access systems Frequency Division Multiple Access 3rd Generation Partnership Project Long Term Evolution systems Long Term Evolution Advanced systems Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access systems and the like.

Additionally or alternatively a mobile computing device may connect to data communications networks via a WLAN. Example WLAN networks include but are not limited to WiFi networks home WLANs WLAN hotspots public WLANs private WLANs and the like.

With an increasing number of mobile computing devices featuring WLAN connectivity capability and with access to WLAN networks becoming more widely available offloading data capabilities from a cellular network to a WLAN has emerged as an attractive feature for both cellular network operators and users. To that end methods for offloading data capabilities by handing over the connection from the cellular network to a WLAN or connection handover methods are used. A connection handover method may be used to establish a connection with a WLAN while disconnecting from a cellular network.

In providing a mobile device with data connectivity operators desire to provide a seamless user experience in connectivity handover solutions to keep device users satisfied with device performance. Many disruptions that may cause a break in data service occur when a mobile device switches from cellular connectivity to WLAN connectivity.

Most current mobile devices employ non seamless handover from a cellular access network to a WLAN access network. Non seamless handover is characterized by a change in Internet Protocol IP address and therefore the handover cannot provide seamless transition without potential network interruption. Generally applications executed by the mobile device identify and react to non seamless connectivity handovers by re establishing their network connections or traffic streams. Although the re establishment of network connections may consume battery life and cellular resources such re establishment may be considered acceptable behavior when it does not detrimentally impact the user experience. For example a user browsing a web page may not have his user experience detrimentally affected by a non seamless handover disruption as the web page is not streaming data to the user as a continuous data stream. Other example non streaming applications wherein such seamless handover may be acceptable may include for example but are not limited to email applications social networking applications instant messaging applications location monitoring applications and the like.

However during the execution of some applications a non seamless handover is unacceptable because the communication session may be perceptibly interrupted. For example a non seamless handover during operation of streaming video or audio applications voice over IP VoIP applications or any real time or recorded content streaming applications will typically be noticed by the user As such connectivity methods wherein the handover from cellular to WLAN is seamless seamless handover may be employed to prevent such data interruption when the mentioned applications or the like are in use. In some example mobile devices the mobile device may be programmed to have an application programming interface API which allows applications to indicate that they require seamless handover. However while executing a specific application may require seamless handover other conditions may also require seamless handover such as display activation data traffic analysis access network discovery and search function ANDSF rules and the like.

Seamless handover methods do not impact the ongoing data flow and applications do not need to identify and react to the handover as they do in non seamless handover situations. One characteristic that allows for seamlessness i.e. no data interruption during a handover to the preservation of the same IP address across both the cellular network and the handed over to WLAN.

In an embodiment a seamless handover method may include the use of trusted WLAN networks. A trusted WLAN is a WLAN that supports advanced security measures such as Universal Subscriber Identity Module based authentication and is capable of providing one or more connections to the cellular network. Therefore if a mobile device performs a handover from the cellular network to a trusted WLAN then the IP address can be maintained because both networks have access to a common packet data network gateway P GW . This enables the handover to be seamless. Cellular network operators have deployed trusted WLAN networks and have integrated them within their core cellular network via network reference points or server gateways. Cellular operators may deploy trusted WLAN networks to offer access to operator hosted IP services over such WLAN networks. Further extended use of trusted WLANs may enable the cellular network operators to offer IP Multimedia System via WLAN.

As described above a mobile device may have the option of either non seamless handover or seamless handover from a cellular network to a trusted WLAN based on present conditions associated with the mobile device. Therefore a method for providing connectivity handover for a mobile device from a cellular network to a local area network may determine if a condition requiring seamless handover is present. If such a condition is present then the mobile device may employ seamless handover.

To that end a method for providing connectivity handover for a mobile device is disclosed with respect to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The connectivity handover is a network handover from a cellular network to a handover WLAN. The method may include establishing connectivity to a public data network PDN via the cellular network determining the availability of one or more WLANs and determining if a condition requiring seamless handover is present the condition requiring seamless handover being associated with the mobile device. If a condition requiring seamless handover is present then the method may entail determining if at least one of the one or more WLANs is a trusted WLAN and providing seamless handover to the PDN via the cellular network. A WLAN is trusted and provides seamless handover to the PDN via the cellular network if the WLAN supports an S2a interface with the cellular network. A WLAN may support an S2a interface with multiple cellular network carriers.

If at least one of the discovered WLANs is trusted and provides seamless handover to the PDN then the mobile device selects one of such trusted WLANs and during an authentication process with the WLAN requests connectivity to the PDN via the cellular network. However if no conditions requiring seamless handover are present or if the user device does not discover at least one WLAN that is trusted and provides seamless handover then the mobile device selects any WLAN and during authentication with the WLAN the mobile device does not request connectivity to the PDN via the cellular network.

Turning now to the drawings and with specific reference to architecture for the interworking of a WLAN and a cellular network with non seamless mobility is shown. A mobile device is first connected to a PDN such as the Internet via a cellular connection . The cellular connection transmits and receives data to or from the mobile device routing said data through a cellular radio network in operative connectivity with a cellular core network . The cellular core network may send and receive packet data using a serving gateway associated with the cellular radio network and a P GW . Thusly the cellular connection provides connectivity to PDN data services such as Internet data services via the cellular network that is composed of the cellular network and the cellular core network .

In the architecture the mobile device may perform a non seamless connectivity handover to change device connectivity from the cellular connection to a WLAN connection . As mentioned above a non seamless connectivity handover is characterized by a change in IP address and therefore the handover cannot provide a seamless transition from the cellular connection to the WLAN connection without potential data interruption. The WLAN connection provides the mobile device with data services by connecting to the Internet via WLAN networks . The WLAN networks may include but are not limited to one or more WiFi networks home WLANs WLAN hotspots public WLANs private WLANs and the like.

Seamless handover methods may be employed using the architecture shown in the architecture configured for the interworking of a WLAN and a cellular network. In the embodiment shown the mobile device is initially connected to a PDN such as the Internet via the cellular connection in a manner analogous to the cellular connection of . However the architecture is configured for seamless connectivity handover wherein the network connection is handed over from the cellular connection to a trusted WLAN connection . The seamless handover may involve the use of trusted WLAN networks . The trusted WLAN connection is a connection to a PDN . Because both the trusted WLAN connection and the cellular connection route via the P GW in the cellular core network if the mobile device performs a seamless handover from the cellular connection to the trusted WLAN connection then an IP address associated with the mobile device is maintained and thusly seamless handover is achieved. The trusted WLAN supports an S2a interface specified in 3GPP TS 23.402 v12.4.0 to P GW in order to enable seamless handover.

Further detailing components of an example mobile device is a block diagram representing example components which may be used in association with an embodiment of the mobile device . The example components may include but are not limited to including one or more wireless transceivers a processor one or more memories one or more output components and one or more input components . Each transceiver may be a receiver a transmitter or both.

The cellular transceivers may utilize wireless technology for communication such as but not limited to cellular based communications such as analog communications digital communications or next generation communications as represented by the cellular transceivers . The cellular transceivers may be configured to establish the cellular connection to a PDN via the P GW in the cellular core network .

Further the WLAN transceivers may also utilize wireless technology for communication such as but not limited to peer to peer or ad hoc communications such as HomeRF ANT Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 a b g or n or other forms of wireless communication such as infrared technology. The WLAN transceivers may be employed to establish the WLAN connection or the trusted WLAN connection via the WLAN networks or the trusted WLAN networks respectively.

The internal components of the mobile device may further include a device interface to provide a direct connection to auxiliary components or accessories for additional or enhanced functionality. In addition the internal components preferably include a power source or supply such as a portable battery for providing power to the other internal components allowing portability of the mobile device .

Further the processor may generate commands based on information received from one or more input components . The processor may process the received information alone or in combination with other data such as the information stored in the memory . Thusly the memory of the internal components may be used by the processors to store and retrieve data. Additionally the components may include any additional processors aside from the application processor .

The data that may be stored by the memory may include but are not limited to including operating systems applications and data such as parameters and values. Each operating system includes executable code that controls basic functions of the electronic device such as interaction among the components of the internal components communication with external devices via each transceiver or the device interface and storage and retrieval of applications and data to and from the memory . Each application may include executable code utilizing an operating system to provide more specific functionality for the electronic device . Data are non executable code or information that may be referenced or manipulated by an operating system or application for performing functions of the electronic device .

The input components such as a user interface may produce an input signal in response to detecting a keystroke a predetermined gesture at a touch input a voice command and the like. The input components may also include other sensors such as a visible light sensor a motion sensor and a proximity sensor.

Likewise the output components of the internal components may include one or more video audio or mechanical outputs. Specifically the output components include a display in the form of a visual output component such as a cathode ray tube liquid crystal display plasma display incandescent light fluorescent light front or rear projection display or a light emitting diode indicator. Other examples of output components may include an audio output component such as a speaker alarm or buzzer or a mechanical output component such as vibrating or motion based mechanisms.

It is to be understood that is provided for illustrative purposes only and for illustrating components of an electronic device in accordance with the present invention and is not intended to be a complete schematic diagram of the various components required for a mobile device . Therefore the mobile device may include various other components not shown in or may include a combination of two or more components or a division of a particular component into two or more separate components and still be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Turning now to a flowchart exemplifying a method carried out by the mobile device is shown. This method is applied whenever the mobile device determines it is to handover the cellular connection to a WLAN access network. Specifically this method is applied by the mobile device to determine whether the cellular connection should be either non seamlessly handed over to WLAN connection as in or seamlessly handed over to WLAN connection as in .

At block the mobile device uses the cellular connection to establish connectivity to the PDN . The mobile device checks for the presence of one or more WLAN networks including trusted WLAN networks decision . If no WLAN network is present then the mobile device may continue checking for available WLAN networks. However if a plurality of WLANs are detected then the mobile device determines if a condition requiring seamless handover is present decision . If a condition requiring seamless handover is not present decision then the mobile device selects and connects to an available WLAN network and establishes a WLAN connection to the Internet block . This WLAN connection has a different IP address than the cellular connection . Subsequently it releases the cellular connection and further data communication with the Internet is carried over the WLAN connection . This completes a non seamless handover of the cellular connection to the WLAN connection .

However if a condition requiring seamless handover is present decision then the mobile device determines decision if there is a trusted WLAN available that can provide S2a connectivity to the cellular core network which is presently used to route data over the cellular connection . If no such WLAN is available then the mobile device executes the non seamless handover . If however at least one trusted WLAN is discovered that can provide S2a connectivity to the cellular core network then the mobile device selects and connects to a trusted WLAN that can provide S2a connectivity to the cellular core network block . During the authentication procedure with the selected trusted WLAN the mobile device requests connectivity to the PDN e.g. the Internet via the P GW in the cellular core network block . After this step the trusted WLAN connection is established which has the same IP address as the cellular connection and subsequent data communication to the Internet is carried over the trusted WLAN connection .

Seamless handover may be required during numerous operation states or scenarios and example scenarios requiring seamless handover are shown in as an example expansion of the decision process . The conditions requiring seamless handover however are not limited to the conditions of and additional conditions may be present to trigger seamless handover. Additionally not all of the conditions listed must be present for the method to perform seamless handover. However if no recognized conditions requiring seamless handover are present block then the method chooses non seamless handover at block .

In some example embodiments a condition requiring seamless handover may be the activation of the display of the mobile device condition of . For example the display may be a screen of the mobile device and whenever the screen is activated the mobile device determines that seamless handover is required. The method may include this condition because when a screen is ON the user of the mobile device may interact with network applications and may not tolerate communication delays or error messages that may occur during non seamless handover.

Another example condition is the execution of an application that requires seamless handover condition of . As mentioned above applications requiring a constant stream of media may require seamless handover to prevent data interruption during use. Additionally the mobile device may maintain a list of applications which require seamless handover and employ seamless handover methods when an application on the list of applications is executed by the mobile device .

Further the mobile device may implement an API which allows application developers to program an application to inform the mobile device that said application requires seamless handover during use. The mobile device using the processor may execute an API having a seamless handover lock which locks the mobile device into seamless handover during the use of applications which specify a need for seamless handover. Additionally cellular network operator branded walled garden applications may employ such an API.

Data traffic analysis may also be used to determine if a condition exists wherein seamless handover is required condition of . The mobile device may analyze the data packet traffic flow transmitted to and from the mobile device . Traffic thresholds may be established for the mobile device wherein if a data packet traffic flow associated with an IP address of the mobile device exceeds the predetermined traffic flow threshold then seamless handover is required. For example a VoIP application may have a specific traffic profile e.g. 50 to 60 packets second 80 to 150 bytes packet in such examples the predetermined traffic flow threshold may be based on the traffic profile of the VoIP application. Further the mobile device may configure one or more traffic thresholds based on one or more applications including operator branded walled garden applications. When the traffic analysis indicates that there is at least one traffic flow that matches a pre configured traffic profile then the mobile device determines that seamless handover is needed.

The mobile device may further determine if seamless handover is required by using provisioned ANDSF rules condition of . For example if the mobile device is triggered to connect to a WLAN by an ANDSF Inter System Mobility Policy ISMP rule then the mobile device assumes that seamless handover is required. If for example an operator provided ISMP rule becomes active which indicates that access to the cellular core is preferable over WLAN then the mobile device is triggered by this rule to select and connect to WLAN with seamless handover. Therefore in this example the ANDSF rule would provide a seamless handover to prevent interruptions in the connectivity between the mobile device and a P GW in the cellular core network .

Further example ANDSF rules which may be employed by the mobile device may include rules based on Inter System Routing Policy ISRP rules ISRP for multi access PDN connectivity rules Non Seamless WLAN Offload rules Inter Access Point Name APN Routing Policy rules and the like to determine if seamless mobility is required.

In another example the mobile device determines that seamless handover is required by evaluating the provisioned ANDSF ISRP rules for multi access PDN connectivity referred to as ISRP for MAPCON rules . Such rules may indicate which radio access is the most preferable for PDN connections to specific APNs. For example an ISRP for MAPCON rule may indicate that PDN connections to APN x should preferably be established over WLAN if and when available . Based on such rules the mobile device can determine that seamless mobility is required when it has a valid ISRP for MAPCON rule which indicates that the currently established PDN connection over cellular access should be established over WLAN. The mobile device may also use other ANDSF rules to determine if seamless mobility is required. For example the mobile device can be provisioned with ANDSF Inter APN Routing Policy rules. Such rules indicate which PDN connection should be used for routing certain IP traffic e.g. route UDP traffic to port 5060 to the PDN connection with APN ims. If the mobile device determines that no active IP flows should be routed inside an existing PDN connection then it determines that seamless mobility is not required. Otherwise it determines that seamless mobility is required.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the present disclosure may be applied it should be recognized that the embodiments described herein with respect to the drawing figures are meant to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the claims. Therefore the techniques as described herein contemplate all such embodiments as may come within the scope of the following claims and equivalents thereof.

