---

title: Apparatus providing visual-reveal gap for wall
abstract: Apparatus includes body assembly configured for installation to wall assembly and baseboard. Visual-reveal feature is formed between body assembly and baseboard once body assembly and baseboard are positioned, body assembly is installed to wall-support structure that abuts against and supports weight of wall assembly, and baseboard is installed to body assembly. Body assembly includes wall-support contact portion configured for positioning adjacent to wall-support structure. First engagement assembly extends from wall-support contact portion. Second engagement assembly is configured to attach to baseboard. Second engagement assembly and first engagement assembly are configured to engage with each other. Body assembly also includes wall-contact portion configured to contact outer wall surface of wall assembly. Finished-edge portion extends from wall-contact portion. Finished-edge portion is configured for positioning proximate to wall edge of wall assembly. Visual-reveal feature is positioned between baseboard edge of baseboard and wall edge of wall assembly. Visual-reveal feature includes channel having vertical height and horizontal depth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09428922&OS=09428922&RS=09428922
owner: Forest View Industries Ltd.
number: 09428922
owner_city: Mississauga
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20141015
---
Some aspects are generally related to and are not limited to architectural components. More specifically some aspects provide an architectural component or a decorative component configured to provide a visual feature to a wall such as an apparatus providing a visual reveal feature.

Interior architectural design or exterior architectural design involves turning an interior space or an exterior space into a setting for the range of human activities that are to take place inside or outside a building.

A problem associated with wall design and example of an architectural component was researched. After much study an understanding of the problem and its solution has been identified.

There are some wall design requirements for installing a visual reveal feature to in or on a wall. Known systems for accommodating such a requirement are difficult to manage and facilitate in such a way as to ensure an aesthetic outcome that is satisfactory.

In order to mitigate at least in part at least one problem associated with existing architectural designs there is provided in accordance with a major aspect an apparatus. The apparatus is for a baseboard that is installable relative to a wall assembly supported by a wall support structure. The apparatus includes a body assembly configured for installation relative to the wall assembly and the baseboard. A visual reveal feature is formed between the body assembly and the baseboard once A the body assembly and the baseboard are positioned relative to each other B the body assembly is installed to the wall assembly and C the baseboard is installed to the wall assembly. The body assembly includes a wall support contact portion configured to contact at least in part the wall support structure. A first engagement assembly extends from the wall support contact portion. A second engagement assembly is configured to be attachable to the baseboard. The second engagement assembly and the first engagement assembly are configured to engage with each other.

Other aspects and features of the non limiting embodiments may now become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the following detailed description of the non limiting embodiments with the accompanying drawings.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale and may be illustrated by phantom lines diagrammatic representations and fragmentary views. In certain instances details not necessary for an understanding of the embodiments and or details that render other details difficult to perceive may have been omitted.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding components throughout the several figures of the Drawings. Elements in the several figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be emphasized relative to other elements for facilitating understanding of the various presently disclosed embodiments. In addition common but well understood elements that are useful or necessary in commercially feasible embodiments are often not depicted in order to facilitate a less obstructed view of the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The following detailed description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the described embodiments or the application and uses of the described embodiments. As used herein the word exemplary or illustrative means serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary or illustrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations. All of the implementations described below are exemplary implementations provided to enable persons skilled in the art to make or use the embodiments of the disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure which is defined by the claims. For purposes of the description herein the terms upper lower left rear right front vertical horizontal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the examples as oriented in the drawings. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding technical field background brief summary or the following detailed description. It is also understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments examples aspects and or concepts defined in the appended claims. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics relating to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting unless the claims expressly state otherwise. It is understood that the phrase at least one is equivalent to a .

In accordance with a more specific general aspect the apparatus includes and is not limited to the baseboard is installable relative to the wall assembly . The body assembly includes and is not limited to a visual reveal feature . The visual reveal feature may include a relief a gap a pattern a groove a channel etc. and any equivalent thereof . The visual reveal feature may be called a reveal section. The visual reveal feature is formed and located between the body assembly and the baseboard . The visual reveal feature is formed once the body assembly and the baseboard are positioned relative to each other. The visual reveal feature is formed once the baseboard is installed relative to the wall assembly . The visual reveal feature is a feature that adds and or improves the esthetic value design interest to the wall assembly and or to the wall support structure and or to the wall edge or to other aspects of the wall assembly . In accordance with an option if so desired there is no material such as a flashing element inserted or extending into or extending out from the visual reveal feature .

In accordance with a specific detailed aspect the apparatus is adapted from the general aspect in the following manner the body assembly has a finished edge portion . The finished edge portion is configured to contact at least in part a wall edge of the wall assembly if so desired . It will be appreciated that a gap such as a nominal approximate 0.25 inch gap may exist between the finished edge portion and the wall edge if so desired in which case the finished edge portion is positioned proximate to or adjacent to at least in part the wall edge . The body assembly contacts the wall support structure for the case where the wall support structure includes a stud wall . The body assembly also has a baseboard contact portion . The baseboard contact portion is configured to contact at least in part a decorative side of the baseboard and or to pass by at least in part a baseboard edge of the baseboard . The finished edge portion and the baseboard edge of the baseboard are positioned relative to each other to form at least in part the visual reveal feature . More specifically the baseboard edge is spaced apart from the finished edge portion .

In accordance with a more specific detailed option the apparatus is adapted from the general aspect in the following way the body assembly has a wall contact portion . The wall contact portion is configured to contact at least in part the outer wall surface of the wall assembly . The finished edge portion extends at least in part from the wall contact portion . The finished edge portion is configured to be positioned proximate to or to contact at least in part the wall edge of the wall assembly . It will be appreciated that the finished edge portion does not have to make contact the wall edge if so desired . The body assembly also has a wall support contact portion . The wall support contact portion is configured to be positioned relative to positioned proximate to or to contact at least in part a wall support structure .

The body assembly is also called a profile or a trim assembly. The body assembly may include an extruded plastic body also called an extrusion formed by an extrusion machine by using an extrusion process known and not disclosed here . The body assembly includes an extruded profile which may be made from PVC Polyvinyl Chloride and any equivalent thereof. The apparatus may be manufactured to have PVC and or any comparable material and or any material suitable for the process used to manufacture the body assembly . Extrusion is a process used to create objects of a fixed cross sectional profile. A material is pushed or drawn through a die having a desired cross section. In this manner complex cross sections may be created. The extrusion extrusion profile formed by the extrusion machine may be continuous producing relatively longer pieces or semi continuous producing many relatively smaller pieces . Examples of extruded materials may include metals polymers ceramics or concrete etc.

The wall assembly is a side of a room or a building. The wall assembly extends generally vertically. The wall assembly may connect a floor component with a ceiling component or a foundation and a roof of a living space such as a residential and or commercial building . For instance the wall assembly may include a drywall. Drywall is also known as plasterboard wallboard gypsum board or gyprock. Drywall is a panel made of gypsum plaster pressed between two thick sheets of paper. Drywall is used to make form interior walls and ceilings. Drywall construction became prevalent as a speedier alternative to traditional lath and plaster techniques.

The wall edge of the wall assembly may be called a wall bottom section a lower edge and or a bottom edge of the wall assembly . The wall edge is positioned proximate to but offset from a finish floor as depicted in .

The wall support structure is a structure configured to abut against the wall assembly and or to support at least in part the weight of the wall assembly . The wall assembly may be fixedly attached to the wall support structure . The wall support structure may be a load bearing structure bearing structure configured to bear a load resting upon it by transmitting the received weight to a foundation structure and or to other walls or separate rooms . As well the wall support structure may be a non load bearing structure. The materials that may be used to construct a load bearing structure are concrete block brick and or wood. By way of example the wall support structure may include a stud wall. The stud wall is a vertical member used in light frame construction techniques called platform framing of a wall of a building. The wall support structure may be called a rough wall.

In accordance with an option the apparatus is provided sold with the baseboard pre installed. In accordance with another option the apparatus may be sold separately from the baseboard that is sold by different vendors .

The baseboard is also called a decorative assembly a skirting board skirting a mopboard floor molding as well as a base molding. The baseboard may be made of wood plastic or any suitable material. The apparatus may allow for taller instances of the baseboard . As depicted in and the baseboard is positioned on the finish floor . The finish floor is positioned on a sub floor .

Referring to for the embodiment depicted the wall support structure such as a stud wall is installed. The sub floor is installed. Then the wall assembly such as a drywall is installed to connected to the wall support structure then the finish floor is installed over the sub floor . The finish floor does not touch the wall support structure and this arrangement allows for expansion and contraction of the finish floor . The finish floor is set back from the wall support structure so that a wall gap is defined between the edge of the finish floor and the wall support structure the wall gap is configured to permit expansion and contraction of the finish floor such as wooded floors . The body assembly which may be called a profile is installed to connected to the wall support structure between the bottom of the wall assembly and above the sub floor . The lower section of the body assembly does not touch the sub floor for the embodiment depicted . The baseboard such as a baseboard is installed to connected to the body assembly . The baseboard abuts the top of the finish floor .

The body assembly has a predetermined thickness. In accordance with an option not depicted the apparatus may include the body assembly having a predetermined thickness depth . The apparatus also may include a thickness extension section not depicted having a predetermined thickness. The thickness extension section is attachable such as glued connected or snap fit to the body assembly . The thickness extension section is configured to make up for a variation in the thickness of the wall assembly . For instance the wall assembly may include drywall panels. For the case where the installed drywall panels have about a 0.5 inch thickness the thickness extension section is not required. For the case where the installed drywall panels have about a inch thickness the thickness extension section provides an additional inch approximately to the body assembly . This is done in order to make up for the shortfall if so desired . In this manner the baseboard may then be installed such that the outer facing surface of the baseboard may be positioned vertically in line with the outer wall surface of the wall assembly .

The apparatus is installed such that the baseboard has a baseboard plane that is generally vertically in line with the outer wall surface of the wall assembly . As well the apparatus is configured to provide the visual reveal feature that is substantially consistent in the height or dimension between the baseboard edge of the baseboard and the wall edge wall bottom of the wall assembly . The apparatus is formed with the finished edge portion that abuts contacts or is positioned proximate to the wall edge of the wall assembly . The finished edge portion covers or shields the wall edge bottom edge of the wall assembly . The wall edge may be called a cut raw drywall edge of the wall assembly . Preferably the baseboard plane of the baseboard is aligned in line coplanar with the outer plane of the wall assembly once the wall assembly is finished with a drywall compound such as mud compound . The apparatus forms a finished edge with the help of the finished edge portion that abuts contacts or is positioned proximate to the wall edge of the wall assembly . In this manner the cut raw edge the wall edge of the drywall the wall assembly is covered and this arrangement provides a substantially consistent looking bottom edge the finished edge portion for the wall assembly .

In accordance with an option the body assembly is configured to include the strength component not depicted . The strength component may for instance resist flexing for the case where a nail is used to attach the body assembly to the wall support structure . Alternatively the strength component includes defines channels configured to permit passage of a nail without imparting stress to the body assembly for the case where as the nails or connectors are used to fasten the body assembly to the wall support structure .

In summary the apparatus is configured to A finish the wall edge of the wall assembly and B keep the baseboard edge the baseboard at a consistent distance from spaced apart from the wall edge such as the bottom of the drywall edge of the wall assembly . In this manner or arrangement the dimension of the visual reveal feature is consistent for aesthetic purposes as may be required for an interior design application . The apparatus is configured to keep the appearance of the wall edge of the wall assembly looking like a straight line preferably a near perfect line with the help of the finished edge portion of the body assembly .

Referring to and the wall contact portion has a tapered portion or a flared portion as an option for the case where the wall assembly includes drywall in which a mud component is to be applied and or any equivalent thereof. The tapered portion is configured to accommodate the application of the mud compound and tape to be applied to the wall assembly for the case where the wall assembly includes a drywall. Specifically some of the mud compound and or tape materials may be placed over the wall contact portion . A lip portion extends outwardly from the finished edge portion where the finished edge portion meets up with the wall contact portion . That way when a skilled trades person applies the mud compound there can be a clean edge where the finished edge portion meets up with the wall contact portion . The lip portion provides a barrier that acts as a clean edge for where the mud compound may rest against once the mud compound is applied to the wall contact portion .

The finished edge portion provides a horizontally aligned surface for the case where the finished edge portion is installed as depicted in and in . It will be appreciated that if so desired the finished edge portion may be aligned non horizontally to add additional aesthetic interest to the wall assembly if so desired .

Referring to for the case where instances of the body assembly are to be connected on an edge to edge basis a body connector assembly is provided. Generally the body connector assembly is configured to facilitate edge to edge connection between side by side instances of the body assembly that abut each other on an edge to edge basis end to end basis . As depicted two instances of a groove assembly are formed in defined by the body assembly and are spaced apart from each other and are aligned parallel to each other. An instance of the body connector assembly is installed in co aligned instances of the groove assembly formed by two edge to edge positioned instances of the body assembly two neighboring instances of the body assembly . The instances of the groove assembly that are positioned on each instance of the body assembly are coaxially aligned with each other. The groove assembly is positioned below the finished edge portion and below the wall contact portion . The body connector assembly is configured to be securely received in the groove assembly . depicts the body connector assembly securely received installed in the groove assembly . depicts the body connector assembly not received installed in the groove assembly . In accordance with an option as depicted the body connector assembly includes instances of a connector finger depicted in that are spaced apart from each other. The instances of the connector finger extend from the body connector assembly . The instances of the connector finger are configured to be snap fitted into the groove assembly in a secure fashion as depicted in .

Referring to the body connector assembly two instances are depicted are configured to span across and to align two adjoining instances of the body assembly . In this manner the wall edge of the body assembly may remain substantially aligned along a relatively long distance. This is done in such a way that there are no distractions from any disjointed look or steps in the instances of the body assembly positioned edge to edge once the instances of the body assembly are connected by the instances of the body connector assembly . The connected instances of the body assembly then form the finished edge portion as an uninterrupted continuous line a line without interruptions from one end to the other end . This arrangement provides an aesthetically pleasing effect for occupants of the room in which the apparatus is installed. There is formed a consistent uniform spacing between the baseboard edge of the baseboard and the finished edge portion . The finished edge portion forms a finished line of the wall edge of the wall assembly as depicted in .

Referring to and an offset section is positioned between the finished edge portion and the wall support contact portion . The offset section transitions the alignment of the wall support contact portion . This is done in such a way that the body connector assembly may be installed in the groove assembly without the body connector assembly interfering with the wall support structure of and . In this manner the outer edge of the body connector assembly may abut the wall support structure if so desired . Specifically the groove assembly is positioned between the finished edge portion and the offset section as depicted in and .

Referring to a first engagement assembly extends from the wall support contact portion . As depicted there are two instances of the first engagement assembly extending from the wall support contact portion . A second engagement assembly is configured to be attached to the baseboard of and on the decorative side . The second engagement assembly and the first engagement assembly are configured to engably clip together in a locked engagement. The baseboard contact portion is provided by the second engagement assembly and or the first engagement assembly . The second engagement assembly is configured to engage the first engagement assembly .

Referring to there is depicted a detailed view of the second engagement assembly . The second engagement assembly includes instances of a baseboard connector assembly configured to connect to the baseboard of the baseboard defines a groove or an opening configured to receive the baseboard connector assembly in a fixed and secure manner such as snap fitting so that the baseboard connector assembly .

For installation the following steps may be used the body assembly may be installed to connected to the wall support structure depicted in . Then the baseboard connector assembly of the second engagement assembly is installed to connected to the baseboard depicted in at the decorative side . The second engagement assembly connected to the baseboard is then connected connectable to the first engagement assembly extending from wall support contact portion .

A baseboard connector body extends from the baseboard connector assembly toward a first engagement mechanism . The first engagement mechanism may include a row of engagement teeth as depicted . The first engagement mechanism is configured to engage the first engagement assembly . The second engagement assembly may include corresponding engagement teeth that are securely engageable with the engagement teeth of the first engagement mechanism . Instances of the second engagement assembly are installed to connected to the baseboard then the baseboard is manually positioned in such a way that the corresponding instances of the first engagement mechanism may connectably engage respective instances of the second engagement assembly as depicted in . The first engagement mechanism and the second engagement assembly may be called U shaped clips. The first engagement mechanism and the second engagement assembly are configured to facilitate variation in height of the baseboard as may be required.

The body assembly is configured to allow the user installer to attach the apparatus to the wall assembly depicted in without requiring the installation of nails through the face of the baseboard if so desired .

In view of the foregoing the apparatus is for the baseboard . The baseboard is installable relative to the wall assembly . The wall assembly is supported by the wall support structure . The apparatus includes the body assembly configured for installation relative to the wall assembly and the baseboard . The apparatus also includes the visual reveal feature formed between the body assembly and the baseboard . This is done once A the body assembly and the baseboard are positioned relative to each other B the body assembly is installed to the wall assembly and C the baseboard is installed to the wall assembly . The body assembly includes the wall support contact portion configured to contact the wall support structure . The body assembly also includes the first engagement assembly extending from the wall support contact portion . The body assembly also includes the second engagement assembly configured to be attachable to the baseboard . The second engagement assembly and the first engagement assembly configured to engage with each other.

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is adapted such that the second engagement assembly and the first engagement assembly are configured to selectively attachably engage and detachably disengage with each other.

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the second engagement assembly includes the baseboard connector assembly configured to securely connect to the baseboard .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the second engagement assembly is configured to be A connectable to the baseboard and B connectable to the first engagement assembly extending from the wall support contact portion .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the baseboard connector body extends from the baseboard connector assembly toward the first engagement mechanism and the first engagement mechanism is configured to engage the first engagement assembly .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the first engagement mechanism includes the first row of engagement teeth. The second engagement assembly includes the second row of engagement teeth configured to securely engage with the first row of engagement teeth of the first engagement mechanism .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the second engagement assembly is configured to be connectable to the baseboard . The baseboard is positionable in such a way that the first engagement mechanism is engageable with the second engagement assembly .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the first engagement mechanism includes the first U shaped clip. The second engagement assembly includes the second U shaped clip configured to selectively connect with the first U shaped clip.

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the first engagement mechanism and the second engagement assembly are configured to facilitate vertical positioning of the baseboard .

Referring to the groove assembly is positioned on the finished edge portion as an alternative to the embodiment depicted in . As an option the embodiments of may be combined to provide instances of the groove assembly positioned on the finished edge portion and the wall support contact portion .

For the embodiment depicted in the body assembly includes a floor extension portion that extends from the wall support contact portion . The body assembly is installed to connected to the outer wall surface of the wall assembly . Then the floor extension portion extends from the body assembly and abuts contacts the sub floor . For this case the sub floor is installed perfectly level horizontal so that the sub floor acts as a reference from which the wall assembly may be installed relative to a top surface of the sub floor . The top surface is also called a top of the sub floor . Now the body assembly may contact and fit between the wall edge of the wall assembly and the top surface of the sub floor . The thickness of the floor extension portion may be the same thickness as the wall support contact portion and or of the rest of the extrusion portions of the body assembly as depicted in .

Referring to in accordance with an option the floor extension portion defines forms or provides a weakness line . The weakness line may be called a groove or notch. The weakness line is configured to allow a user the installer of the apparatus to remove a section or material portion from the floor extension portion in such a way that the body assembly may be installed in accordance with the embodiment depicted in and in of so desired .

According to an option the floor extension portion may provide several instances of the weakness line in which each instance is spaced apart from the other instances of the weakness line along a length of the floor extension portion . For the case where the user installer is required to install the apparatus in which the user needs to accommodate the wall assembly to be positioned at a predetermined height from the sub floor the user has the option to remove material from the floor extension portion by selecting a desired instance of the weakness line if so desired .

In summary the floor extension portion is configured for the case where the sub floor is dead level then the body assembly is placed onto and contacts the sub floor . For the case where the sub floor is not level the weakness line of the floor extension portion may be used to break off a portion of the floor extension portion for non level floor situations .

In view of the foregoing in accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the body assembly includes the floor extension portion extending from the wall support contact portion .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the body assembly is configured to be installed to the outer wall surface of the wall assembly in such a way that the floor extension portion extends from the body assembly toward the sub floor .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the floor extension portion is configured to provide the weakness line and the weakness line is configured to facilitate removal of the section of the floor extension portion . This is done in such a way that the body assembly is installable to the sub floor once the section of the floor extension portion is removed from the floor extension portion .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the sub floor is installed horizontally level so that the sub floor acts as a reference from which the wall assembly is installed relative to the top surface of the sub floor .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the body assembly is configured to fit between the wall edge of the wall assembly and the top surface of the sub floor .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the floor extension portion and the wall support contact portion each have the same thickness.

The wall contact portion defines a collection matrix of spaced apart instances of a perforation . The perforation may be called a channel or a hole. After the user installer has installed the apparatus the user then may apply compound material also known as mud compound and wall tape compound tape to the outer wall surface of the wall assembly . This is done in such a way that the mud compound may be spread over the wall contact portion and into the instances of the perforation . The perforation allows the mud compound to become infused at least in part with the wall contact portion so that the perforation assists with improving the strength of the mud compound placed over the wall contact portion . The perforation may pass through the wall contact portion if so desired .

In accordance with another option a protection portion is attached to the body assembly along a longitudinal length of the body assembly . The protection portion is positioned between the finished edge portion and the wall edge . The protection portion is configured to reduce the possibility of inadvertent damage to the wall edge and surrounding wall portion of the wall assembly .

For instance when a user of the room vacuums or moves furniture these actions may easily damage the wall edge of the wall assembly . The protection portion is added to the body assembly and is configured to guard the wall edge thus reducing the possibility of inadvertent damage to the wall edge . The protection portion may be a wood piece extra material and any equivalent thereof positioned inside the body assembly . The body assembly forms a horizontal portion leading to a nib . The nib may be called a drywall mudding edge or a ledge portion. The nib leads to the wall contact portion . The horizontal portion extends horizontally from the finished edge portion if so desired . The horizontal portion may form or have any desired shape if desired.

It will be appreciated that the apparatus may be configured for installation near the ceiling area of the room in such a way as to provide the visual reveal feature near the ceiling area of the room if so desired .

In accordance with an option the apparatus of does not include the first engagement mechanism and the second engagement assembly of and if so desired . In accordance with an option the apparatus of includes the weakness line depicted in .

In accordance with the wall support contact portion includes a floor extension portion that extends from the wall support contact portion of the apparatus . The floor extension portion extends toward the finish floor once the finish floor is installed as depicted . The floor extension portion abuts the side section of the finish floor once the finish floor is installed onto the sub floor . In this manner unwanted debris dust and or dirt is prevented from reaching and accumulating on the sub floor the space between the sub floor and the wall support structure thus the floor extension portion permits improved floor maintenance and floor hygiene for the finish floor . As depicted in the horizontal portion is configured to facilitate snap fit with the protection portion to a side of the horizontal portion . Snap fit may include press fit and or interference fit etc. The horizontal portion is configured to conform to an outer surface of the protection portion if so desired . The reason for the jogs placed in the protection portion is to provide a firm fit and or hold before the glue placed between the protection portion and the apparatus is allowed to dry in order to facilitate a fixed connection between the protection portion and the apparatus . It will be appreciated that the size vertical height and horizontal depth of the reveal may be adjusted as desired. It will be appreciated that the size vertical height and horizontal depth of the reveal may be adjusted to accommodate for different thickness of the wall assembly such as from about 0.5 inches to about 0.625 inches thickness of drywall double layer etc. As well the thickness of the protection portion may vary depending on the geometry of the wall assembly .

In view of the foregoing in accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the wall support contact portion includes the floor extension portion extending from the wall support contact portion . The floor extension portion is configured to abut the finish floor . This is done in such a way that unwanted debris is prevented from reaching and accumulating on the sub floor in the space between the sub floor and the wall support structure .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the body assembly includes the wall contact portion configured to contact at least in part the outer wall surface of the wall assembly . The wall contact portion defines the collection of spaced apart instances of the perforation each configured to allow the compound wall material to become infused at least in part with the wall contact portion . This is done in such a way that once the compound wall material infuses with the wall contact portion the compound wall material improves strength of the compound wall material placed over the wall contact portion and the outer wall surface of the wall assembly .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the collection of spaced apart instances of the perforation extends through the wall contact portion .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the collection of spaced apart instances of the perforation is configured to A receive the compound wall material and B permit the compound wall material to extend through the wall contact portion and contact the outer wall surface of the wall assembly .

In accordance with an embodiment the apparatus is further adapted such that the body assembly includes the finished edge portion and the wall contact portion . The wall contact portion is configured to contact at least in part the wall assembly . The body assembly also includes the lip portion extending outwardly from the finished edge portion where the finished edge portion meets up with the wall contact portion . This is done in such a way that the lip portion provides the barrier that acts as the clean edge for where the compound wall material may rest against once the compound wall material is applied to the wall contact portion .

It may be appreciated that the assemblies and modules described above may be connected with each other as may be required to perform desired functions and tasks that are within the scope of persons of skill in the art to make such combinations and permutations without having to describe each and every one of them in explicit terms. There is no particular assembly or components that are superior to any of the equivalents available to the art. There is no particular mode of practicing the disclosed subject matter that is superior to others so long as the functions may be performed. The crucial aspects of the disclosed subject matter have been provided in this document. It is understood that the scope of the present invention is limited to the scope provided by the independent claim s and it is also understood that the scope of the present invention is not limited to i the dependent claims ii the detailed description of the non limiting embodiments iii the summary iv the abstract and or v the description provided outside of this document that is outside of the instant application as filed as prosecuted and or as granted . It is understood for the purposes of this document that the phrase includes is equivalent to the word comprising. It is noted that the foregoing has outlined the non limiting embodiments examples . The description is made for particular non limiting embodiments examples . It is understood that the non limiting embodiments are merely illustrative as examples.

