---

title: Positioning pads for moving a position of interest on a display
abstract: Positioning pads are displayed via a display device to facilitate movement of a position of interest (e.g., as indicated by a cursor) with respect to a structured object also displayed via the display device. The structured object is analyzed to determine predicted locations to which a user may subsequently wish to navigate the position of interest, and positioning pads are displayed at, or associated with, the predicted locations. When activation of a positioning pad is detected, (i) the position of interest is moved to the location of, or associated with, the positioning pad, and (ii) the positioning pad is no longer displayed via the display device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262070&OS=09262070&RS=09262070
owner: WOLFRAM RESEARCH, INC.
number: 09262070
owner_city: Champaign
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 788 994 entitled Positioning Pads for Moving a Position of Interest on a Display filed on Mar. 15 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to cursors or other indicators of a position of interest on computer display devices and more particularly to user movement of a cursor or a position of interest on a display.

There has recently been a large increase in the number of users who use touch screen based devices as a secondary or even primary computing device. However certain computer paradigms which were designed for user input via keyboard and mouse are still being used in a primarily touch screen based interface. For example software operating systems which primarily utilize a touch input still use a cursor to display a position of interest in a text input box. However use of a human finger or stylus to select a position on a touch screen is not as accurate as a mouse while a mouse can be used to select a position of interest on a pixel by pixel basis human digits are too large to make similarly granular selections especially when the screen size is relatively small such as on a tablet computer or a smart phone . Furthermore capacitive screen hardware predominantly used in modern touch based devices is of varying quality with high quality screens providing better accuracy than their lower quality counterparts. Thus the inherent clumsiness of human digits and irregular surface capacitivity can create problems when a user is trying to move a position of interest e.g. move a cursor to a different location. When a user wants to move the cursor it may take the user several presses on a touch screen to get the cursor to the desired location leading to frustration and or loss of concentration.

This difficulty is especially troublesome when inputting complex mathematical or numerical expressions such as when using a calculator application a spreadsheet application etc. For example mathematical expressions often utilize a plurality of sets of parentheses or brackets to specify the grouping of terms to specify the precedence of operations to set apart the arguments of a function from the function itself etc. When editing a mathematical expression it can be difficult to place a cursor at a desired location using a touch screen. For example when the expression has two adjacent parentheses corresponding to nested parentheses and the user wants to add text between the two parentheses it can be difficult to use the touch screen to place the cursor between the two parentheses. It may take the user several presses or touch screen operations to move the cursor to the desired location and thus the user may become frustrated with an application over time.

Additionally new types of display devices e.g. 3 dimensional 3D displays and user interface devices e.g. motion detection devices that detect spatial gestures are becoming more common. Existing techniques for navigating cursors have drawbacks in the context of such new types of display and user interface devices.

In one embodiment a method for facilitating movement of a position of interest displayed via a display device includes displaying via the display device a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy and or in a multi dimensional coordinate space. The method also includes analyzing with one or more processors the structured object to determine one or more predicted locations to which a user may subsequently wish to navigate the position of interest and positioning pads are displayed at or associated with the predicted locations. When activation of a positioning pad is detected i the position of interest is moved to the location of or associated with the positioning pad and ii the positioning pad may no longer displayed be via the display device.

In another embodiment a non transient tangible computer readable storage medium or media has stored thereon machine readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computing device cause the processor to implement the method described above.

In yet another embodiment a computing device comprises a user input device and one or more processors. One or more memories and or computer readable storage devices are coupled to the one or more processors. The one or more memories have stored thereon machine readable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to implement the method described above. In another embodiment the computing device also comprises the display device.

The device includes a central processing unit CPU coupled to a memory which can include one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory a hard disk drive a digital versatile disk DVD disk drive a Blu ray disk drive etc. . The device also includes an input output I O processor that interfaces the CPU with a display device and a touch sensitive device or touch screen . In some embodiments the touch sensitive device is a multi touch touch screen however embodiments of the present application are envisioned for use with devices using various suitable touch screen technologies such as a single touch touch screen. The I O processor also interfaces one or more additional I O devices to the CPU such as one or more buttons click wheels a keypad a touch pad another touch screen single touch or multi touch lights a speaker a microphone etc.

A network interface is coupled to the CPU and to an antenna . A memory card interface is coupled to the CPU . The memory card interface is adapted to receive a memory card such as a secure digital SD card a miniSD card a microSD card a Secure Digital High Capacity SDHC card etc. or any suitable card.

The CPU the memory the I O processor the network interface and the memory card interface are coupled to one or more busses . For example the CPU the memory the I O processor the network interface and the memory card interface are coupled to a bus in an embodiment. In another embodiment the CPU and the memory are coupled to a first bus and the CPU the I O processor the network interface and the memory card interface are coupled to a second bus. In other embodiments various other suitable bus architectures are utilized.

The device is only one example of a computing device and other suitable devices can have more or fewer components than shown can combine two or more components or a can have a different configuration or arrangement of the components. The various components shown in can be implemented in hardware by a processor executing software instructions or by a combination of both hardware and processor executing software instructions software including one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits. Furthermore the device may be a mobile computing device such as a mobile phone tablet e reader etc. a desktop computer laptop computer or other computing device. Alternatively the device may be a single purpose computing device such as a touch screen based calculator.

The CPU executes computer readable instructions stored in the memory . The I O processor interfaces the CPU with input and or output devices such as the display the touch screen and other input control devices . The I O processor can include a display controller not shown and a touch screen controller not shown . The touch screen includes one or more of a touch sensitive surface and a sensor or set of sensors that accepts input from the user based on haptic and or tactile contact. The touch screen utilizes one or more of currently known or later developed touch sensing technologies including one or more of capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen . In an embodiment the touch screen and the I O processor along with any associated modules and or sets of instructions stored in memory and executed by the CPU can detect multiple points of or instances of simultaneous contact and any movement or breaking of the contact s on the touch screen . Such detected contact can be converted by the CPU into interaction with user interface that is displayed on the display . A user can make contact with the touch screen using any suitable object or appendage such as a stylus a finger etc.

The network interface facilitates communication with a wireless communication network such as a wireless local area network WLAN a wide area network WAN a personal area network PAN etc. via the antenna . In other embodiments one or more different and or additional network interfaces facilitate wired communication with one or more of a local area network LAN a WAN another computing device such as a personal computer a server etc. In some embodiments having one or more additional network interfaces the device includes one or more additional antenna.

Software components i.e. sets of computer readable instructions executable by the CPU are stored in the memory . The software components can include an operating system a communication module a contact module a graphics module and applications such as a calculator application spreadsheet application word processing application e mail application or other applications having a text input area i.e. an area displayed on the display in which text e.g. alphanumeric characters can be input. The operating system can include various software components and or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks e.g. memory management etc. and can facilitate communication between various hardware and software components. The communication module can facilitate communication with other devices via the network interface .

The contact module can detect contact with touch screen in conjunction with the I O processor . The contact module can include various software components for performing various operations related to detection of contact such as determining if contact has occurred and determining if the contact has been broken i.e. if the contact has ceased . In some embodiments the contact module may include components for determining if there is movement of the contact and tracking the movement across the touch screen . Determining movement of the point of contact can include determining speed magnitude velocity magnitude and direction and or an acceleration a change in magnitude and or direction of the point of contact. These operations can be applied to single contacts e.g. one finger contacts or to multiple simultaneous contacts e.g. multi touch multiple finger contacts in some embodiments.

In an embodiment the device includes a calculator application. The calculator application is configured to enable input via an input field of arbitrarily complex expressions that can then be evaluated by the calculator application to generate a result which is then displayed on the display . For example in some embodiments a user can input an expression that includes brackets or parentheses to group terms to specify precedence of operations etc. As another example in some embodiments the calculator application provides for the use of preconfigured functions within the input expression and brackets or parentheses are used to denote the arguments of the function. As used herein the term brackets refers to a pair of punctuation marks used to group text within the pair of punctuation marks and to set apart the text within the brackets from text outside of the brackets. Examples of brackets includes square brackets round brackets or parentheses curly brackets chevrons etc. Thus as used herein parentheses are an example of a type of bracket . Examples are described below are in the context of parentheses but the techniques are applicable to other types of brackets as well.

A mathematical expression entered via an input field is an example of a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy. For example in an expression having nested brackets including a first set of brackets within a second set of brackets a hierarchy in the expression may include a first level within the first set of brackets a second level outside of the first set of brackets and within the second set of brackets and a third level outside the second set of brackets. In this example and according to an embodiment the second level is above the first level in the hierarchy and the third level is above the second level in the hierarchy.

The user interface is displayed on the display in an embodiment. The user interface includes an input field in which a user can enter an input expression to be evaluated by the calculator application. The user interface also includes a region with buttons for selecting alphanumeric text mathematical symbols functions etc. to then be displayed in the input field .

The buttons in the region may correspond to for example numbers symbols operations functions and other marks that can be used to create an expression to be evaluated by the calculator application. When a user presses via the touch screen one of the buttons on the user interface the touch screen registers a user input and sends a signal to be interpreted by the operating system software and or the calculator application to display the user input in the input field on the display . For example in response to the user pressing a number button e.g. the number five the calculator application displays the corresponding number in the input field at a current location of a cursor and the cursor is then advanced to a next adjacent input location to the right. As another example in response to the user pressing the button the calculator application displays a pair of parentheses in the input field at a current location of the cursor and the cursor is then moved to within the pair of parentheses . As another example in response to the user pressing the button the calculator application displays the text sin in the input field at a current location of the cursor where sin indicates a preset or preconfigured function of the calculator and the parentheses in sin denotes arguments of the sin function. The cursor is then moved to within the pair of parentheses in the sin . It is to be noted that the user input is not limited to signals received from user input on the touch screen but may be signals received from a user pressing a button on a separate display or other component such as a hardware keyboard connected to the device via a wired or wireless connection. Wireless connections include but are not limited to infrared PAN connections WLAN connections etc.

The area also includes a button to cause the calculator application to evaluate the input expression entered in the input field . The result of the evaluation is displayed in a result field .

As illustrated in a mathematical expression has been entered by the user and is displayed in the input field . The expression includes a sub expression within the parentheses . The cursor indicates the current input location i.e. the location at which a new input will be entered in the field . For example as illustrated in the current input location is immediately to the right of the number three.

The mathematical expression is a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy. For example the hierarchy may include a first level within the parentheses and a second level outside of the parentheses . In an embodiment the second level is above the first level in the hierarchy.

In some embodiments a cursor positioning pad module of or associated with the calculator application is configured to analyze the mathematical expression to determine the plurality of levels in the hierarchy of the mathematical expression e.g. the first level and the second level . Additionally the cursor positioning pad module is configured to determine in which level the current input location is located in an embodiment. For example in the cursor is located in the first level. Further the cursor positioning pad module is configured to determine one or more predicted locations in other levels of where the user may choose to move the cursor subsequently from the current location.

A first cursor positioning pad is displayed in the input field . Cursor positioning pads like the first cursor positioning pad are generally for facilitating changing the current input location in an expression displayed in the input field to a predicted location where the user may choose to move the cursor subsequently from the current location. For example in the example illustrated in when the user presses the first cursor positioning pad the current input location is moved from within the parentheses to outside of the parentheses in particular to a location immediately to the right of the parenthesis . In embodiments utilizing a touch screen cursor positioning pads generally have a shape configured to enable easy selection via the touch screen. For example in one embodiment the first cursor positioning pad is a square having a width of about . In other embodiments however other suitable shapes and sizes are utilized. Other suitable shapes that may be utilized include rectangles circles ovals etc. Additionally the size and or shape of the cursor positioning pad may vary depending on one or more of the size of the display the location of the cursor positioning pad within the field the information adjacent to the cursor positioning pad the amount of information being displayed within the field etc. in various embodiments.

In some embodiments a cursor positioning pad is located at or proximate to the location to which the current input location will be moved. For example in the example illustrated in the first cursor positioning pad is located generally where the current input location will be moved e.g. to the location immediately to the right of the parenthesis . In other embodiments the cursor positioning pad is located at a position spaced apart from where the current input location will be moved but a visual indicator is displayed the visual indicator configured to visually associate the cursor positioning pad with the location where the current input location will be moved in response to pressing the cursor positioning pad. For example the visual indicator may be a line displayed on the display that connects the cursor positioning pad with the new location or a line connected to or otherwise visually linked to the cursor positioning pad and that visually points to the new location. In some embodiments the visual indicator includes a line with an end point at or proximate to the new location. In an embodiment the line includes an arrow head a rounded end point etc.

In some embodiments the cursor positioning pad enables the user to change a position of the current input location from a first area of the input expression to a second area of the input expression. For example in the illustration of the first area may be the area of the expression within the parentheses and the second area may be the area of the expression to the right of the parenthesis . If the current input location represented by the cursor is in the first area of the input expression e.g. within the parentheses and a user desires to move the cursor to within the second area of the input expression e.g. outside of the parentheses and to the right of the parenthesis for example to further add to the input expression the user may press the first cursor positioning pad . The user input is then registered by the touch screen device which in response sends a signal to the to the calculator application e.g. directly or via the operating system .

The calculator application receives the signal indicating selection of the first cursor positioning pad . In response the calculator application recognizes the user input and moves the current input location represented by the cursor outside of the first area of the parentheses and to the right of the parenthesis

When the cursor is outside of the parentheses the first cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed on the display e.g. the first cursor positioning pad is removed from the display . At this point the user may continue to edit the input expression by adding to the input expression to the right of the parenthesis . In some embodiments if the user later positions the cursor back within the parentheses the first cursor positioning pad is redisplayed to allow the user to subsequently change the current input location to outside of the parentheses and to a location at the rightmost position in the input expression to allow the user to subsequently change the current input location to the rightmost position in the input expression .

In some embodiments in which information has been added to the right of the parenthesis and when the user later positions the cursor back within the parentheses a second cursor positioning pad not shown is displayed at or associated with a location immediately to the right of the parenthesis to allow the user to subsequently change the current input location immediately to the right of the parenthesis . The second cursor positioning pad not shown is displayed in addition to or instead of the first cursor positioning pad at or associated with the rightmost position in the input expression in some embodiments and or scenarios.

In an embodiment when the first cursor positioning pad is selected by the user a third cursor positioning pad not shown in is then displayed within the parentheses or otherwise associated with a location within the parentheses e.g. displayed in connection with a line to indicate the location within the parentheses . If the user wishes to once again add information within the parentheses the user can press the third cursor positioning pad not shown . The user input is then registered by the touch screen device which in response sends a signal in to the calculator application e.g. directly or via the operating system . The calculator application receives the signal and interprets the signal. In response the calculator application recognizes the user input and moves the current location represented by the cursor to back within the parentheses e.g. to a location immediately to the left of the parenthesis

In some embodiments the user can move the cursor independently of the cursor positioning pad e.g. by one or more of pressing the touch screen at a new location within the expression dragging the cursor to a new location using arrow buttons not shown etc. Thus in some embodiments and or scenarios if the user moves the cursor outside of the parentheses using a mechanism other than the cursor positioning pad e.g. using an arrow button not shown the first cursor positioning pad in response to determining that the cursor has been moved into the second level of the hierarchy of the structured object is no longer displayed on the display e.g. the first cursor positioning pad is removed from the display . In an embodiment the third cursor positioning pad not shown in discussed above in response to determining that the cursor has been moved outside of the parentheses and into the second level is then displayed within the first level e.g. within the parentheses or otherwise associated with a location within the parentheses .

In some embodiments the user may select a cursor positioning pad indirectly e.g. without touching the cursor positioning pad in embodiments using a touch screen . For example a user may make a selection via a graphical user interface element located outside of the input field yet within the touch screen as in an embodiment in which a selection menu or other user interface mechanism not shown with a multi level structure identical to or mimicking that of the structured object but with visual characteristics that are different than the object is displayed. Additionally an application may for example provide an application programming interface API by which a client application may programmatically select cursor positioning pads in an embodiment.

The calculator application causes the graphical user interface to be displayed on the display . The user interface includes an input field in which a user can enter an input expression to be evaluated by the calculator application. The user interface also includes an area only some of which is shown in with buttons for selecting alphanumeric text mathematical symbols functions etc. to then be displayed in the input field . The graphical user interface may be the same as or similar to the graphical user interface illustrated in in some embodiments. In an input expression has been entered by the user in the field .

The input expression has a first area within parentheses a second area outside of parentheses but within parentheses and a third area outside of both parentheses and parentheses and to the right of parenthesis . The parentheses and parentheses are nested and in particular the parentheses are within the parentheses .

The mathematical expression is a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy. For example the hierarchy may include a first level within the parentheses a second level outside of the parentheses and within the parentheses and a third level outside of the parentheses . In an embodiment the third level is above the second level in the hierarchy and the second level is above the first level in the hierarchy.

A current input location is indicated by a cursor . As illustrated in the current input location is within the parentheses i.e. in the first level of the hierarchy. A first cursor positioning pad is displayed in the second level e.g. outside of the parentheses to the right of the parenthesis and to the left of the parenthesis . A second cursor positioning pad is displayed in the third level e.g. outside of both the parentheses and the parentheses to the right of the parenthesis

If the current input location represented by the cursor is within the first area and in the first level in the hierarchy and the user desires to move the current input location to within the second level the user may press the first cursor positioning pad . In response to this press the calculator application may determine that the user selected the first cursor positioning pad in a manner such as described above. In response the calculator application recognizes the user input and moves the current input location represented by the cursor outside of the first area to within the second level in the hierarchy in particular to between the parenthesis and the parenthesis . When the cursor is within the second level of the hierarchy of the structured expression the first cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed.

At this point the user may continue to edit the second area in the second level of the mathematical structure . If the user wishes to once again edit the first area in the first level of the mathematical structure the user can press the third cursor positioning pad not shown to move the current input location to within the first area .

On the other hand if the user desires to edit the third area in the third level of the hierarchy of the input expression the user can touch the second cursor positioning pad . In response to this press the calculator application may determine that the user selected the second cursor positioning pad in a manner such as described above. In response the calculator application recognizes the user input and moves the current input location represented by the cursor to outside of the second area to within the third area . When the current location represented by the cursor is within the third area in the third level of the hierarchy the second cursor positioning pad is not displayed in the graphical user interface . In some embodiments the first cursor positioning pad is then displayed in the second area in the second level of the hierarchy of the mathematical structure and or the third cursor positioning pad discussed above is also displayed within the within the first area in the first level of the hierarchy of the input expression.

In some embodiments the user can move the cursor without using a cursor positioning pad by for example one or more of pressing the touch screen at a new location within the expression dragging the cursor to a new location using arrow buttons not shown etc. Thus in some embodiments and or scenarios if the user moves the cursor to within the second area in the second level of the hierarchy using a mechanism other than the first cursor positioning pad e.g. using an arrow button not shown the first cursor positioning pad in response to determining that the cursor has been moved to within the second area in the second level of the hierarchy is no longer displayed on the display e.g. the first cursor positioning pad is removed from the display . In an embodiment the third cursor positioning pad not shown in discussed above in response to determining that the cursor has been moved outside of the first area in the first level of the hierarchy is then displayed within the parentheses in the first level of the hierarchy or otherwise visually connected or associated with a location within the parentheses .

The cursor positioning pad module may be configured to predict one or more likely positions within the input expression to which the user may wish to move the current input location as indicated by a cursor . Predictions of likely positions may be generated based on one or more of i the current input location ii the mathematical elements or functions already entered into the input expression iii the current structure of the input expression e.g. the nesting structure of brackets functions etc. . For example generation of predictions may include applying rules to the current input expression. For example a first rule may be that when the cursor is currently located within a level of a structured expression having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy the user will likely wish to move the cursor to one or more different levels in the hierarchy. As another example a second rule may be that when the cursor is currently located within a current level in the hierarchy hierarchy the user will likely wish to move the cursor to one or more higher levels i.e. one or more levels above the current level in the hierarchy. As a further example a third rule may be that when a user wishes to move the cursor from one level to another the user will likely wish to move the cursor to the rightmost position in the other level. As a further example a fourth rule may be that when a user wishes to move the cursor from one level to another the user will likely wish to move the cursor to the leftmost position in the other level.

As another example a fifth rule may be that when the input expression includes a pair of brackets and the current input location is within the brackets the user will likely wish to move the cursor outside of the brackets to a position immediately to the right of the right hand bracket. A sixth rule may be that when the input expression includes a pair of brackets and the current input location is outside of the brackets the user will likely wish to move the cursor back inside the brackets to a position immediately to the left of the right hand bracket.

The calculator application causes the graphical user interface to be displayed on the display . The user interface includes an input field in which a user can enter an input expression to be evaluated by the calculator application. The user interface also includes an area only some of which is shown in with buttons for selecting alphanumeric text mathematical symbols functions etc. to then be displayed in the input field . The graphical user interface may be the same as or similar to the graphical user interface illustrated in in some embodiments.

In the illustration of the first function argument area corresponds to a first area of the expression and a second area of the expression corresponds to a position outside of the first area and to the right of the first function . A first cursor positioning pad is displayed within the second area . The expression is a structured expression having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy including a first level and a second level. For example the first level corresponds to the area and the second level corresponds to the area . The second level is above the first level in the hierarchy.

If a user wishes to edit the second area of the input expression the user may press the first cursor positioning pad which causes the current input location to move to the second area in the second level of the hierarchy e.g. just to the right of the function and to move the cursor to the corresponding new position of the current input location. Alternatively the user may wish to enter an additional function within the first argument area of the first function .

Turning now to a user has input a second function e.g. an integer part function within the first argument area of the first function . The second function is nested within the first function . In a second function argument area of the second function a user has input a first text input . The current input location represented by the cursor is displayed within the second function argument area of the second function . The hierarchy of the structured expression now includes a third level corresponding to the area . The third level is below the first level e.g. within the area but outside of the second function in the hierarchy.

The first cursor positioning pad remains displayed in the second area . Additionally a second cursor positioning pad is now displayed within the first function argument area and outside of the second function argument area .

If the user desires to input additional text such as a number symbol function etc. within the first function argument area of the first function the user may press the second cursor positioning pad . The calculator application may determine that the user selected the second cursor positioning pad in a manner such as described above. In response the calculator application recognizes the user input and moves the current input location represented by the cursor outside of the second argument area to the first function argument area .

If the user desires to input text into the second area of the input expression the user may press the first cursor positioning pad . The calculator application may determine that the user selected the first cursor positioning pad in a manner such as described above. When the calculator application recognizes the user input it may move the current input location represented by the cursor to the second area of the mathematical structure . Additionally first cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed. In some embodiments and or implementations the second cursor positioning pad is redisplayed within the first function argument area .

As discussed above the calculator application may be configured to predict one or more likely positions within the input expression to which the user may wish to move the current input location as indicated by a cursor and such predictions may be generated based on rules such as when the input expression includes a function with an argument area and the current input location is within the argument the user will likely wish to move the cursor outside of the argument area to a position immediately to the right of the function. Another example rule is when the input expression includes a function with an argument area and the current input location is outside of the argument area the user will likely wish to move the cursor back inside the argument area to a right most position in the argument area a left most position within the argument area etc.

Although the examples described above involve hierarchies similar techniques may be utilized with expressions having a structure in a multi dimensional coordinate space. For instance illustrates an example expression that may be displayed on a display device by an application such as the calculator application described above. The expression includes a first area between an integral sign and a symbol . The first area corresponds to a first level associated with a first coordinate pair. The expression includes a second area corresponding to an upper limit of the integral. The second area corresponds to a second level associated with a second coordinate pair. The expression includes a third area corresponding to a lower limit of the integral. The third area corresponds to a third level associated with a third coordinate pair. The expression also includes a fourth area outside of the integral. The fourth area corresponds to a fourth level associated with a fourth coordinate pair.

Various suitable rules for determining one or more predictions of one or more levels to which a user may wish to navigate the input position may be utilized where predictions are determined based on the level in which the input position is currently located. For example in the illustration of a cursor not shown is located in the first area corresponding to the first level first coordinate pair . The cursor positioning pad module in response to determining the cursor is at the first levels coordinate pair may predict locations to which the user may wish to subsequently navigate the cursor such locations corresponding to the second third and fourth levels coordinate pairs. Then the cursor positioning pad module displays cursor positioning pads in the predicted locations. For example a cursor positioning pad is displayed at or associated with a location corresponding to the second coordinate pair and a cursor positioning pad is displayed at or associated with a location corresponding to the third coordinate pair. Similarly a cursor positioning pad is displayed at or associated with a location corresponding to the fourth coordinate pair.

In some embodiments a graphical user interface element may be provided not shown which a user can successively press click or otherwise activate having the effect of cycling a cursor from one cursor positioning pad to another is some specified order.

In some embodiments a multi dimensional coordinate space may be considered a multi dimensional matrix where different levels of the structured object correspond to respective elements of the matrix.

In an embodiment the cursor positioning pad module is configured to determine a current level in the hierarchy at which the current input position e.g. the current position of the cursor is located and then determine one or more predictions of one or more locations only in levels above the current level in the hierarchy to which a user may wish to navigate the input position. In another embodiment the cursor positioning pad module is configured to determine a current level in the hierarchy at which the current input position e.g. the current position of the cursor is located and then determine one or more predictions of one or more locations only in levels above the current level in the hierarchy or levels in the hierarchy equivalent to the current level to which a user may wish to navigate the input position. In another embodiment the cursor positioning pad module is configured to determine a current level in the hierarchy at which the current input position e.g. the current position of the cursor is located and then determine one or more predictions of one or more locations only in levels different than the current level in the hierarchy including levels in the hierarchy equivalent to the current level to which a user may wish to navigate the input position. Next the cursor positioning pad module displays one or more cursor positioning pads at the predicted one or more locations.

Techniques such as described above can be used in other types of applications. For example similar techniques can be used in spreadsheet applications. For example cursor positioning pads can be utilized to permit navigating within an input expression to be entered into or already within a cell of the spreadsheet. The spreadsheet application may be configured to predict one or more likely positions within the input expression to which the user may wish to move the current input location as indicated by a cursor and such predictions may be generated based on rules such as described above or rules more specific to spreadsheet applications in an embodiment.

As another example similar techniques can be used in word processing applications. For example cursor positioning pads can be utilized to permit navigating a cursor within a paragraph to move the cursor within or outside of brackets or pairs of quotation marks to navigate between nested brackets or quotation marks etc. In an embodiment the word processing application may be configured to predict one or more likely positions within a document to which the user may wish to move the current input location as indicated by a cursor and such predictions may be generated based on rules such as described above or rules more specific to word processing applications. For example if the word processing application is configured to detect misspellings or other errors a rule may specify that a user is likely to position a cursor at the error e.g. to the right of the error to the left of the error etc. in an embodiment. Regarding such rules there may be different rules for different types of errors such as a first predicted cursor placement rule for misspellings and a second predicted cursor placement rule for punctuation errors.

In an embodiment a sentence within a word processing document may be considered a structured object. For example brackets in a sentence may be treated in a manner similar to the example mathematical expressions described above. As another example quotations may be treated as brackets in a manner similar to the example mathematical expressions described above. In an embodiment a word processing document may be considered having a multidimensional hierarchy where sentences are at equivalent first levels paragraphs are at equivalent second levels sub headings are at equivalent third levels headings are at equivalent fourth levels etc. where the first levels are below the second levels the second levels are below the third levels and the third levels are below the fourth levels. In an embodiment the word processing application may be configured to predict one or more likely positions within a document to which the user may wish to move the current input location as indicated by a cursor and such predictions may be generated based on rules such as described above or rules more specific to word processing applications. For example in an embodiment the cursor positioning pad module is configured to determine a current level in the hierarchy at which the current input position e.g. the current position of the cursor is located and then determine one or more predictions of one or more locations only in levels above the current level in the hierarchy to which a user may wish to navigate the input position. As an example if a cursor is located within a sentence of a paragraph cursor positioning pads may be located at one or more of i a beginning and or an end of the paragraph ii beginnings and or endings of other paragraphs iii beginnings and or endings of headings etc. according to an embodiment.

In an embodiment code or data in a programming language may be considered a structured object. For example blocks of source code delimited by brackets or whitespace may be treated in a manner similar to the mathematical expressions described above. In an embodiment source code being edited via a text editor may be considered to have a multidimensional hierarchy where lines and columns are considered to be matrix coordinates. In an embodiment the text editor may be configured to predict one or more likely positions within the code to which the user may wish to move the current input location as indicated by the cursor and such predictions may be generated by rules as described above or by rules more specific to text editing of source code. For example in an embodiment a text editor may be configured to insert cursor positioning pads in place of formal parameters upon an event such as the insertion by the user of a specific textual pattern such as a function definition. A text editor could be configured in an embodiment to insert cursor positioning pads depending upon the structure of the computer program being edited. For example if a cursor is located in the first function of a class that contains three function definitions then a text editor could be configured in an embodiment to attach cursor positioning pads to each of the other two functions. In addition to placing a positioning pad based upon program context a cursor positioning pad module could be configured to insert positioning pads based on program execution for example by placing a positioning pad at the end of a line in which an error in syntax has been discovered by a code parser or as the result of compilation or interpretation.

Although examples described above were in the context of entry of data such as text into an expression similar techniques may be utilized in other contexts that do not necessarily involve entering data into an expression. For example similar techniques can be used in the context of navigating a structured object. For instance in an embodiment positioning pads can be utilized to facilitate navigating a file structure having folders sub folders and files stored within folders and or sub folders. For instance positioning pads may be utilized when the file structure is displayed via a display device to select open and or close folders or sub folders select and or open files etc. according to an embodiment. In this example positioning pads may be considered to facilitate moving a position of interest on the structured object e.g. the file structure .

At block a structured object is displayed via the display device where the structured object has a plurality of levels in a hierarchy. For example the expression may be displayed on the display device where the expression has a plurality of levels in a hierarchy as discussed above.

At block the structured object is analyzed to determine plurality of levels. For example the cursor positioning module executed by the processor or some other suitable module analyzes the expression to determine the plurality of levels in the hierarchy as discussed above. For example in the expression the hierarchy may include a first level within the parentheses a second level outside of the parentheses and within the parentheses and a third level outside of the parentheses . In an embodiment the third level is above the second level in the hierarchy and the second level is above the first level in the hierarchy.

At block the current level in the hierarchy in which the position of interest is currently located is determined. For example the cursor positioning module executed by the processor or some other suitable module determines the current level of a current input position in the expression as indicated by the cursor . In the current input position as indicated by the cursor is located in the first level. In the current input position as indicated by the cursor is located in the second level of the hierarchy.

At block one or more predicted locations in one or more other levels in the hierarchy i.e. levels different than the current level to which a user may choose to navigate the position of interest are determined. For example the cursor positioning module executed by the processor or some other suitable module determines the one or more predicted locations based on the determination of the current level. In the scenario illustrated in two predicted locations in the second level and the third level are determined. In the scenario illustrated in a predicted location in the third level is determined in an embodiment. In the scenario illustrated in multiple predicted locations in the first level and or the third level are determined in an embodiment.

Predictions of likely locations to which a user may navigate the position of interest may be generated based on one or more of i the current location of the position of interest ii the current level in which the position of interest is currently located iii characteristics of the structured object iv the current structure of the structured object e.g. if the structure can change over time v the hierarchy etc. For example generation of predicted locations may include applying rules. For example a first rule may be that when the position of interest is located within the current level the user will likely wish to move the position of interest to one or more levels in the hierarchy different than the current level. As another example a second rule may be that when the position of interest is located in the current level the user will likely wish to move the cursor only to one or more higher levels i.e. one or more levels above the current level in the hierarchy i.e. not to one or more lower levels in the hierarchy. As another example a third rule may be that when the position of interest is located in the current level the user will likely wish to move the cursor only to one or more lower levels i.e. one or more levels below the current level in the hierarchy i.e. not to one or more higher levels in the hierarchy.

At block one or more positioning pads are displayed at or associated with the one or more predicted locations determined at block . For example the cursor positioning module executed by the processor or some other suitable module causes the cursor positioning pad and or the cursor positioning pad to be displayed on the display device .

At block when activation of a positioning pad is detected the position of interest is moved to the location at or associated with the activated positioning pad. Additionally when activation of a positioning pad is detected the activated positioning pad may not be displayed. For example when the cursor positioning pad in is activated the cursor is moved to the location of the cursor positioning pad and the cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed as illustrated in .

In some embodiments block may include ending display of positioning pads corresponding to levels in the hierarch below the new current level. In some embodiments block may include continuing to display positioning pads corresponding to levels in the hierarch above the new current level.

Blocks and may be repeated as the position of interest is moved to different locations on the structured object for example via activation of positioning pads or by other means according to some embodiments. Block may also be repeated if and when the structured object changes according to some embodiments.

At block an input field is displayed on a display device wherein the input field includes at least a first area and a second area. The input field may be for inputting an expression to be evaluated by an application such as a calculator application a spreadsheet application etc. The display device is associated with a touch screen. At block a cursor is displayed in the input field.

At block when the cursor is located within the first area of the input field a first cursor positioning pad associated with the second area of the input field is displayed. The first cursor positioning pad may be displayed in the second area or otherwise visually associated with the second area. The first cursor positioning pad is for enabling a user to move the cursor out of the first area of the input field and into the second area of the input field. The first cursor positioning pad may be displayed in response to predicting that a user is likely to reposition the cursor to the second area of the input field. In an embodiment first cursor positioning pad may be displayed in accordance with one or more rules such as described above related to predicting where a user is likely to reposition the cursor.

At block activation of the first cursor positioning pad is detected. At block in response to detecting activation of the first button the cursor is moved from the first area of the input field and into the second area of the input field. At block the first cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed. For example the first cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed in response to detecting that the cursor is in the second area in response to detecting activation of the first cursor positioning pad etc. in various embodiments.

At block when the cursor is located outside of the first area a second cursor positioning pad is displayed within or otherwise visually associated with the first area. The second cursor positioning pad is to enable moving the cursor to within the first area. The second cursor positioning pad may be displayed in response to predicting that a user is likely to reposition the cursor to the first area of the input field. In an embodiment second cursor positioning pad may be displayed in accordance with one or more rules such as described above related to predicting where a user is likely to reposition the cursor.

At block activation of the second cursor positioning pad is detected. At block in response to detecting activation of the second cursor positioning pad the cursor is moved into the first area of the input field. At block the second cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed. For example the second cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed in response to detecting that the cursor is in the first area in response to detecting activation of the second cursor positioning pad etc. in various embodiments.

The expression is a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy. For example the first area may correspond to a first level and the second area may correspond to a second level. The second level is above the first level in the hierarchy in an embodiment.

A current input location is indicated by a cursor . As illustrated in the current input location is in the first area i.e. in the first level of the hierarchy. A cursor positioning pad is displayed in the second level to the right of the expression .

If the current input location represented by the cursor is within the first area and in the first level in the hierarchy and the user desires to move the current input location to within the second level the user may press the cursor positioning pad . In response to this press the calculator application may determine that the user selected the cursor positioning pad in a manner such as described above. In response the calculator application recognizes the user input and moves the current input location represented by the cursor outside of the first area to within the second level in the hierarchy in the area . When the cursor is within the second level of the hierarchy of the structured expression the cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed.

In some embodiments techniques for assuming that a user wishes to move the position of interest without the user first selecting the cursor positioning pad may be utilized. For instance referring again to when the user enters a next input and the cursor is located as indicated in the next input may be analyzed to determine whether the next input should be inserted into the expression in the first area or level or in the area or level . In some embodiments heuristics are utilized to determine in which area or level a next input should be inserted. For example it may be generally observed that exponents entered by users tend to have only one term. Thus in some embodiments in which the position of interest is within an area corresponding to an exponent the next input may be analyzed to determine whether the next input will result in the exponent having multiple terms. For example referring to if the next input is this input would result in the exponent of the expression having multiple terms. Thus it is assumed that the user intended that the should be entered in the area . illustrates the display after the user has entered and without the user first selecting the cursor positioning pad according to an embodiment. The was inserted in the area and the cursor was moved to the area . Additionally the pad is removed from the display .

In an embodiment if the user did not intend for the next input to be inserted in the second area the user may select a backspace key a delete key or another suitable key pad etc. to cause the insertion of the next input in the second area to be undone and optionally insert the next input in the first area . For example illustrate the display after the user has selected the backspace key the delete key or the other suitable key pad etc. as described above according to an embodiment. The has been moved from the second area to the first area . Additionally the cursor has been moved from the second area to the first area . Further the cursor positioning pad is now displayed in the second area .

The expression is a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy. For example the first area may correspond to a first level and the second area may correspond to a second level. The second level is above the first level in the hierarchy in an embodiment.

A current input location is indicated by a cursor . As illustrated in the current input location is in the first area i.e. in the first level of the hierarchy. A cursor positioning pad is displayed in the second level to the right of the expression .

If the current input location represented by the cursor is within the first area and in the first level in the hierarchy and the user desires to move the current input location to within the second level the user may press the cursor positioning pad . In response to this press the calculator application may determine that the user selected the cursor positioning pad in a manner such as described above. In response the calculator application recognizes the user input and moves the current input location represented by the cursor outside of the first area to within the second level in the hierarchy in the area . When the cursor is within the second level of the hierarchy of the structured expression the cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed.

When the user enters a next input and the cursor is located as indicated in the next input may be analyzed to determine whether the next input should be inserted into the expression in the first area or level or in the area or level . As discussed above in some embodiments heuristics are utilized to determine in which area or level a next input should be inserted. Unlike the example discussed with respect to C and D the user began the exponent with a left parenthesis. This may indicate for the example that the user may intend for the exponent to be structurally complex e.g. that the exponent will have multiple terms. Thus unlike the example discussed with respect to C and D if the next input is it may be assumed that the user intended that the should be entered in the area i.e. as part of the exponent. illustrates the display after the user has entered according to an embodiment. The was inserted in the area and the cursor remains in the area .

In an embodiment if the user did not intend for the next input to be inserted in the second area the user may select a backspace key a delete key or another suitable key pad etc. to cause the movement of the cursor to the second area to be undone . For example illustrate the display after the user has selected the backspace key the delete key or the other suitable key pad etc. as described above according to an embodiment. The cursor has been moved from the second area to the first area and the cursor positioning pad is now displayed in the second area .

In some embodiments the next input is analyzed to determine if automatic movement of the position of interest to the next level within the structured input expression without the user first selecting an positioning pad will likely result in requiring less user input as compared to the user using the positioning pad to move the position of interest to the next level. For example the automatic movement of the position of interest discussed with respect to would result in the expression as illustrated in with only one user input i.e. the user entering . On the other hand the user first pressing the landing pad and then entering would also result in the expression as illustrated in but would require two user inputs pressing the landing pad and then entering . Similarly the automatic movement of the position of interest discussed with respect to would result in the expression and cursor position as illustrated in with only one user input i.e. the user entering . On the other hand the user entering and then pressing the landing pad would also result in the expression and cursor position as illustrated in but would require two user inputs entering and pressing the landing pad . In some embodiments the next input is analyzed using heuristics configured to determine if automatic movement of the position of interest to the next level within the structured input expression without the user first selecting an positioning pad will likely result in requiring less user input as compared to the user using the positioning pad to move the position of interest to the next level.

The expression is a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy. For example a first area may correspond to a first level and a second area may correspond to a second level. The second level is above the first level in the hierarchy in an embodiment.

In various embodiments which portion of the expression is to be selected in response to a user input e.g. a user input indicating a selection type of input is determined based on where on the expression the user input is directed. For example a calculator application as described above or another suitable application may make the determination. The user input indicating a selection type of input may be any suitable input such as a touchscreen press a touchscreen press sustained for a suitable amount of time e.g. 2 seconds a right mouse key selection while a mouse key is over the expression etc.

The application has selected a portion of the expression corresponding to the first level while other portions of the expression are not selected. In particular because the selection type user input was directed to the first area which corresponds to the first level of the hierarchy and because the first level of the hierarchy is below the second level a portion of the expression corresponding to the second level and outside of the first level is not selected. The application may indicate the selection of the portion by highlighting the portion for example and or using another suitable technique. In an embodiment the application may additionally display markers which indicate the extent of the selection. In an embodiment a user may be able to change which portion of the expression and or the extent of the selection by moving one or both of the markers .

In an embodiment the application displays a user interface to permit the user to take an action with respect to the selection such as i copy the selection to a clipboard and or ii delete the selection from the expression.

The application has selected a portion of the expression corresponding to both the second level and the first level. In particular because the selection type user input was directed to the second area which corresponds to the second level of the hierarchy and because the first level of the hierarchy is below the second level the portion of the expression corresponding to the first level is also selected. The application may indicate the selection of the portion by highlighting the portion for example and or using another suitable technique. In an embodiment the application may additionally display markers which indicate the extent of the selection. In an embodiment a user may be able to change which portion of the expression and or the extent of the selection by moving one or both of the markers .

In one embodiment a method for moving a cursor displayed via a display device of a computing device includes displaying via the display device an input field in which an expression can be entered wherein the input field includes a first area and a second area. The method also includes displaying via the display device a cursor within the input field the cursor indicating a location at which user input will next be entered within the expression. Additionally the method includes when the cursor is located within the first area displaying via the display device a first cursor positioning pad associated with the second area wherein the first cursor positioning pad is configured to enable moving the cursor out of the first area and into the second area. Further the method includes detecting with the computing device activation of the first cursor positioning pad by a user and in response to detecting activation of the first cursor positioning pad moving the cursor displayed via the display device from the first area to the second area. Still further the method includes when the cursor is in the second area no longer displaying the first cursor positioning pad via the display device.

In another embodiment a non transient tangible computer readable storage medium or media has stored thereon machine readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computing device cause the processor to implement the method described in the preceding paragraph.

In yet another embodiment a computing device comprises a display device a user input device and one or more processors. One or more memories and or computer readable storage devices are coupled to the one or more processors. The one or more memories have stored thereon machine readable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to implement the method described in the preceding paragraph.

In various other embodiments the method computer readable storage medium or media and or the computing device may comprise one or more of the following.

The first cursor positioning pad is displayed at a location to which the cursor is to be moved in response to detecting activation of the first cursor positioning pad.

The first area corresponds to an area within a first pair of brackets displayed in the input field and the second area corresponds to an area within a second pair of brackets displayed in the input field.

The first pair of brackets is located within the second pair of brackets and the second area corresponds to an area both i within the second pair of brackets and ii outside of the first pair of brackets.

After moving the cursor from the first area to the second area and when the cursor is located outside of the first area a second cursor positioning pad associated with the first area is displayed via the display device wherein the second cursor positioning pad is to enable moving the cursor to within the first area activation of the second cursor positioning pad is detected with the computing device in response to detecting activation of the second cursor positioning pad the cursor displayed via the display device is moved into the first area and when the cursor is in the first area the second cursor positioning pad is no longer displayed via the display device.

The second cursor positioning pad is displayed at a location to which the cursor is to be moved in response to detecting activation of the second cursor positioning pad.

It is predicted with the computing device that a user likely will move the cursor to a location in the second area wherein displaying the first cursor positioning pad is in response to predicting with the computing device that the user likely will move the cursor to the second area.

Predicting that the user likely will move the cursor to the location in the second area is based on a structure of an input expression in the input field.

In another embodiment a method for facilitating movement of a position of interest displayed via a display device includes displaying via the display device a structured object having a plurality of levels in a hierarchy or corresponding to a multi dimensional coordinate space analyzing with one or more processors the structured object to determine the plurality of levels including determining a first level and a second level in the plurality of levels determining with one or more processors which level in the plurality of levels the position of interest is currently located and when it is determined that the position of interest is currently located in the first level determining with the one or more processors a first next location in the second level of the object based on the determination that a current location of the position of interest is in the first level the first next location being a prediction of where the user will choose to move the position of interest subsequently from the current location displaying via the display device a first positioning pad corresponding to the first next location wherein the first positioning pad is to enable moving the position of interest to the first next location and when activation of the first positioning pad is detected i moving the position of interest from the current location in the first level to the first next location in the second level and ii no longer displaying the first positioning pad via the display device.

In another embodiment the method further includes analyzing with one or more processors a user input to be inserted in the structured object to determine whether the position of interest should be moved from the current location to the first next location in the second level and when it is determined that the position of interest should be moved from the current location to the first next location in the second level i moving the position of interest from the current location to the first next location in the second level and ii no longer displaying the first positioning pad via the display device.

In another embodiment the method further includes after moving the position of interest from the current location to the first next location in the second level receiving further user input indicating the position of interest should not have been moved to the first next location in the second level and moving with one or more processors the position of interest from the second level back to the first level.

In another embodiment a non transient tangible computer readable storage medium or media has stored thereon machine readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computing device cause the processor to implement any of the methods described in the preceding three paragraphs.

In yet another embodiment a computing device comprises a display device a user input device and one or more processors. One or more memories and or computer readable storage devices are coupled to the one or more processors. The one or more memories have stored thereon machine readable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to implement the method described in the preceding four paragraphs.

At least some of the various blocks operations and techniques described above may be implemented utilizing hardware a processor executing firmware instructions a processor executing software instructions or any combination thereof. When implemented utilizing a processor executing software or firmware instructions the software or firmware instructions may be stored in any tangible non transitory computer readable memory such as a magnetic disk an optical disk a RAM a ROM a flash memory etc. The software or firmware instructions may include machine readable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform various acts.

When implemented in hardware the hardware may comprise one or more of discrete components an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc.

While the present invention has been described with reference to specific examples which are intended to be illustrative only and not to be limiting of the invention it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that changes additions and or deletions may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

