---

title: Method and apparatus for restoring a joint, including the provision and use of a longitudinally-adjustable and rotationally-adjustable joint prosthesis
abstract: A joint prosthesis for mounting in a first bone and presenting a prosthetic joint surface for engaging an opposing joint surface of a second bone, the joint prosthesis comprising a sleeve which is adapted for partial disposition in an opening formed in the first bone; a center adapter which is adapted for disposition within the sleeve and a prosthetic joint surface mounted to the center′ adapter; wherein the disposition of the center adapter is adjustable, both longitudinally and rotationally, relative to the sleeve, so that the disposition of the 15 prosthetic joint surface is adjustable, both longitudinally and rotationally, relative to the opposing joint surface of the second bone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474618&OS=09474618&RS=09474618
owner: Simplicity Orthopedics, Inc.
number: 09474618
owner_city: North Andover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140107
---
This patent application is a continuation of pending prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 903 079 filed Oct. 12 2010 by Barry T. Bickley et al. for METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RESTORING A JOINT COMPRISING THE PROVISION AND USE OF A LONGITUDINALLY ADJUSTABLE AND ROTATIONALY ADJUSTABLE JOINT PROSTHESIS which in turn claims benefit of 

 i prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 278 782 filed Oct. 10 2009 by Barry T. Bickley et al. for METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RESTORING A JOINT COMPRISING THE PROVISION AND USE OF A LONGITUDINALLY ADJUSTABLE AND ROTATIONALLY ADJUSTABLE JOINT PROSTHESIS and

 ii prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 368 424 filed Jul. 28 2010 by Barry T. Bickley et al. for METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RESTORING A JOINT COMPRISING THE PROVISION AND USE OF A LONGITUDINALLY ADJUSTABLE AND ROTATIONALY ADJUSTABLE JOINT PROSTHESIS.

This invention relates to medical procedures and apparatus in general and more particularly to medical procedures and apparatus for restoring a joint.

Joint replacement surgery seeks to replace portions of a joint with prosthetic components so as to provide long lasting function and pain free mobility.

During joint replacement surgery one or more of the operative elements of the joint are replaced by prosthetic components. More particularly many joints e.g. the hip the shoulder etc. comprise a ball and socket construction. During total joint replacement surgery the head of the bone which provides the ball is replaced by a prosthetic ball and stem and the portion of the bone which provides the socket is replaced by a prosthetic cup whereby to provide the prosthetic total joint. In a partial joint replacement surgery only one of the operative elements of the joint may be replaced e.g. the head of the bone which provides the ball.

The present invention is directed to situations where the head of the bone which provides the ball is replaced by a prosthetic ball and stem or where the head of the bone which provides the socket is replaced by a prosthetic socket and stem as will hereinafter be discussed in further detail. For convenience the present invention will generally be discussed in the context of replacing the head of a bone with a prosthetic ball and stem although it should be appreciated that the present invention is equally applicable to situations where the head of a bone is replaced by a prosthetic socket and stem.

In order to replace the head of a bone with a prosthetic ball and stem the head of the bone is first distracted from its socket so as to expose the head of the bone. Then an osteotomy is performed so as to remove the neck and head of the bone from the remainder of the bone. This action also exposes the intramedullary canal sometimes hereinafter referred to as the bone canal of the bone. Next the proximal end of the bone canal is prepared to receive the stem of the prosthesis. More particularly a rasp reamer broach etc. is used to hollow out clean and enlarge the proximal end of the bone canal so as to create an elongated cavity which will receive the stem of the prosthesis. Finally the stem of the prosthesis is inserted into the bone canal so that the ball of the prosthesis is appropriately presented to the socket.

Typically the ball of the prosthesis is manufactured separately from the stem of the prosthesis with the ball component and the stem component being united at the time of use although it is also possible to form the ball integral with the stem at the time of manufacture.

Furthermore it should also be appreciated that during the surgery itself it is common to temporarily position a selected trial stem in the bone attach a selected trial ball to the positioned trial stem and then temporarily reduce the joint so as to confirm the joint reconstruction before the actual prosthetic stem is secured in position within the bone.

It will be appreciated that when replacing the head of a bone with a prosthetic ball and stem the surgeon must consider the position of the prosthetic ball relative to the socket and that this must be done in both longitudinal and rotational terms. Specifically the surgeon must consider i the longitudinal position of the prosthetic ball relative to the socket and ii the rotational position of the prosthetic ball relative to the socket. This is necessary because if either the longitudinal position or the rotational position of the prosthetic ball is off i.e. mispositioned vis vis the socket the ball will not seat properly in the socket and the prosthesis will not function as intended. As a practical matter these positioning considerations require that a large inventory of prosthetic devices of differing lengths and with differing angular orientations must be maintained so that the prosthetic ball can be properly positioned in the patient. However this is a costly requirement and failures in inventory re stocking can result in cancelled surgeries.

The present invention addresses the aforementioned problems associated with the prior art through the provision and use of a novel longitudinally adjustable and rotationally adjustable joint prosthesis.

More particularly the present invention comprises a new joint prosthesis for replacing the ball of a ball and socket joint. This new joint prosthesis comprises i a sleeve which is adapted for disposition in the intramedullary canal of a bone ii a center adapter which is adapted for disposition within the sleeve and iii a ball mounted to the center adapter wherein the disposition of the center adapter is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the sleeve so that the disposition of the ball is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the socket.

Alternatively the ball of the new prosthesis may be replaced by a socket in order that the new prosthesis may replace the socket of a ball and socket joint. In this case the disposition of the socket is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the sleeve so that the disposition of the socket is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the ball.

In one preferred form of the present invention there is provided a joint prosthesis for mounting in a first bone and presenting a prosthetic joint surface for engaging an opposing joint surface of a second bone the joint prosthesis comprising 

wherein the disposition of the center adapter is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the sleeve so that the disposition of the prosthetic joint surface is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the opposing joint surface of the second bone.

In another preferred form of the present invention there is provided a method for restoring a joint the method comprising 

providing a joint prosthesis for mounting in a first bone and presenting a prosthetic joint surface for engaging an opposing joint surface of a second bone the joint prosthesis comprising 

adjusting the longitudinal and rotational position of the center adapter with respect to the sleeve and

The present invention is directed at a new joint prosthesis for replacing the ball of a ball and socket joint. This new joint prosthesis comprises i a sleeve which is adapted for disposition in the intramedullary canal of a bone ii a center adapter which is adapted for disposition within the sleeve and iii a ball mounted to the center adapter wherein the disposition of the center adapter is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the sleeve so that the disposition of the ball is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the socket.

Alternatively the ball of the new prosthesis may be replaced by a socket in order that the new prosthesis might replace the socket of a ball and socket joint. In this case the disposition of the socket is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the sleeve so that the disposition of the socket is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally relative to the ball.

Looking first at there is shown a new joint prosthesis for replacing the ball of a ball and socket joint. Joint prosthesis generally comprises a sleeve which is adapted for disposition in the intramedullary canal of a bone. Sleeve generally comprises an elongated body having a central lumen formed therein and terminating at its proximal end in a crown having a plurality of peripheral detents formed therein. A center adapter is adapted for variable disposition within and extension out of central lumen of sleeve . The disposition of center adapter relative to sleeve is adjustable both longitudinally and rotationally. More particularly center adapter comprises an elongated shaft terminating in a head . Elongated shaft of center adapter comprises a mount section which comprises a plurality of horizontally extending slots and a plurality of longitudinally extending slots . A two piece collar having at least one longitudinally extending internal rib formed on at least one of the halves of the collar and having at least one horizontally extending internal rib formed on at least one of the halves of the collar and having at least one radially projecting nib is selectively fitted about crown of sleeve and mount section of center adapter as will hereinafter be discussed. Screws are used to selectively hold the two halves of collar together about crown of sleeve and mount section of center adapter .

On account of the foregoing construction when the two halves of collar are loose center adapter is able to move both longitudinally and rotationally relative to collar and collar is able to move both longitudinally and rotationally relative to sleeve since longitudinally extending internal rib of collar will not project into a longitudinally extending slot of center adapter and horizontally extending internal rib of collar will not project into a horizontally extending slot of center adapter and radially projecting nib of collar will not project into a peripheral detent of crown of sleeve . However when the two halves of collar are tightened about crown of sleeve and mount section of center adapter the collar makes a binding fit with i center adapter by virtue of the engagement of the collar s horizontally extending internal rib with one of the horizontally extending slots of the center adapter and by virtue of the engagement of the collar s longitudinally extending internal rib with one of the longitudinally extending slots of the center adapter and ii sleeve by virtue of the engagement of the collar s radially projecting nib with one of the peripheral detents on crown of sleeve . In this way by appropriately loosening collar about crown of sleeve and mount section of center adapter the disposition of head of center adapter may be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to sleeve and by appropriately tightening collar about crown of sleeve and mount section of center adapter the disposition of head of center adapter may be fixed relative to sleeve .

Ball is adapted to be secured to head of center adapter . By way of example but not limitation ball may include a stem for positioning in a recess formed in head .

Accordingly it will be appreciated that in view of the foregoing construction the disposition of ball can be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to sleeve and hence the disposition of ball may be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a bone in which sleeve is disposed. In this way the present invention provides a new joint prosthesis which permits the disposition of the ball to be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a socket.

If desired a cage may be mounted to the opposing side of head . By way of example but not limitation a screw received in a hole in cage and a hole in head may be used to secure cage to head . The provision of a cage on the prosthesis preferably diametrically opposed to the ball permits soft tissue or bone to be secured to the prosthesis e.g. with sutures.

Also if desired openings may be formed in center adapter e.g. in head in collar and or in cage so as to receive a suture or a suture anchor or like fastening element whereby to permit soft tissue and or bone to be secured to the joint prosthesis.

In use sleeve preferably having collar loosely secured thereto is disposed in the intramedullary canal of a bone center adapter preferably having ball secured thereto is inserted into central lumen of the sleeve and is moved longitudinally and rotationally as needed so as to present the ball for proper seating in the socket and then collar is tightened e.g. with screws so as to secure center adapter and hence ball in the desired longitudinal and rotational position relative to sleeve and hence in the desired longitudinal and rotational position relative to the socket.

Looking next at there is shown an alternative form of the new joint prosthesis for replacing the ball of a ball and socket joint. The new joint prosthesis of is generally similar to the joint prosthesis shown in except that i center adapter of is replaced by the center adapter shown in and ii collar of is replaced by the hinged collar shown in .

More particularly the center adapter of is substantially the same as the center adapter of except that the mount section of center adapter is replaced by the mount section of center adapter . In mount section the horizontally extending slots and the longitudinally extending slots are effectively superimposed on one another in the manner shown in .

In addition the hinged collar of comprises two halves which are hinged together by a pivot pin rising out of sleeve . A locking pin is used to selectively lock the two halves together. At least one and preferably both of the two halves includes longitudinally extending internal ribs which are formed on a horizontally extending internal rib . Thus with the construction shown in the longitudinally extending internal ribs are effectively superimposed on the horizontally extending internal ribs .

It will be appreciated that in this form of the invention when the two halves of collar are separated from one another the horizontally extending internal ribs and the longitudinally extending internal ribs of collar will be separated from the horizontally extending slots and the longitudinally extending slots of center adapter and the center adapter will be free to move longitudinally and rotationally relative to the collar and hence longitudinally and rotationally relative to the sleeve to which the collar is mounted.

It will also be appreciated that in this form of the invention when the two halves of collar are locked together with locking pin horizontally extending internal ribs of collar will seat in horizontally extending slots in center adapter and longitudinally extending internal ribs of collar will seat in longitudinally extending slots of center adapter whereby to lock center adapter longitudinally and rotationally relative to the collar and hence to the sleeve to which the collar is mounted.

Accordingly in view of the foregoing construction the disposition of ball can be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to sleeve and hence may be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a bone in which sleeve is disposed. In this way the present invention provides a new joint prosthesis which permits the disposition of the ball to be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a socket.

Looking next at there is shown another alternative form of the new joint prosthesis for replacing the ball of a ball and socket joint. The new joint prosthesis of is generally similar to the joint prosthesis shown in except that the collar used in the construction of is replaced by a latched collar as shown in .

More particularly latched collar comprises two halves pivotally mounted to the pivot pin of sleeve . The two halves of latched collar are substantially the same as the two halves of hinged collar except that the two halves of latched collar also each comprise a latch mechanism at its free end. Thus at least one and preferably both of the two halves includes a horizontally extending internal rib carrying a plurality of longitudinally extending internal ribs thereon. Accordingly it will be appreciated that with the construction shown in the longitudinally extending internal ribs are again effectively superimposed on the horizontally extending internal ribs . Latch mechanisms engage one another when the two halves are brought together so that the two halves can catch to one another. A locking pin may be used to secure the two halves in their closed condition.

It will be appreciated that in this form of the invention when the two halves of collar are separated from one another the horizontally extending internal ribs and the longitudinally extending internal ribs of collar will be separated from the horizontally extending slots and the longitudinally extending slots of center adapter and the center adapter will be free to move longitudinally and rotationally relative to the collar and hence longitudinally and rotationally relative to the sleeve to which the collar is mounted.

It will also be appreciated that in this form of the invention when the two halves of collar are locked together with locking pin horizontally extending internal ribs of collar will seat in horizontally extending slots in center adapter and longitudinally extending internal ribs of collar will seat in longitudinally extending slots of center adapter whereby to lock center adapter longitudinally and rotationally relative to the collar and hence to the sleeve to which the collar is mounted.

Accordingly in view of the foregoing construction the disposition of ball can be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to sleeve and hence may be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a bone in which sleeve is disposed. In this way the present invention provides a new joint prosthesis which permits the disposition of the ball to be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a socket.

Looking next at there is shown another alternative form of the new joint prosthesis for replacing the ball of a ball and socket joint. The new joint prosthesis of is generally similar to the joint prosthesis shown in except as will hereinafter be discussed.

More particularly with the joint prosthesis of collar is omitted and the sleeve of is replaced by a new sleeve . Sleeve comprises a plurality of horizontally extending internal ribs which are separated from one another by bands of recessed wall . Each of the horizontally extending external ribs carries a plurality of longitudinally extending internal ribs thereon. A threaded keyway is formed in the side wall of sleeve . Threaded keyway communicates with central lumen of sleeve .

In this form of the invention the center adapter of is replaced by a new center adapter . Center adapter is substantially the same as the center adapter of except that center adapter comprises a plurality of horizontally extending ribs which are separated from one another by bands of recessed wall . Thus the bands of recessed wall essentially comprise horizontally extending slots in center adapter . Each of the horizontally extending ribs carries a plurality of longitudinally extending slots thereon.

And in this form of the invention there is also provided a key lock which is radially movable along threaded keyway via a screw .

As a result of this construction and looking now at when it is desirable to adjust the position either longitudinally or rotationally of center adapter relative to sleeve key lock is backed out along threaded keyway center adapter is moved longitudinally relative to sleeve as desired and then in order to accommodate rotational adjustment center adapter is moved slightly longitudinally if and as needed so as to align the horizontally extending ribs of center adapter with the bands of recessed wall of sleeve and so as to align the bands of recessed wall of center adapter with the horizontally extending ribs of of sleeve whereupon the rotational position of the center adapter may be adjusted vis vis the sleeve. Then center adapter is moved longitudinally slightly so that the horizontally extending ribs of the center adapter are aligned with the horizontally extending ribs of sleeve with the longitudinally extending internal ribs of sleeve being received within the longitudinally extending slots of center adapter . This action locks center adapter against rotational movement relative to sleeve . Then key lock is advanced along threaded keyway via screw until the inner end of the key lock engages one of the bands of recessed wall in center adapter . In other words the distal end of key lock projects into the horizontally extending slot formed in the center adapter by the band of recessed wall disposed between two adjacent horizontally extending ribs . This action locks center adapter against longitudinal movement relative to sleeve since the inner end of key lock engages the two horizontally extending ribs of center adapter which are disposed on either side of key lock.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that in view of the foregoing construction the disposition of ball can be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to sleeve and hence the disposition of ball may be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a bone in which sleeve is disposed. In this way the present invention provides a new joint prosthesis which permits the disposition of the ball to be adjusted both longitudinally and rotationally relative to a socket.

It is also possible for the prosthesis to provide a socket rather than a ball at the free end of the center adapter.

Thus for example shows a novel joint prosthesis which provides a socket rather than the head and ball at the proximal end of center adapter . In this respect it should also be appreciated that the joint prosthesis shown in comprises the aforementioned center adapter except modified to include socket in combination with the aforementioned sleeve with key lock being used to selectively lock center adapter to sleeve . Thus in this form of the invention rotational locking is provided by virtue of the disposition of the longitudinally extending internal ribs in the longitudinally extending slots of center adapter and longitudinal locking is provided by virtue of the disposition of the toe of key lock in the horizontally extending slots in center adapter .

By way of further example show another novel joint prosthesis which provides an alternative form of socket at the distal end of center adapter . If desired a support collar may be provided between the top of sleeve and the bottom of socket so as to provide increased support for the socket element. Furthermore if desired this support collar may be formed in two separate halves united at the time of use so as to facilitate deployment at the surgical site.

The device and its associated method of use provide in one exemplary use a proximal humerus replacement prosthesis. The purpose of this exemplary device is to replace the humeral head articular surface when the bone is damaged. These situations would include fractures and or dislocation aseptic necrosis or various forms of arthritis such as osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis or post traumatic arthritis failed joint replacement or any other situation where arthrodesis or other reconstructive procedures would not be expected to give a satisfactory outcome.

The exemplary shoulder prosthesis system includes prosthetic components and instrumentation for the implantation of a modular proximal humerus replacement. Some unique aspects of this system among others are that it allows adjustment of the final prosthesis in height and rotation version i.e. longitudinally and rotationally as well as having special features to facilitate re attachment of bone and soft tissue if that is desired. The height and version i.e. the longitudinal disposition and the rotational disposition of the humeral prosthesis are critical factors in performing a shoulder replacement procedure. These variables are particularly difficult to measure in cases of fracture or other situations of distorted anatomy such as aseptic necrosis or fracture malunion. These variables are normally measured through a trialing process. However in the setting of a fracture it is very difficult to secure the trial to the shaft of the humerus. Therefore the trial moves and shifts easily making measurements very inaccurate and hard to reproduce. Some alterations to the trial as well as holding jigs have been tried with varying degrees of success. Patient size and position also contribute to inaccuracy. Finally there is the difficulty of making measurements based on landmarks that are fairly distant such as the transcondylar axis at the distal humerus and forearm external rotation as references for prosthetic rotation. Adding to the difficulty is the fact that once the final components are placed either by cementing or in a press fit fashion there is no allowance for adjustment. The prosthesis position cannot be changed without significant structural risk to the shoulder bone stock. This causes significant delays in the procedure as the surgeon checks and re checks the position of the trial knowing that no changes can be made once the final prosthesis is secured in place.

The shoulder prosthesis system of the present invention however has a distinctive mechanism that simplifies the procedure and allows for adjustment of these critical factors with the final prosthesis. The procedure and method for placement of the shoulder prosthesis follows. The process of describing the procedure will also outline the key design features of the system.

The first step in the procedure is to prepare the humeral shaft. This is done by reaming the intramedullary canal to create space for and determine the size of the initial component. This initial component is a tubular sleeve with a flange like collar at its top end e.g. the aforementioned sleeve . See . Note that the tubular sleeve shown in is substantially the same as the sleeve disclosed above except that the flange like collar F shown in is not circular. More particularly the flange like collar F is preferably extended radially outwardly in the portion containing threaded keyway whereby to make the key lock disposed in threaded keyway more easily accessible to the surgeon.

The sleeve will be cemented into place in the same fashion as for all prosthesis of the shoulder. The sleeve is cemented fully seated down to its collar and need only be cemented in a position that allows access to the key lock portion of the collar described below . The sleeve s collar is preferably protected by a separate cover not shown during the cementing procedure in order to prevent cement from getting into the mechanisms on the collar which are used to secure the center adapter to the collar. Once the cement is hardened and all extraneous cement is removed the protective cover is removed. It is into this sleeve that the prosthesis stem e.g. the aforementioned center adapter is placed. See .

The sleeve diameter selected determines the corresponding prosthesis stem e.g. center adapter that will fit into the sleeve. Therefore once the reaming is completed and determines the sleeve diameter that in turn determines the prosthesis stem e.g. center adapter that fits the sleeve. No further trialing is necessary inasmuch as the sleeve and stem e.g. center adapter are provided as a matched set.

The upper portion of the sleeve and the shaft of the prosthesis stem e.g. center adapter have a mechanism that allows the coupling of the two components but also allows adjustment for both height and rotation. See for example which shows the aforementioned sleeve and the aforementioned center adapter . As discussed above sleeve comprises a plurality of horizontally extending internal ribs which are separated from one another by bands of recessed wall . Each of the horizontally extending external ribs carries a plurality of longitudinally extending internal ribs thereon. A threaded keyway is formed in the side wall of sleeve . Threaded keyway communicates with central lumen of sleeve . As also discussed above center adapter comprises a plurality of horizontally extending ribs which are separated from one another by bands of recessed wall . Thus the bands of recessed wall essentially comprise horizontally extending slots in center adapter . Each of the horizontally extending ribs carries a plurality of longitudinally extending slots thereon. And as also discussed above the key lock is radially movable along threaded keyway via a screw so as to secure center adapter in a desired position relative to sleeve .

All known current prostheses do not allow any significant adjustment of the prosthesis after the cement has hardened. However since with the present invention a cylindrical sleeve is installed first it provides a foundation from which the stem e.g. center adapter can be adjusted. It is the aforementioned coupling mechanism between the sleeve and the stem e.g. center adapter that allows this adjustment option. This is a tremendous advantage to the surgeon and patient as the position of the articular surface can be optimized rather than having only one chance to estimate the proper position while cementing in a final prosthesis that is firmly fixed after the cement hardens.

From the foregoing disclosure it will be appreciated that in one form of the invention the coupling mechanism entails a series of splines on the shaft of the stem that match into corresponding splines on the upper portion of the sleeve. In one preferred form of the invention there are three levels of splines within the sleeve to engage three levels of splines on the stem e.g. center adapter . Engaging three levels of splines creates strength in resisting rotational force and also the top to bottom length of this engagement prevents toggle of the stem e.g. center adapter within the sleeve as well. These splines on each component are separated by a smooth recessed area. This smooth band is preferably laser marked black to assist in demonstrating proper positioning of the stem e.g. center adapter for adjustment and locking options as described below. It will be appreciated that the distance between the spline bands sets the increment of height change and the number of splines determines the increment of rotational adjustment. The coupling mechanism is preferably constructed so that it allows rotational adjustment in 10 degree increments and height adjustment in 4 mm increments. The sleeve has a locking key that is driven by a screw mechanism. As the screw is turned in a clockwise direction it drives the locking key toward the center of the sleeve. When the stem e.g. center adapter is aligned with a dark laser marked smooth area exposed immediately above the flange like collar F this is the locking position. In this position the splines on the stem e.g. center adapter are engaged with the splines on the sleeve and a smooth area is aligned with the entry window of the locking key. As the locking key advances forward it fits into the smooth area on the shaft of the stem e.g. center adapter below the first engaged spline at the top of the sleeve. With the locking key tightened into place this holds the prosthesis stem e.g. center adapter within the sleeve preventing any superior or inferior movement of the stem e.g. center adapter . At the same time in this position the splines are engaged as well locking the prosthesis in rotation.

If adjustment is desired then the key lock is backed up to disengage the prosthesis stem e.g. center adapter . The stem can then glide superiorly or inferiorly to adjust the height of the prosthesis. If rotational adjustment is desired then the stem e.g. center adapter is held so one of the splines aligns with the superior rim of the sleeve. This puts the splines in alignment with the smooth bands and thus they do not engage. In this way rotation can be adjusted. When the desired rotation is obtained then the stem e.g. center adapter is moved either superiorly or inferiorly so the splines engage at the desired height. The key lock is advanced with the stem e.g. center adapter held in the locking position and a laser marked black smooth band aligned at the top edge of the sleeve.

When the final desired height and rotation are obtained and the key lock is tightened into place a locking cover is preferably applied to the sleeve so as to close off keyway . This locking cover fits into grooves which are formed within the window for the key lock on the sleeve. See . The locking cover covers the key lock abutting against it and preventing back out of the key lock. If the key lock cannot move backward then the coupling mechanism remains secure. However even at this stage the locking cover can be easily removed from the sleeve and allow access to the key lock if needed. The locking cover preferably has scallops at its superior and inferior margins in order to accommodate a flat removal tool. This removal tool can easily lever out the locking cover if further adjustment of the prosthesis is deemed necessary. Therefore the surgeon can make adjustments to the prosthesis position at any time in the procedure and is never at a point where this option is eliminated.

Re attachment of soft tissue and bone are frequently needed in a joint restoration procedure particularly in the instance of a fracture. The greater and lesser tuberosity fragments have the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles attached to them. They are usually re attached by suturing them to the prosthesis and the shaft of the bone. However there is a high failure rate of the tuberosities uniting. Because a prosthesis is made of metal and while it is often coated with a substance to enhance healing it is difficult for fractured bone to heal to such a surface. This is made worse by the fact that there is frequently diminished surface area contact between the bone and such a surface. Some prostheses allow for some bone graft to be placed through a window in the prosthesis to facilitate bone to bone healing. This has improved tuberosity union rates confirming that the concept is sound. However the shape of such a bone plug in a small window on the prosthesis also does not allow enough surface area to allow good opportunity for healing.

To address this issue the shoulder prosthesis of the present invention preferably has an optional bone cage that can be applied to the back of the prosthesis e.g. the cage previously discussed. See . This cage can be packed with bone graft or similar bone substitute and or osteoconductive material. The windows of the bone cage are shaped and sized to maximize contact of the graft and the native bone being applied. The bone graft could be packed separately in a holding bowl that could stabilize the cage. Once the bone graft is sufficiently packed it can be compressed with a tamp that is shaped like the back side of the prosthesis in order to ensure proper fit once the cage was applied to the prosthesis. With the graft packing completed the cage can then be applied to the prosthesis and secured with a screw e.g. screw . Significantly because the bone cage is preferably shaped so as to follow the contours of the back of the prosthesis stem the forces on the screw are dispersed. In addition there is preferably a slight offset between the threaded hole in the prosthesis e.g. the aforementioned hole and the hole in the back of the bone cage e.g. the aforementioned hole . As the screw fully seats it places some tension on the bone cage. This tension which places a lateral force on the shaft of the screw will prevent the screw from backing out. The bone cage preferably also has multiple attachment points for suturing of the tuberosities to the prosthesis in order to ensure secure hold and apposition to the graft.

An additional feature that is present to enhance attachment of bone and soft tissue to the prosthesis are optional suture anchors that can be placed in threaded holes on the prosthesis stem s head portion e.g. the threaded holes shown in . See for example . which shows bone anchors with attached suture disposed in head . These suture anchors can be placed anteriorly as well as posteriorly. Because the stem e.g. center adapter of the prosthesis can be rotated and adjusted at any time this allows access to the posterior aspect of the prosthesis for anchoring of the tuberosities in a fracture setting.

Normally with the prosthesis fixed in place it is very difficult to access the posterior aspect and all of the anchoring is applied to the anterior accessible aspect. These additional features increase the choices available to the surgeon to achieve bony and soft tissue union in this very difficult reconstructive environment. Because these features are optional the surgeon can use them at his her discretion to address the situation at hand.

It will be appreciated that the prosthesis of the present invention may be used in a variety of joints within the body e.g. the elbow the wrist the distal radius proximal radius hip etc.

It should be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the present invention may be made by those skilled in the art while still remaining within the principles and scope of the invention.

