---

title: Techniques for power source management using a wrist-worn device
abstract: A method, apparatus, and/or system for patient wellness monitoring using a wrist-worn device is disclosed. The wrist-worn device may include a faceplate device and a wristband monitoring device. In one step, it may be determined that the faceplate device is detached from the wristband monitoring device. In response to the determination, the wristband monitoring device may operate on battery power. A sensor may be activated on the wristband monitoring device to collect vital sign information of a user. The vital sign information of the user may be wirelessly transmitted from the wristband monitoring device and received by the faceplate device. Upon determining that the faceplate device is attached to the wristband monitoring device, a battery on the wristband monitoring device may be charged.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09197082&OS=09197082&RS=09197082
owner: 
number: 09197082
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141209
---
This disclosure relates in general to power source management and but not by way of limitation to systems and methods that are used to manage the power source of devices used to monitor the wellness of a patient.

In the United States it is estimated that 32 million people use three or more medications daily. 67 million or 31 percent of American adults have high blood pressure. 29 million or 9.3 percent of people in the United States are diabetic. The medical cost of obesity in the United States in 2008 alone was approximately 147 billion. The statistics are staggering as more and more individuals find themselves in need of medical treatment.

A patient undergoing medical treatment may often be prescribed one or more therapies by his or her physician. Unfortunately many people who are undergoing treatment do not follow the regimen as directed by their doctor or pharmacist. In fact as many as 75 of patients fail to adhere to or comply with physician prescribed treatment regimens. Non adherence examples include but are not limited to failing to take a medication failing to take various sensor e.g. blood pressure heart rate glucose readings failing to exercise to name a few. Monitoring a patient s overall wellness is difficult for medical personnel as patient data is typically collected and available to the medical personnel only when the patient avails himself to a doctor s office or hospital.

Current techniques related to self monitoring wellness using a monitoring device are lacking with respect to power management. For example a patient may have to remove a body worn device in order to charge the device. During charging the device may not be monitoring the user. This is especially detrimental to the user who may be using the device to actively monitor serious health concerns.

In one example embodiment the present disclosure provides a wrist worn device for managing patient wellness. The wrist worn device includes one or more processors and one or more memories coupled with the one or more processors. The one or more processors and one or more memories are configured to perform operations. The operations include receiving by the wrist worn device a therapy for a user. The therapy may specify one or more treatments selected by a care provider. A regimen may be determined by the wrist worn device for the user based on the therapy. A sensor on the wristband monitoring device may be activated to collect vital sign information of a user. Vital sign information of the user may be received by the faceplate device from the wristband monitoring device. The wristband monitoring device may be caused to operate on battery power when it is determined that the faceplate device is detached from the wristband device. A battery on the wristband monitoring device may be charged when it is determined that the faceplate device is attached to the wristband monitoring device. The vital sign information may be wirelessly transmitted away from the wrist worn device.

In another example embodiment the present disclosure provides a computer implemented method for managing patient wellness with a wrist worn device. The method includes determining that the faceplate device is detached from the wristband monitoring device. In response to the determination the wristband monitoring device may operate on battery power. A sensor may be activated on the wristband monitoring device to collect vital sign information of a user. The vital sign information of the user may be wirelessly transmitted from the wristband monitoring device and received by the faceplate device. Upon determining that the faceplate device is attached to the wristband monitoring device a battery on the wristband monitoring device may be charged.

In yet another example embodiment the present disclosure provides a non transitory computer readable storage medium for managing patient wellness having computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations include determining that the faceplate device is detached from the wristband monitoring device. In response to the determination the wristband monitoring device may be caused to operate from an alternative power source. A sensor on the wristband monitoring device may be activated to collect vital sign information of a user. The vital sign information of the user may be wirelessly transmitting from the wristband monitoring device and received by the faceplate device. The vital sign information may be wirelessly transmitted away from the wrist worn device.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale. In certain instances details that are not necessary for an understanding of the invention or that render other details difficult to perceive may have been omitted. It should be understood that the invention is not necessarily limited to the particular embodiments illustrated herein.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It should be understood that various changes could be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims. Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

As described in the background of this disclosure embodiments of the present invention comprise methods for monitoring patient wellness. Specifically these methods include the use of a wrist worn device. The wrist worn device may include one or many sensors that may be used to track vital signs and or locational information of the patient. As used herein a sensor may comprise an accelerometer a gyroscope a blood oxygen level monitor heart rate monitor a blood pressure monitor a glucose monitor a thermometer a global positioning system GPS device a pedometer or an altimeter. Additionally the device may be capable of presenting notification to the user. These notifications may be audible haptic graphical or textual in nature. The wrist worn device may include a wristband monitoring device connected to a faceplate device for caring out the features described herein. The wristband monitoring device has a number of sensors located on the band to measure various vital signs and visual indicators e.g. LED lights to indicate charging and sensor activation. The faceplate device includes a number of sensors a wireless transmitter a battery charger and a user interface e.g. a touch screen for interacting with the user and remote systems.

Generally speaking embodiments of the present invention enable a patient to more effectively adhere to a physician prescribed therapy using the wrist worn device described above. Additionally these embodiments enable ongoing monitoring of a patient s overall wellness.

Embodiments for the present invention comprise wrist worn devices and methods for managing patient wellness. In at least one example a wrist worn device e.g. a watch is preconfigured with information regarding at least one therapy. For instance the watch is preconfigured to be used for a blood pressure therapy. As used herein a therapy may include one or more medical treatments including but not limited to one or more prescribed medications one or more physical activities one or more sensor reading requirements or any combination of the above. In at least one example information is loaded onto the watch by a physician a pharmacist or another service provider. The pre loaded information is then used to determine a regimen to be followed. A regimen as used herein is intended to mean a schedule specifying at least one situation for which at least one event associated with one or more therapies should be performed. For instance a regimen may indicate that an event e.g. medication intake exercise commencement sensor reading commencement should occur at pre determined periodic times.

Consider the case where a patient is diagnosed with high blood pressure. His physician prescribes medication A and instructs the patient to take 500 mg of medication A twice daily once in the morning once in the evening with each dose to be taken shortly after a meal. Additionally the physician instructs the patient to take his own blood pressure and document the results 3 times daily equally spanned over the course of the day. In this example the physician preconfigures a watch with this therapy. A regimen schedule is generated by the watch based on the therapy. The regimen defines at least one day and time during which the patient should take his 500 mg of medication A. The regimen can further define when blood pressure readings may be taken. The watch can generate reminders for the users based on the regimen. Additionally the watch may stimulate sensor reading intake based on the regimen or by user initiation.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the watch receives user input indicating compliance with the therapy. For instance continuing with the previous example the user is reminded to eat prior to taking his medication. Subsequent to the reminder being presented to the user the user may be prompted for input. The prompt may be included in the reminder or may exist as a separate prompt. In at least one example the reminder constitutes a textual message presented on the faceplate device and or an audible alert sounded by the faceplate device. The user acknowledges the reminder by dismissing the reminder and or turning off the audible sound. In some cases dismissing the reminder and or turning off the audible sound may be considered user input indicating compliance with the reminder. In at least one example the user is queried regarding his compliance. For instance the user is posed the question did you eat a meal The user enters input indicating either that he did eat a meal or alternatively that he did not eat a meal. In at least one example a Bluetooth device is used to enter user input indicating compliance with the reminder. For instance a medication container having Bluetooth communication capabilities sends to the watch an indication that the medication container has been opened. This indication alone or in combination with the reminder information constitutes user input indicating that the user has complied with taking his medication.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the watch generates reminder events at the time the patient is supposed to take the medication. The user responds in a similar fashion as described above by dismissing the reminder turning off the audible sound or affirmatively answering a question posed by the device. In at least one example the regimen dictates that the watch query the user with a question some period of time after the user has indicated that he has taken the medication. For instance the user enters compliance input indicating that he has taken his blood pressure medication. The regimen specifies that one hour after receipt of the user compliance input the user be asked Are you feeling dizzy The user makes a selection on the watch indicating a response to the question. The response is recorded by the watch and reported wirelessly away from the watch e.g. to a server responsible for storing such information or alternatively stored on the watch.

In at least one embodiment the regimen causes a blood pressure sensor to be activated some period after the user compliance input has been received and or at another suitable time as defined by the regimen. The period between sensor activations may vary depending on the therapy and may further depend on user input. For example the device may pose a question to the user to determine whether to initiate the sensor reading. For instance the device poses the question are you ready to take your blood pressure In at least one example the user is required to indicate agreement before the sensor reading commences. Alternatively the watch may initiate a sensor reading without user interaction. The watch records any sensor readings taken and reports the sensor readings away from the watch e.g. to a server responsible for storing such information . Alternatively the watch may store such sensor readings on the wrist worn device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment previously received user input is used to modify a regimen. User input as described above includes user actions taken in response to presented reminders user actions taken regarding Bluetooth enabled containers user responses to questions posed by the watch and or a lack of a user response. User input may be recorded by the watch at any suitable time. In at least one example the watch reports user input electronically to a physician and or pharmacist for example. This report may be reported in an email message a text message or any suitable type of electronic communication. Based on the report or at any suitable time the physician and or pharmacist modify the prescribed therapy. This modification is electronically communicated to the watch. In response to the modification the watch alters the therapy and or regimen to reflect the modification. Additionally or alternatively the watch modifies the regimen based on the received user responses in accordance with the therapy. For instance the therapy is configured to adjust medication in response to a certain one or more user inputs. In one illustrative example the regimen indicates that the user take 500 mg of medication A once a day. However the user is posed a question such as do you feel dizzy at some point in therapy in accordance with the current regimen. The user indicates that he feels dizzy. Based on the affirmative response the watch automatically modifies the regimen such that the user is prompted to take another 500 mg dose of medication A. Alternatively the watch indicates to the user that he should refrain from taking any more medication. A variety of modifications may be determined and would depend on the particular therapy being implemented and the user input received.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may detach a faceplate device on the wrist worn device from a wristband device in order to charge the faceplate device e.g. via A C adaptor via proximity charging or inductive charging techniques including magnetic or acoustic methods . While the faceplate device is charging the user may wear and operate the wristband device. While detached the wristband monitoring device and faceplate monitoring device may still communicate with one another wirelessly e.g. via Bluetooth . During such time the wristband device may operate using a power source located on the wristband device e.g. a battery . When the faceplate device has charged the user may reattach the faceplate device to the wristband device. Upon reattachment a power source located on the wristband monitoring device may charge from a power source located on the faceplate device.

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts depicts an example environment of an embodiment of a power management engine included in a wellness monitoring engine. The wrist worn device can include a wellness monitoring engine . The wellness monitoring engine may include a power management engine . In accordance with at least one embodiment the wrist worn device may be pre configured with a prescribed therapy e.g. by a medical provider . The wrist worn device may include a wristband monitoring device and a faceplate device . The wrist worn device utilizes one or more sensors e.g. on the wristband monitoring device to monitor the patient s vital signs according to the regimen. The wrist worn device enables interaction between the wellness monitoring engine and the user. The wrist worn device may be used to illicit user input to display information to the user to wirelessly transmit patient data to service provider computers and to receive information or data from service provider computers .

In at least one embodiment the wellness monitoring engine is a component of the wrist worn device . Service provider computers includes one or more computing devices responsible for storing and or managing medical related data associated with the patient. Service provider computers may communicate wirelessly with wellness monitoring engine to provide information regarding the therapy via a network . This information includes therapy configuration. Additionally as described above the medical provider can utilize the medical provider device to modify a therapy. Such modifications are communicated to service provider computers via the network . Service provider computers records such modifications and communicates the modifications to wellness monitoring engine . Wellness monitoring engine generates a new regimen or alternatively alters an existing regimen in accordance with the modifications.

In some embodiments network is a cellular network. Wrist worn device may exchange cellular network control timing and status information with a cellular network access point so as to maintain communication capabilities in the cellular network. Cellular network access points may provide access to the internet or other data networks. The wrist worn device may establish an internet connection by detecting a cellular access point performing joining procedures and regularly exchanging status control and routing information with the access point. The wrist worn device may use the internet connection to access weather data GPS data or to communicate with other devices described herein.

In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may be operated separately from faceplate device . For example a user wanting to sleep with a less bulky apparatus may detach faceplate device from wristband monitoring device . While detached the faceplate device may be charged via a charging dock an A C adaptor inductive charging using magnetic or acoustic methods or any suitable means for charging an electronic device. While detached faceplate device and wristband monitoring device may continue communicating e.g. via Bluetooth . For example perhaps user s regimen specifies that blood pressure readings are to be taken every three hours. Faceplate device may continue to activate sensors on wristband monitoring device according to the regimen. Accordingly wristband monitoring device may wirelessly transmit e.g. via Bluetooth vital sign information to faceplate device . While detached wristband monitoring device may be configured to run on an alternate power source e.g. a battery located on wristband monitoring device . When reattached faceplate device may serve as a charging source e.g. via inductive charging for wristband monitoring device . In this manner the user may continue to have his vital signs monitored while wearing only the wristband monitoring device . Additionally wristband monitoring device is configured to be charged from faceplate device without the need to remove wristband monitoring device from the user.

The wristband monitoring device is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include a processing unit s which can include without limitation one or more general purpose processors one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or the like and or other processing structure or means which can be configured to perform one or more of the methods described herein.

The wristband monitoring device might also include a wireless communication interface which can include without limitation a modem a network card an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or a chipset such as a Bluetooth device an IEEE 802.11 device an IEEE 802.15.4 device a Wi Fi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The wireless communication interface may permit data to be exchanged with a network wireless access points other computer systems and or any other electronic devices described herein. The communication can be carried out via one or more wireless communication antenna s that send and or receive wireless signals . In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may communicate with faceplate device via the wireless communication interface .

Depending on desired functionality the wireless communication interface can include separate transceivers to communicate with base transceiver stations e.g. base transceiver stations of a cellular network and access points. These different data networks can include an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA Code Divisional Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or other types of networks.

The wristband monitoring device can further include sensor s . Such sensors can include without limitation one or more accelerometer s and or gyroscope s altimeter s blood oxygen level sensor s heart rate monitor s blood pressure monitor s glucose monitor s pedometer s GPS s thermometer s and the like. At least a subset of the sensor s can provide readings used to provide wellness monitoring as described herein.

Embodiments of wristband monitoring device may also include a Satellite Positioning System SPS receiver capable of receiving signals from one or more SPS satellites using an SPS antenna . Such positioning can be utilized to complement and or incorporate the techniques described herein. The SPS receiver can receive satellite data that can be transmitted to the GPS sensor . The satellite data can be information sufficient to allow the GPS sensor to determine a geographic location of the wristband monitoring device based on the satellite data. It can be noted that as used herein an SPS may include any combination of one or more global and or regional navigation satellite systems and or augmentation systems and SPS signals may include SPS SPS like and or other signals associated with such one or more SPS.

Embodiments of wristband monitoring device may also include an identification device . Identification device may include a device that utilizes radio frequencies in communication e.g. a radio frequency identification RFID device . A RFID device is a device that uses electromagnetic fields to transfer data for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects the tags containing electronically stored information. Other identification devices may be utilized including but not limited to devices utilizing near field communication NFC . NFC is a set of standards used by smartphone and similar devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bring them into proximity of one another. In at least one embodiment 

The wristband monitoring device may further include or be in communication with a memory . The memory is an example of a computer readable storage media. In at least one example computer readable storage media include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of computer storage media that may be included in the wristband monitoring device may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the wristband monitoring device . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Memory can further be used to store sensor data for any combination of sensors in data store . Additionally or alternatively memory may be used to store medical related data for the user.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory in at least one embodiment includes an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the perceived latency such as via the wristband monitoring device or dedicated applications. In at least one example embodiment the wristband monitoring device is configured to receive store and or display content and at least one interface for interacting with the service provider computers and or user. Additionally the memory stores access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information includes information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. Additionally the user information may include medical related data associated with the user.

As used herein medical related data can include for example health information that is created or received by a health care provider a processed or unprocessed version of medical data detected by medical equipment and or user identified data. Medical related data can include information that identifies a patient such as personal information and or demographic information. For example the information can identify a patient s name age sex race physical address phone number email address and or social security number. Medical related data may include information collected by a health plan a public health authority an employer a life insurer a school or university or a health care clearinghouse that relates to the past present or future physical or mental health or condition of any individual.

Medical related data can include financial and or insurance information corresponding to the patient. For example the information can identify an insurance company insurance plan member identification number group number insurance contact information e.g. address and or phone number deductible information out of pocket information copay information an employer an occupation and or salary information.

Medical related data can include medical history information such as past diagnoses past or present symptoms or past procedures and or corresponding dates e.g. of diagnoses symptom initiations and or procedures . Medical related data can identify past or present medications being taken by or having been prescribed to the patient and corresponding dates. In some examples the medical related data can identify orders pharmacology orders whether associated with a patient doctor or otherwise.

Medical related data can include an identification of one or more medical services being or having been requested by a patient. A medical service can include for example an evaluation performed by a medical care professional a medical test a surgery and or other procedure. Medical related data can identify a medical test or analysis that was performed or prescribed and or a result of the test or analysis. For example information can indicate that a test e.g. lab test MRI x ray CT scan echocardiography EKG EEG EMG or ultrasound was performed on a particular date and or by a particular entity and can further include a processed and or unprocessed result of the test e.g. a count or level an indication as to whether a test result is normal and or an indication as to whether a particular feature e.g. a fracture tumor lesion slowed nerve conduction was observed and or a magnitude of the feature .

Medical related data can identify one or more care providers or institutions. The care provider and or institution can be one associated with recent or past care and or with the patient. For example data can be transmitted for a patient admitted in Hospital A and being treated by Specialist B though the data can also identify that the patient s primary care physician is Doctor C.

Medical related data can identify one or more emergency contacts or family members and contact data for the individuals. For example medical related data can identify that the patient s emergency contact is an adult child that may be contacted at a provided phone number.

Medical related data can identify a patient healthcare directive. For example medical related data can identify if the patient has a living will a do not resuscitate order DNR or if another individual has the right to make medical decisions relating to the patient s medical care.

Medical related data may further include one or more authorized viewers. Authorized viewers are those that the user has agreed to allow access to his medical related data. For example a user may authorize a doctor an individual having rights to make medical decision related to the patient s medical care a medical institution and the like to access his medical related data. The user may indicate that the authorization is contingent on certain events transpiring e.g. an emergency situation .

Medical related data may or may not selectively pertain to a particular patient. For example non patient specific data may include a price of a prescription a recommended or approved dosing schedule for a medication a work schedule for a physician an acceptance criteria for a clinical study Non patient specific data can include information pertaining to the operation of a medical care facility financial information administrative information and generic clinical information.

Medical related data can depending on the implementation include individually identifiable health information and or de identified information. Individually identifiable health information includes for example health information including demographic information collected from an individual that is created or received by a health care provider health plan employer or health care clearinghouse and that relates to the past present or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual the provision of health care to an individual or the past present or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual and that identifies the individual or with respect to which there is a reasonable basis to believe can be used to identify the individual. De identified information includes information that cannot be used on its own or with other information to identify a person to whom the information belongs. De identified information can include normal ranges or values associated with various sensor data based on gender age or other classification. De identified information can also include medical related data aggregated from other wrist worn device users or non users related.

As used herein medical related data can include protected health information which can include individually identifiable health information that is transmitted by electronic media maintained in electronic media or transmitted or maintained in any other form or medium. Examples of protected health information include for example any information about health status provision of health care or payment that can be linked to a particular patient and may include any of the following information capable of identifying the patient names geographic identifiers dates directly relating to the patient phone numbers fax numbers email addresses social security numbers medical record numbers health insurance beneficiary numbers account numbers certificate license numbers vehicle identifiers and serial numbers device identifiers and serial numbers web Uniform Resource Locators Internet Protocol addresses biometric identifiers e.g. finger retinal and voice prints full face photographic images and any comparable images and any other unique identifying number characteristic or code.

The memory of the wristband monitoring device also can comprise software elements not shown device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein.

The wristband monitoring device includes a output device . Output device may include LED lights or other visual or audible indicators. The output device may be used to indicate when a sensor is activated when a reading is being taken when the wristband monitoring device is being charged when the wristband monitoring device is low on power and the like.

The wristband monitoring device includes a power source and a means to charge said power source indicated by power input s . In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may be connected to faceplate device and the power source of the wristband monitoring device may be charged e.g. via inductive charging including magnetic or acoustic methods from the battery of faceplate device . The power source may include a battery a capacitor or any other suitable means for storing chemical or electrical energy for later use.

The faceplate device is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include a processing unit s which can include without limitation one or more general purpose processors one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or the like and or other processing structure or means which can be configured to perform one or more of the methods described herein.

The faceplate device might also include a wireless communication interface which can include without limitation a modem a network card an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or a chipset such as a Bluetooth device an IEEE 802.11 device an IEEE 802.15.4 device a Wi Fi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The wireless communication interface may permit data to be exchanged with a network wireless access points other computer systems and or any other electronic devices described herein e.g. the wristband monitoring device . The communication can be carried out via one or more wireless communication antenna s that send and or receive wireless signals . For example the wireless signals can be cellular network signals or a Bluetooth connection. In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may communicate with faceplate device via the wireless communication interface .

Depending on desired functionality the wireless communication interface can include separate transceivers to communicate with base transceiver stations e.g. base transceiver stations of a cellular network and access points. These different data networks can include an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA Code Divisional Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or other types of networks.

The faceplate device can further include sensor s . Such sensors can include without limitation one or more accelerometer s and or gyroscope s altimeter s microphone s pedometer s GPS s thermometer s and the like. At least a subset of the sensor s can provide readings used to provide wellness monitoring as described herein.

Embodiments of wristband monitoring device may also include a Satellite Positioning System SPS receiver capable of receiving signals from one or more SPS satellites using an SPS antenna . The SPS receiver can receive satellite data that can be transmitted to the GPS sensor . The satellite data can be information sufficient to allow the GPS sensor to determine a geographic location of the wristband monitoring device based on the satellite data. Such positioning can be utilized to complement and or incorporate the techniques described herein. It can be noted that as used herein an SPS may include any combination of one or more global and or regional navigation satellite systems and or augmentation systems and SPS signals may include SPS SPS like and or other signals associated with such one or more SPS.

The faceplate device may further include or be in communication with a memory . The memory is an example of a computer readable storage media. In at least one example computer readable storage media include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of computer storage media that may be included in the faceplate device may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the faceplate device . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable memory can further be used to store sensor data for any combination of sensors in data store . Additionally or alternatively memory may be used to store medical related data for the user.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory in at least one embodiment includes an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the perceived latency such as via the faceplate device or dedicated applications. In at least one example embodiment the faceplate device is configured to receive store and or display content and at least one interface for interacting with the service provider computers and users. Additionally the memory stores access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information includes information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. Additionally the user information includes information regarding a therapy associated with the user.

The memory of the faceplate device also can comprise software elements not shown device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more processes described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by the faceplate device and or processing unit s within a faceplate device and or stored on a non transitory and or machine readable storage medium e.g. a computer readable storage medium a machine readable storage medium etc. . In an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose processor or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

Faceplate device may include clock . Clock is used to generate a time stamp for each of the data observations generated by the sensors. The time stamps are used by the processing units in the analysis of sensor data and facilitate pattern recognition and improved capacity for determining the operational environment of the faceplate device and wristband monitoring device . The clock can also be used by the processing units for alarms and other standard clock functions.

The faceplate device includes a user interface . User interface may include a touchscreen a button or a keypad interface a vibration generator a sound generator and or other similar interface. The interface facilitates soliciting information from the wearer and obtaining input data and information provided by the wearer in response.

The faceplate device using user interface solicits information about the user or the user s condition or environment so as to analyze such data in order to provide the wellness monitoring features discussed herein. For example the faceplate device utilizes user inputs via user interface to obtain information about the user s physique lifestyle health activity level as well as information related to therapy compliance and other information relevant to ascertaining the user s overall wellness. The faceplate device further solicits any inputs that may facilitate improved learning analysis and sensing performed by the faceplate device the wristband monitoring device and or other suitable devices or computers e.g. service provider computers .

The faceplate device includes an energy source a means to charge said energy source and a means to charge an energy source located on wristband monitoring device indicated by power input outputs . The energy source may be a battery a capacitor or any other suitable means for storing chemical or electrical energy for later use. In at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may be connected to faceplate device and the battery of the faceplate device may charge the battery of wristband monitoring device .

In some embodiments wristband monitoring device may be connected to the faceplate device and the battery of faceplate device may be the energy source for the wristband monitoring device or vice versa. The faceplate device may be configured to charge from a standard A C adaptor or by use of a charging dock e.g. a charging cradle configured to house the faceplate device or other suitable charging means.

In some examples the wrist worn device is in communication with the service provider computers via the networks or via other network connections. Additionally the wrist worn device may be part of a distributed system managed by controlled by or otherwise part of the service provider computers . In some examples the networks include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks.

In at least one embodiment the wellness monitoring engine allows the user to interact with the service provider computers or medical provider device . The one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm host the wellness monitoring engine and or cloud based software services. Other server architectures may be used to host the wellness monitoring engine and or cloud based software services. The wellness monitoring engine is capable of handling requests from a user and serving in response various user interfaces that are rendered at the wrist worn device . The wellness monitoring engine provides any type of device or application control. The wellness monitoring engine and or corresponding control are provided by the operating system of the faceplate device . As discussed above the described techniques can similarly be implemented outside of the wellness monitoring engine such as with other applications running on the wrist worn device .

In some aspects the service provider computers and medical provider device are any type of computing devices such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a server computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. Additionally it should be noted that in some embodiments the service provider computers and or medical provider device are executed by one or more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment is also referred to as a cloud computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the service provider computers and medical provider device each include at least one memory e.g. the memory and the memory and one or more processing units e.g. processor s and processor s . The processor s and or the processor s are implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s and the processor s include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

In at least one example embodiment the memory and or the memory store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s or the processor s respectively as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of service provider computers or medical provider device the memory and or the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The service provider computers and or the medical provider device also include additional storage e.g. additional storage and additional storage which includes removable storage and or non removable storage. The memory the memory the additional storage the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. In at least one example computer readable storage media include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the service provider computers and or medical provider device may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the service provider computers and or medical provider device respectively. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the service provider computers and or medical provider device contain communications connection s e.g. and that allow the service provider computers and or medical provider device to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The service provider computers and or medical provider device also include I O device s and or I O device s respectively such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory e.g. the memory and or the memory in more detail each memory includes an operating system e.g. and one or more data stores e.g. and and or one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein. For example medical related data sensor data collected from wrist worn device and any suitable data utilized by wellness monitoring engine may be stored in data store and or data store .

In accordance with at least one embodiment a method is enabled for wellness monitoring using a wrist worn device e.g. wrist worn device . For example the wellness monitoring engine may be a component of the faceplate device wristband monitoring device or service provider computers as discussed above in connection with respectively. In at least one embodiment wellness monitoring engine is stored on faceplate device or alternatively is stored on a server accessible to the faceplate device via network .

An administrator e.g. a physician configures the wellness monitoring engine via a graphical user interface the wellness monitoring engine presented on medical provider device . Medical provider device may be any electronic device capable of receiving and transmitting electronic data e.g. a laptop a cellphone another wrist worn device . The configuration information can include but is not limited to medical related data. Once configuration information is entered via graphical user interface application programming interface a component of the wellness monitoring engine is utilized to receive the configuration information.

In accordance with at least one embodiment configuration manager a component of the wellness monitoring engine is configured to receive configuration information. The configuration manager is responsible for creating and maintaining a user profile utilized to store such configuration information including therapy or treatment information for the user. Further the configuration manager causes such configuration data to be stored in a user profile data store e.g. data store data store or data store . Additionally or alternatively configuration manager interacts with therapy data store a data store responsible for storing information regarding one or more therapies. In at least one example the configuration manager queries therapy data store for information regarding one or more therapies indicated in the received configuration information. Any information returned from therapy data store may be stored by the configuration manager in user profile data store along with or separate from the user profile.

In at least one embodiment scheduling manager is configured to receive configuration information from configuration manager including information pertaining to a prescribed therapy. The prescribed therapy may be associated with a specific therapy stored in the therapy data store . The scheduling manager is responsible for generating a regimen based on the prescribed therapy. The regimen indicates one or more notifications to be provided to the user at a specific day and or time. The regimen additionally indicates one or more particular times at which to transmit medical related information gathered or obtained by the wrist worn device to service provider computers . In at least one example scheduling manager according to the generated regimen causes notification engine to provide one or more electronic notifications on faceplate device . The notification may include but is not limited to a sensor reading request to take a dosage of medication or to conduct a form of exercise.

In at least one embodiment user input manager is configured to present questions to the user via faceplate device of wrist worn device . In at least one example scheduling manager determines one or more questions to be posed to the user at a particular time in accordance with the generated regimen. A regimen as used herein includes a schedule for one or more therapies that specifies various times in which to conduct various actions associated with the therapy. In the case where the regimen specifies that a question should be posed to the user scheduling manager causes user input manager to pose the determined question s to the user via faceplate device at the appropriate time. The user utilizes faceplate device to respond to the question s . Upon receipt of the response user input manager stores such response data in user profile data store e.g. data store or . Additionally user input manager causes scheduling manager to act upon the response in one or more ways based on the therapy implemented. In one example scheduling manager determining that it is time for the user to take a sensor reading causes notification engine to present a reminder to the user on faceplate device . The user input manager sends to the device a question such as are you ready to get your blood pressure taken The user responds affirmatively or negatively. Alternatively the user having had no question posed affirmatively initiates via faceplate device a sensor reading. Either or both user inputs are received by user input manager . Additionally such user input is stored in user profile data store and is forwarded to scheduling manager . Scheduling manager in response to such user input updates the regimen.

In at least one example scheduling manager causes user input manager to pose a question to the user via faceplate device . For instance scheduling manager determines that a question ought to be posed to the user at a particular time or because of a particular response. For instance the regimen may specify that the user be asked Are you feeling light headed an hour after the user has indicated that he took his medication. In such a case scheduling manager causes user input manager to present the question to the user via faceplate device . The user responds to the question via faceplate device and such response is received by user input manager stored in user profile data store e.g. data store or data store and or forwarded to scheduling manager . In at least one embodiment scheduling manager updates the regimen based on the response. For example the therapy may indicate that if the user responds that he does in fact feel light headed when asked e.g. an hour after taking his medication the regimen be altered in some way e.g. by increasing or decreasing the medication dosage . In at least one example the regimen is altered such that the user is immediately prompted to take an additional dosage. Furthermore the regimen is updated by the scheduling manager to reflect changes brought on by the received user input. The regimen may be stored on regimen data store or any suitable data store configured to store such information. Regimen data store may include as a component of wellness monitoring engine or as a data store remote to wellness monitoring engine .

In at least one embodiment a therapy may specify one or more times for which a sensor contained in the wrist worn device may be used to ascertain one or more patients vital signs. For instance a therapy specifies that the user s pulse and blood pressure should be taken once every hour. Such specifications are included in the regimen generated by scheduling manager . The therapy additionally or alternatively indicates certain chains of events that should result in activation of the sensor s . For instance a user is reminded to take his medication. He in fact takes the medication and responds to the reminder or a posed question indicating that he took his medication. Upon this input or some time later scheduling manager causes sensor manager a component of wellness monitoring engine to activate one or more sensors located on the wrist worn device . Sensor manager communicates with the one or more sensors to cause vital sign information to be collected. For instance in the ongoing example sensor manager causes a heart rate sensor to be activated. The sensor manager is configured to receive data from the heart rate sensor. The sensor manager further causes the heart rate information to be stored in user profile data store and or forwards the heart rate information to the scheduling manager for analysis. Sensor manager additionally or alternatively activates blood pressure sensor. The sensor manager is configured to receive data from the blood pressure sensor. The sensor manager causes the blood pressure sensor to be stored in user profiled data store and or forwards the blood pressure information to the scheduling manager . Scheduling manager as discussed above analyzes the heart rate information and or the blood pressure information to determine any regimen modification s necessary in accordance with the therapy. Though a heart rate sensor and a blood pressure sensor are used in this example it should be appreciated that any sensor or combination of sensors located on the wristband monitoring device or faceplate device may be utilized in any suitable order via a similar manner as described above.

Consider the case where the user s heart rate drops dangerously low or even stops. The sensor manager can receive such information and determine that the rate is in an unacceptable range as defined by the therapy. Upon such a determination the sensor manager can cause notification engine or any other suitable component of the wellness monitoring engine to access the user profile data store for user profile data. User profile data indicates physician contact information and or emergency contact information for example. If the user profile data includes such information the notification engine may cause a notification to be sent to the indicated physician emergency contact. In at least one example the notification includes an automated phone call email message text message or other suitable form of communication. Additionally or alternatively the notification engine can transmit data related to the adverse condition e.g. sensor data user profile data to an emergency response unit. In one example upon determining the existence of an adverse condition the sensor manager causes the GPS sensor to activate to ascertain the user s location. Any other sensor or combination of sensors included on the device may be similarly activated. Information collected by the sensor s is received by the sensor manager . The sensor manager can relay the information to notification engine . Notification engine may then report such information away from the device in a manner similar to that described above.

In at least one embodiment the user may activate a setting on the device to indicate an emergency status. For example the user may be aware that they are having a health issue and interact with a user interface e.g. user interface located on the faceplate device . The indication is received by the user input manager . User input manager is configured to access user profile data store to obtain user profile data in order to determine contact information similar to that described in the previous example. User input manager is configured to cause notification engine to notify the determined contacts and or emergency response unit s .

In at least one embodiment another user for example a physician or emergency medical personnel may access medical related data stored in memory of service provider computers or other information contained on and or recorded by wrist worn device . For example in an emergency situation another user can access medical allergy information of the user. Additionally or alternatively someone other than the user may access information recorded by the wrist worn device . As an example a physician can enable medical related data to be displayed on the faceplate device or a display of another device. The activation of such a setting is received by the user input manager . The user input manager accesses user profile data store to obtain medical related data for the user. The user input manager can then display such information on the faceplate device and or enable the physician to access such information at a remote location e.g. via a website presented on the medical provider device or other computing device .

In accordance with at least one embodiment scheduling manager determines based on the current regimen user input or sensor data that medical related data e.g. user input user responses vital sign information should be sent to a medical provider e.g. the prescribing physician . Additionally or alternatively scheduling manager receives input requesting the medical related data. In either case scheduling manager causes export manager to electronically transmit the medical related data to a particular location. In at least one example the medical related data is displayed e.g. via notification engine on a medical provider s device e.g. medical provider device .

In accordance with at least one embodiment wellness index engine a component of wellness monitoring engine is responsible for calculating a wellness index for the patient. The wellness index as described above is a numerical value that indicates an overall wellness value for the patient. The wellness index engine may be configured to receive or otherwise obtain at least one of sensor data therapy data regimen or user input from any combination of the modules discussed above. Therapy data may include information related to normal sensor data ranges e.g. a normal heart rate range normal glucose level . Such normal sensor data ranges may be based on age sex race or other suitable demographic information. Upon receipt or at a suitable time the wellness index engine may calculate a wellness index based on the sensor data therapy data regimen data and user input and store the calculated value in user profile data store . The wellness index may be calculated using various weights for the sensor data therapy data regimen and user input or each may be weighed the same for purposes of the calculation. In at least one example wellness index engine may interact with user profile data store to retrieve information regarding medical related data of other users. For example the wellness index engine may take into account other users blood pressure readings for example when determining how much weight to give the user s blood pressure reading. Wellness index engine may take into account all other users or a subset of the other users. For example wellness index engine may compare the user s blood pressure readings to other user s under the same proscribed therapy while ignoring medical related data of users that are not under the same prescribed therapy.

Wellness index engine may be configured to cause export manager to transmit the wellness index to wrist worn device the medical provider device service provider computers or any suitable electronic device located away from wellness monitoring engine .

In at least one embodiment display engine a component of wellness monitoring engine may be configured to interact with map data store in order to display a map of a geographical location e.g. a hospital ward floor plan assisted living home floor plan a region map a state map . In at least one example the display engine may cause a floor plan of a hospital ward to be displayed for example on medical provider device with in some cases at least one graphical element e.g. a colored dot superimposed over the floor plan indicating a location and wellness index generated by a wrist worn device e.g. a wrist worn device worn by a patient of the hospital .

In at least one embodiment power management engine a component of wellness monitoring engine may be configured to monitor power consumption of faceplate device and power consumption of wristband monitoring device . For example power management engine may interact with display engine to cause power levels of the faceplate device and wristband monitoring device to be displayed e.g. on faceplate device . In some cases the power levels displayed may be provided on the faceplate device as a graphical element e.g. a battery icon for each the faceplate device and the wristband monitoring device . In some examples the power level for wristband monitoring device may be provided via lights located on wristband monitoring device . Such lights or even the wristband itself may flash and or change color depending on the power level remaining for the wristband monitoring device .

In accordance with at least one embodiment power management engine may receive indication that the faceplate device has been detached from wristband monitoring device . Upon receiving such an indication power management engine may track power usage of wristband monitoring device . Depending on the regimen and the power level remaining for the wristband monitoring device power management engine may interact with scheduling manager to cause updates to the regimen. For example power management engine may cause sensor readings to be taken less frequently than a frequency at which sensor readings would have been taken if the wristband monitoring device was attached to the faceplate device or alternatively if the wristband monitoring device was operating at full power strength.

In accordance with at least one embodiment power management engine may interact with notification engine to cause audible alerts to sound on either or both the faceplate device or wristband monitoring device . For example power management engine may determine that faceplate device has a remaining power level under a threshold amount e.g. 10 percent or less of total power available . Based on the determination power management engine may interact with notification to sound an audible alarm on the faceplate device . Similarly may determine that wristband monitoring device has a remaining power level under a threshold amount e.g. 10 percent or less of total power available . The threshold amount may be the same or different than the threshold amount used in the previous example. Based on the determination power management engine may interact with notification to sound an audible alarm on the wristband monitoring device . The sound of the alarm on wristband monitoring device may be the same or different than the sound of the alarm on faceplate device .

In accordance with at least one embodiment power management engine may track the power usage of either or both the power source s located on faceplate device or wristband monitoring device . Such tracked information may be communicated to export manager in order to transmit such information away from the wrist worn device e.g. to a remote server configured to analyze such information . Additionally or alternatively export manager may store tracked power source usage history in user profile data store associated with the user s profile.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may decide to detach the faceplate device from the wristband monitoring device . For example the faceplate device may be detached in order to charge the faceplate device using charging dock . Although a charging dock is depicted any suitable form of charging may be substituted. For example while the faceplate device may be charged via a charging dock the wristband monitoring device may be charged utilizing a form of wireless charging e.g. inductive charging using magnetic or acoustic methods . In another example both the faceplate device and the wristband monitoring device may be charged using an inductive charger. The wristband monitoring device may include one or more sensors with which to monitor a patient s vital signs e.g. using sensors . The wristband monitoring device may continue monitoring vital signs while the faceplate device is detached and charging. While detached the wristband monitoring device may operate using for example battery power. Battery power levels and or sensor activity may be indicated by LED lights located on the wristband monitoring device or any suitable visual or audible means of indication. In at least one example low battery power may cause LED lights to flash red while a sensor reading may cause the LED lights to flash blue.

In accordance with at least one embodiment wristband monitoring device may wirelessly transmit sensor readings to faceplate device . Such transmission may be accomplished using Bluetooth or any suitable means for wireless transmission. While detached faceplate device may continue to transmit vital sign information away from the wrist worn device . Alternatively or additionally faceplate device may transmit medical related data away from wrist worn device . While attached or detached faceplate device may display power levels of wristband monitoring device for example using user interface . Such display may include a battery icon indicating the remaining power levels of wristband monitoring device . While charging otherwise faceplate device may display power levels of the faceplate device for example using user interface . Such display may include a battery icon indicating the remaining power levels of faceplate device .

At a regimen for the user is determined based on the therapy. For instance the regimen is determined by the scheduling manager of in the manner described above. Alternatively the regimen is determined by retrieving a previously store regimen from therapy data store of . As described above the regimen specifies at least one situation for which at least one event associated with a therapy should be performed. For instance a regimen indicates that an event e.g. sensor data collection should occur at pre determined periodic times. In at least one example the regimen indicates that an event e.g. a blood pressure sensor reading ought to occur in response to a particular received input e.g. indication that the patient wishes to take his blood pressure . A variety of situations exist and would depend on the therapy being implemented.

At a sensor e.g. one or more of sensors may be activated on the wristband monitoring device . For example blood pressure monitor sensor may be activated. The blood pressure monitor sensor may be activated based on the determined regimen from . In cases where the faceplate device is detached from the wristband monitoring device . The sensor activation may further depend on a power level remaining on the wristband monitoring device . For example a regimen may specify that a blood pressure reading should be taken once every four hours. If the wristband monitoring device is operating at approximately full power e.g. 90 or above of total power capacity then the readings may continue to occur every four hours. At some point the power level remaining on the wristband monitoring device may drop below a threshold amount e.g. 60 of total power capacity . At such time power management engine may cause an update to the regimen that causes blood pressure readings to be taken less frequently e.g. every 5 hours in order to conserve power on the wristband monitoring device .

At vital sign information of the user may be received by faceplate device from wristband monitoring device . In at least one example wristband monitoring device may transmit wirelessly or otherwise vital sign information to faceplate device . For instance wristband monitoring device may transmit vital sign information over Bluetooth to faceplate device .

At wristband monitoring device may be caused to operate on battery power e.g. as a result of faceplate device being detached . At such time wristband monitoring device may display status related to the power level of wristband monitoring device on wristband monitoring device . As depicted in the status may be displayed by LED light located on the wrist band of the wristband monitoring device . Additionally or alternatively the wristband itself may change color in order to display the status related to the power level of the wristband monitoring device .

At a battery on the wristband monitoring device may be charged. For example when it is determined that the faceplate device is attached to the wristband monitoring device power management engine may cause a power source of wristband monitoring to be charged from a power source located on faceplate device .

At faceplate device may wirelessly report the vital sign information away from the wrist worn device . Alternatively or additionally medical related data may be wirelessly reported away from the faceplate device . In at least one example the medical related data is reported to service provider computers and or medical provider device . Alternatively the information may be sent wirelessly to a physician via email.

At in response to the determination from the wristband monitoring device may be caused to operate from an alternative power source e.g. from battery power . For example power management engine may cause the wristband monitoring device to begin operating under battery power.

At a sensor e.g. blood pressure sensor s on the wristband monitoring device may be activated to collect vital sign information of the user. The activation may be based on a regimen as described above. The activation may occur during a time when the faceplate device is detached from the wristband monitoring device .

At vital sign information e.g. blood pressure sensor readings may be wirelessly transmitted from the wristband monitoring device. At the faceplate device may receive the vital sign information of the user. In some cases the vital sign information may be received by the faceplate device from the wristband monitoring device via a Bluetooth connection.

At the vital sign information may be wirelessly transmitted away from the wrist worn device e.g. using export manager . For example faceplate device may transmit such data to service provider computers .

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodied instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

