---

title: Magnetoelectric energy harvesting
abstract: An energy harvesting device for harvesting energy from a moving structure includes a housing allowing transmission of magnetic fields therethrough. A piezoelectric material capable of a phase transition and a magnetostrictive material capable of a structural change when subjected to a magnetic field are mechanically coupled to each other in the housing. An adjustable pre-stress means is positioned between the housing and the combination of the piezoelectric and magnetostrictive materials. Electrical contacts are positioned on the piezoelectric material. A magnet is mounted on the moving structure. The housing is mounted in sufficient proximity to the magnet for the magnetic field of the magnet to induce the structural change in the magnetostrictive material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09490728&OS=09490728&RS=09490728
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09490728
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141120
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to an electro mechanical energy harvesting device and more particularly relates to such a device that has a magnetostrictive and piezoelectric component.

It is known that ferroelectric single crystals convert mechanical energy to electrical energy or vice versa. This makes them a candidate as the active material in energy harvesting devices. By utilizing the direct piezoelectric or pyroelectric effect when mechanical or thermal energy is available from the environment the mechanical or thermal energy can be converted to electric charge polarization in relaxor ferroelectric single crystal material and useful amounts of energy can be obtained.

Relaxor single crystals display both a linear piezoelectric effect and a non linear electromechanically coupled phase transition. The linear piezoelectric effect in relaxor single crystals has been well characterized and is extraordinarly large approximately a factor of six times that of the ceramic lead zirconate titanate PZT . The non linear electromechanically coupled phase transition associated with field and stress driven phase transformations has been the subject of extensive study especially for lead indium niobate lead magnesium niobate lead titanate PIN PMN PT ternaries. Reversible stress and temperature induced phase transformations are associated with spontaneous charge generation in the relaxor single crystals. is a graph showing strain versus stress for a representative phase change piezoelectric material. clearly shows a large strain jump at the stress and field induced phase transformation. These stress and field driven phase transformations offer significant new approaches to energy harvesting. These results demonstrate that phase transformations can provide more than an order of magnitude increase in energy density per cycle for mechanical energy harvesting. Utilizing this phase transformation behavior suggests that a stress biased energy harvester would take maximum advantage of the phase transformation in the relaxor single crystal material.

Magnetostrictive materials are similar to ferroelectric materials because they convert magnetic energy into mechanical energy. However magnetostrictive materials utilize a magnetic field rather than an electrical field. An applied magnetic field can alter the direction of the magnetic moments inside the material and the magnetic moments will tend to align themselves in the direction of the applied magnetic field. This directional change of the magnetic moments is coupled to the material s lattice via spin orbit coupling and results in a physical change in the dimension of the material. It is known to utilize this physical change in mechanical applications and control systems.

It is known to use piezoelectric materials to harvest energy. Piezoelectric materials will generate electric potential when subjected to some kind of mechanical stress. However piezoelectric materials have constraints on their ability to function properly such as temperature force and pressure. These constraints along with the difficulty of attaching piezoelectric materials to rotating or moving machinery make it difficult to locate piezoelectric material devices in contact with the mechanical stress generator which allows the piezoelectric material to act as an energy harvesting device.

It is also known to use magnetostrictive materials to harvest energy. Magnetostrictive materials are able to harvest vibrational energy from vibrating pumps motors buildings ships etc. since magnetostrictive materials are able to change shape in response to a magnetic field and it is known to use these changes in magnetic state to induce a voltage in coils which can then be converted into power.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an energy harvesting device for a changing magnetic field.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an energy harvesting device having maximum efficiency.

Accordingly there is provided an energy harvesting device for harvesting energy from a moving structure. The device has a rigid hollow housing capable of allowing the transmission of a magnetic field therethrough. A piezoelectric material is positioned in the hollow housing. A magnetostrictive material capable of a structural change when being subjected to a magnetic field is also positioned in the housing mechanically coupled to the piezoelectric material. An adjustable pre stress means is positioned between the housing and the piezoelectric material and magnetostrictive material combination to apply a pre stress to the piezoelectric material and the magnetostrictive material. Electrical contacts are joined in contact with the piezoelectric material. A magnet mounted on the moving structure induces the structural change in the magnetostrictive material when the magnet is nearest the housing. The structural change stresses the piezoelectric material which generates electrical potential at the contacts.

For a given material the position of this curve and its inflection points depend on pressure temperature and the electrical field to which the material is subjected. In one known material this compressive pre stress occurs in the region between about 24 MPa and 21 MPa as indicated in the FIG. The resulting microstrain is between 2 500 and 4 500 as shown in the FIG. The critical stress is a characteristic of the particular material composition and it can be determined experimentally for a given temperature and operating condition.

Energy harvesting device is mounted in proximity to a machine . Machine vibrates in direction . Magnet is attached to machine preferably such that the entirety of a magnetostrictive material discussed hereinafter is in the magnetic field. A lesser response will result if the entirety of the magnetostrictive material is not in the magnetic field. Magnet preferably being capable of generating a changing magnetic field of about at least 50 Oe on the magnetostrictive material as it vibrates on machine .

In operation magnet joined to machine provides a time varying magnetic field on the magnetostrictive material to actuate the piezoelectric material as a harvester. As the magnetostrictive rod is activated by external magnetic field it expands linearly. Because the magnetostrictive rod is constrained by cap and bolt rod causes compressive stress that is transmitted to piezoelectric material. Piezoelectric material and magnetostrictive rod have been subjected to a preload stress close to the critical stress required for ferroelectric phase transition. Compressive stress from the rod loads the piezoelectric material with additional force needed to bring the piezoelectric material through the phase transformation from that point this is equivalent to mechanical energy harvesting process . Preload stress on the magnetostrictive material optimizes the slope of the magnetostriction versus field curve.

Compression bolt is adjusted to place the piezoelectric material near the phase boundary. This can also be done electrically. If necessary a magnetic bias field can be applied to the magnetostrictive material to move piezoelectric material closer to the phase transition. The oscillating magnetic field created by magnet and vibrating machine causes magnetostrictive material to expand and contract. If the resulting stress on piezoelectric material is sufficient to cause a phase transition ex. orthorhombic phase and rhombohedral phase large amounts of energy can be generated. Direction of vibration can be longitudinal lateral and or axial depending on the polarization orientation of piezoelectric material and the design constraints of energy harvesting device .

The changing magnetic field created by magnet and vibrating machine causes a rearrangement of dipoles in magnetostrictive material which causes magnetostrictive material to change shape. This change in shape applies a stress on piezoelectric material which causes a phase transformation in piezoelectric material . This phase transformation causes piezoelectric material to generate energy which can then flow into wires . The energy can then flow to circuitry which can preferably do the signal conditioning. Circuitry can be a load a battery or most likely conditioning circuitry which then is connected to a battery.

Energy harvesting device is mounted in proximity to a machine . Machine rotates in direction . Magnet is attached to machine preferably such that the entirety of a magnetostrictive material discussed hereinafter is in the magnetic field. A lesser response will result if the entirety of the magnetostrictive material is not in the magnetic field. Magnet preferably being capable of generating a changing magnetic field of about at least 50 Oe on the magnetostrictive material as it rotates on machine .

In operation magnet joined to machine provides a time varying magnetic field to actuate the piezoelectric material as a harvester. As the magnetostrictive rod is activated by external magnetic field it expands linearly. Because the magnetostrictive rod is constrained by cap and bolt rod causes compressive stress that is transmitted to piezoelectric material. Piezoelectric material and magnetostrictive rod have been subjected to a preload stress close to the critical stress required for ferroelectric phase transition. Compressive stress from the magnetostrictive rod loads the piezoelectric material with additional force needed to bring the piezoelectric material through the phase transformation from that point this is equivalent to mechanical energy harvesting process .

Compression bolt is adjusted to place the piezoelectric material near the phase boundary. This can also be done electrically. If necessary a magnetic bias field can be applied to the magnetostrictive material to move piezoelectric material closer to the phase transition. The oscillating magnetic field created by magnet and vibrating machine causes magnetostrictive material to expand and contract. If the resulting stress on piezoelectric material is sufficient to cause a phase transition ex. orthorhombic phase and rhombohedral phase large amounts of energy can be generated. Direction of vibration can be longitudinal lateral and or axial depending on the polarization orientation of piezoelectric material and the design constraints of energy harvesting device .

The changing magnetic field created by magnet and vibrating machine causes a rearrangement of dipoles in magnetostrictive material which causes magnetostrictive material to change shape. This change in shape applies a stress on piezoelectric material which causes a phase transformation in piezoelectric material . This phase transformation causes piezoelectric material to generate energy which can then flow into wires . The energy can then flow to circuitry which can preferably do the signal conditioning. Circuitry can be a load a battery or most likely conditioning circuitry which then is connected to a battery.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

