---

title: Method and system for in-game visualization based on audio analysis
abstract: A game headset receives a plurality of channels of game and/or chat audio during game play, monitors the plurality of channels, and detect one or more sounds on the channels during the monitoring. The game headset determines characteristics of the detected one or more sound and outputs one or more signals for generating a visual representation of the detected one or more sounds based on the determined characteristics. The game headset output the signals to a game console that provides the game play. The game console displays the visual representation during the game play based on the communicated visualization information. The one or more signals is a video stream of an in-game visualization. The game headset outputs the one or more signals to a second screen communication device that generates the visual representation during the game play based on the signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338541&OS=09338541&RS=09338541
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 09338541
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140731
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. provisional patent application 61 888 710 titled Method and System for In Game Visualization Based on Audio Analysis which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Aspects of the present application relate to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for in game visualization based on audio analysis.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing for gaming will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for in game visualization based on audio analysis substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may be found in a method and system for in game visualization based on audio analysis. In various embodiments of the invention a game headset receives a plurality of channels of game and or chat audio during game play. The game headset monitors the plurality of channels and detects one or more sounds on the channels during the monitoring. The game headset determines characteristics of the detected one or more sound and outputs one or more signals for generating a visual representation of the detected one or more sounds based on the determined characteristics. The game headset output the signals to a game console that provides the game play. The game console displays the visual representation during the game play based on the communicated visualization information. The one or more signals may comprise a video stream of an in game visualization. The game headset outputs the one or more signals to a second screen communication device that generates the visual representation during the game play based on the signals. The determining of the characteristics of the detected one or more sounds may comprise determining one or more of changes in which of the plurality of channels are carrying the detected one or more sounds changes in intensity or loudness of the detected one or more sound and changes in frequency of occurrence of the detected one or more sounds. The characteristics may comprise one or more of intensity or loudness of the detected one or more sounds which of the plurality of channels are carrying the detected one or more sounds and frequency of occurrence of the detected one or more sounds. The game headset may perform signal analysis on the plurality of channels of game and or chat audio during the game play in order to determine the characteristics of the one or more sounds. The visual representation of the detected one or more sounds comprises a graphical representation of a location of the detected one or more sounds and a graphical representation of one or more of the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds. The graphical representation of one or more of the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds comprises one or more of a static representation an animated representation and a dynamic representation.

The game console may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to present a game to and also enable game play interaction between one or more local players and or one or more remote players. The game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a radio network interface video interface audio interface controller hub main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various buses links and .

The controller hub comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment II III or variants thereof SATA II SATA III embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCle or the like. The controller hub may also be referred to as an input output I O controller hub. Exemplary controller hubs may comprise Southbridge Haswell Fusion and Sandybridge. The controller hub may be operable to receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA II SATA III and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA II III and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The controller hub exchanges data with the radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCle .

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards near field communication NFC and or the like.

The network interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCle and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant audio data via the link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the audio subsystem via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory which stores parameter settings to affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may provide high speed memory functions for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The cache memory may typically comprise DRAM or variants thereof. The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to the user interface device the user interface device the network the monitor and the audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like.

The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth NFC and or the like . The user interface device may be operable to communicate with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuit. The game console sends audio to the audio subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . Additional details of an example audio subsystem are described below.

The monitor and the user interface device are as described above. The headset is as described below with reference to . The audio basestation is as described below with reference to for example .

The multi purpose device may comprise for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like and that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. An example multi purpose device is described below with reference to . Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface GUI which may enable a user to access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings and so on. The graphical user interface may enable a user to interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance the user s gaming experience.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links and or hops among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one of more devices of the GPN .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to convert acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The speakers and may comprise circuitry that may be operable to convert electrical signals to sound waves.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuit of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuit of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct NFC or the like with another computing device and or the like. Some of the user controls may adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular game that is being played. Some of the user controls may also adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular player that is engage in the game play. The connector may be for example a USB thunderbolt Firewire or other type of port or interface. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards NFC the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The CPU may also be operable to handle in game visualization processing for the headset based on for example analysis of game and or chat audio received from the console during game play. The CPU may also be operable to handle in game visualization processing for the headset based on for example information in game and or chat audio that is present specifically for the purpose of generating in game visualization rather than for the purpose of presentation to a listener. For example information in the game and or chat audio may indicate a game being played such that a corresponding visualization may be generated a type of visualization to be generated e.g. whether to display a map or a radar image the content of the visualization e.g. which characters and or things to display on a map or radar image how frequently the visualization should be updated whether audio alerts should accompany the visualization and or the like. In this regard the CPU may be operable to dynamically handle processing of in game visualizations for the headset based on information that may be received from the audio processing circuit and or information that may be stored in the storage device or an external storage device.

The storage device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory which may be operable to store data comprising operating data configuration data settings and so on which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuit . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuit e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Game headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The storage device may also be operable to store audio information resulting from analysis of the plurality of audio channels of game and or chat audio during game play. In one embodiment of the disclosure the headset may be operable to download the audio information for a particular game from a sounds database in an external storage device and store the downloaded audio information in the storage device . The external storage device may be located at a remote server e.g. database in or may be an external memory device for example. In this regard the CPU may be operable to configure the radio to download the audio information for the particular game. The audio information may comprise sounds and or corresponding voice commands for the particular game which may be utilized to provide in game visualizations. Upon subsequent playback of that particular game the headset does not need to download the audio information for that particular game from the sounds database but may instead acquire the audio information for that particular game from the storage device . The CPU may be operable to ensure that any updates to the sounds database may be downloaded from the sounds database and saved in the storage device to ensure that the audio information and sounds for the particular game is kept up to date.

In another embodiment of the disclosure the CPU may be operable to configure the audio processing circuit to perform signal analysis on the audio signals on one or more of the plurality of audio channels that are received via the connector and or the radio . The CPU may be enabled to control the operation of the audio processing circuit in order to store the results of the audio analysis along with for example an identifier of the game in the storage device . The CPU may be enabled to monitor the plurality of audio channels that are received via the connector and detect the characteristics of one or more sounds. Based on the detected sounds the CPU may be operable to generate a visual representation of the detected sounds and or their corresponding characteristics an in game visualization . The CPU may be operable to extract the one or more voice commands that correspond to the detected sounds from the internal storage device

In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure audio information for a particular game may be stored in a lookup table LUT in the storage device . In this regard the LUT may comprise an identity of the game audio information corresponding to a detected sound and a corresponding visual representation may be mapped to the detected sounds. In instances when a sound is detected on a monitored channel the CPU may compare the detected sound to that audio information that is stored in the storage device . If the comparison results in a match between the detected sound and the stored audio information the corresponding visual representation may be determined from the LUT and output for display.

In an example implementation the console supports overlaying an in game visualization on the screen on which the game itself is being played or on a second screen connected to the console. In such an implementation the visual representation may be output to the console .

In an example implementation the headset may generate the video stream corresponding to the in game visualization and output the video to the device i.e. treating the device as a simple monitor .

In an example implementation the headset may work in concert with the device to generate the in game visualization. In such an implementation for example the headset may send data resulting from analysis of game and or chat audio to the device e.g. via an API of an in gram visualization app running on the device and the device may use that data to generate the video stream corresponding to the in game visualization.

In some embodiments of the disclosure the basestation may be operable to provide connectivity between the headset the console and the user interface devices which may comprise a game controller and the second screen communication device. In this regard the basestation may be operable to handle communication of the visual representation to the second screen communication device and or to the console .

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data and so on. In this regard the memory may comprise information and or data that may be utilized to control operation of the audio processing circuit to perform signal analysis on the analysis of a plurality of received audio channels of game and or chat audio in order to detect the characteristics of one or more sounds in the game and or chat audio.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing performed by the audio processing circuit may also be determined based on default settings player preference and or by adaptive and or dynamic changes to the game play environment. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

The audio processing circuit may be operable to perform signal analysis on received audio signals that carry a plurality of audio channels. In this regard the audio processing circuit may be operable to analyze the audio on each of the plurality of received audio channels in order to detect the characteristics of sounds corresponding to the audio signals. In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure the audio processing circuit may be operable to analyze the audio on each of the plurality of received audio channels in order to detect a unique signature that may be associated with a certain sound. In another exemplary embodiment of the disclosure the audio processing circuit may be operable to analyze the audio on each of the plurality of received audio channels in order to detect a unique signature that may be associated with a certain sound and to detect the intensity or loudness of that sound. In another exemplary embodiment of the disclosure the audio processing circuit may be operable to analyze the audio on each of the plurality of received audio channels in order to detect a unique signature that may be associated with a certain sound the intensity or loudness of the sound and the direction in which the detected sound may be moving. Based on the signal analysis by the audio processing circuit the CPU may determine how the detected sound and or the corresponding characteristics are to be represented visually. In this regard the CPU may compare the detected sound and or characteristics to that audio information that is stored in the storage device . If the comparison results in a match between the detected sound and the stored audio information the CPU may utilized the corresponding information to provide a visual representation of the detected sound.

In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure the audio processing circuit may be operable to detect sounds in the game and or chat audio whose purpose is to provide a visual representation of the detected sounds and or the characteristics of the detected sounds as opposed to sounds whose purpose is to be heard by a listener . In this regard whenever the audio processing circuit detects a particular such sound the audio processing circuit may notify the CPU that the particular embedded sound has been detected. The CPU may then determine the corresponding visual representation from the information stored in the LUT and cause display of the corresponding visualization on a screen. In some instances the CPU may communicate information representative of the visual representation to the console and the console which may in turn cause the visual representation to be communicated to a monitor. In some embodiments of the disclosure the console may cause the visual representation to be communicated to a monitor and overlaid on the game play. A sound having a specific purpose of providing a visual representation may be for example a tone or sequence of tones near an extreme of the audio band such that they are nearly or entirely imperceptible by the listener. The sounds may be part of the game s audio track e.g. put there by the game makers designers inserted by the console as it is processing the game and or chat audio for output to the headset inserted by a server hosting the multi player chat inserted by the headset of another player as it processes microphone audio for output to a corresponding console and or inserted by the console of another player as it is processing microphone audio for output to the chat server.

The audio connectors and may comprise digital audio in and digital audio out e.g. S PDIF connectors respectively. The audio connectors and may comprise a left line in and a right line in connector respectively. The controls may comprise for example a power button a button for enabling disabling virtual surround sound a button for adjusting the perceived angles of the speakers when the virtual surround sound is enabled and a dial for controlling a volume gain of the audio received via the line in connectors and . The status indicators may indicate for example whether the audio basestation is powered on whether audio data is being received by the basestation via connectors and or what type of audio data e.g. Dolby Digital is being received by the basestation .

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards NFC and or the like and or proprietary e.g. proprietary protocol for receiving audio protocols for receiving audio from a console such as the console wireless protocols.

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for transmitting audio to the headphones .

The CPU comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the audio basestation . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the audio basestation and or part of one or more software applications running on the audio basestation . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuit . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the basestation . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuit e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Game headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the basestation in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game and or chat audio signals that are subsequently output to a device e.g. headset in communication with the basestation . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on a microphone audio signal that is subsequently output to a device e.g. console in communication with the basestation .

The application processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the multi purpose device as well as graphics processing functions of the multi purpose device . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The memory subsystem comprises volatile memory for storing runtime data nonvolatile memory for mass storage and long term storage and or a memory controller which controls reads writes to memory.

The cellular GPS networking subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The sensors comprise for example a camera a gyroscope an accelerometer a biometric sensor and or the like.

The power management subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage distribution of power among the various components of the multi purpose device .

The LAN subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The bus adaptor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable for interfacing one or more internal data busses of the multi purpose device with an external bus e.g. a Universal Serial Bus for transferring data to from the multi purpose device via a wired connection.

The user interface subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control and relay signals to from a touchscreen hard buttons and or other input devices of the multi purpose device .

The audio processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process e.g. digital to analog conversion analog to digital conversion compression decompression encryption decryption resampling etc. audio signals. The audio processor may be operable to receive and or output signals via a connector such as a 3.5 mm stereo and microphone connector.

The game console may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to present a game to and also enable game play interaction between one or more local players and or one or more remote players. The game console may be substantially similar to the game console which is shown and described with respect to . The game console may be operable to generate output video signals for a game over a video channel and output corresponding audio signals for the game over one or more of a plurality of audio channels. Exemplary audio channels may comprise a center CTR channel a front right FR channel a front left FL channel a rear right RR channel a rear left RL channel a side right SR channel and a side left SL channel. The audio and video generated from the game console during game play may be communicated to the monitor to be displayed by the monitor . In some embodiments of the disclosure the video output by the game console may include an in game visualization overlaid on the game video. In some embodiments of the disclosure the portion of the video corresponding to the overlaid in game visualization may have been received from the headset . In some embodiments of the disclosure the console may generate video for the in game visualization and communicate the video to the second screen communication device . In some embodiments of the disclosure the basestation may be operable to provide connectivity between the headset the game console and the second screen communication device . In this regard the basestation may be operable to handle communication of the visual information to the second screen communication device and or to the console .

The monitor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to display corresponding audio and video that may be received from the game console for the game during game play. The monitor may comprise a television TV computer monitor laptop display and so on.

The headset may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive the plurality of audio channels of game and or chat audio. The headset may be substantially similar to the headset which is shown and described with respect to . The headset may be operable to monitor and analyze the plurality of audio channels in order to detect characteristics of the sounds on the monitored audio channels and provide in game visualization based on the analysis of the audio signals.

The external storage device may comprise one or more suitable devices having suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store audio information for a game. The audio information may be stored in for example the sounds database . The audio information may be utilized to provide in game visualization based on the analysis of the game and or chat audio. The stored audio information in the sounds database may be transferred from the external storage device to the sounds database in the internal storage device

The audio processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to monitor the plurality of audio channels of the game and or chat audio. The audio processor may be substantially similar to the audio processing circuit which is shown and described with respect to . The audio processor may be operable to utilize signal analysis to detect the characteristics of sounds in the monitored plurality of audio channels. In instances when the audio processor detects certain sounds the audio processor may be operable to cause the visualization engine to 1 display a visual representation of the detected sounds and or their corresponding characteristics on the second screen communication device and or 2 cause information representative of visual representation of the detected sounds to communicated from the headset to the game console and or the device for display.

The internal storage device may comprise one or more suitable devices that may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store audio information for a game. The internal storage device may be substantially similar to the storage device which is shown and described with respect to . The audio information may be stored in for example the sounds database . Audio information for a particular game may be downloaded from the sounds database which is in the external storage device by the headset via for example a wireless connection. The downloaded audio information may be stored in the sounds database which is in the internal storage device . Audio information may be retrieved from the internal storage device when a game is initiated.

The CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling managing and or coordinating the overall operation of the headset . In this regard the CPU may be operable to control manage and coordinate operation of the components in the headset which comprises the audio processor the internal storage device the visualization engine the radio and the sounds database . The CPU may also be operable to coordinate and manage operations between the headset the game console and the external storage device . The CPU may also be operable to coordinate and manage operations for the sounds database and the sounds database . The CPU may be substantially similar to the CPU which is shown and described with respect to for example .

The visualization engine may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to determine what type of visualization information corresponding to a particular sound which is detected within the monitored channels by the audio processor should be utilized for an in game visualization. The CPU and or the visualization engine may be operable to compare the results of the signal analysis by the audio processor with audio and visualization information stored in the sounds database in order to determine the visualizations i.e. images graphics video clips and or the like that are to be utilized for the particular sound. In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure the CPU and or the visualization engine may be operable to utilize the determined characteristics of the detected sound to extract the visualization information from the sounds database which specifies the visualization that is to be utilized for the particular sound.

In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure in instances when the audio processor detects sounds whose characteristics indicate that the audio is increasing in the SR channel and or RR channel the visualization engine may be operable to generate a visual representation of sounds approaching the player s character from both the left and the right directions. When the audio that is increasing in the SR channel and or RR channel is initially detected it may be represented visually with a first color. As the audio continues to increase in the SR channel and or RR channel the location and or color of the visual representation may change to attract attention. As the characteristics of the detected sound continue to change based on the results of the audio analysis the CPU and or the visualization engine may be operable to dynamically and or adaptively update the visual representation of the detected sound. In some exemplary embodiments of the disclosure the visual representation may change from a static visual representation to an animated visual representation. For example the visual representation may start flashing get bigger get brighter have a different color have a different shape and or start moving if it was previously static. Additionally an audio command or an audio prompt may also be provided that notifies the listener by stating Look to the right . In this regard the audio processor and or the CPU may be operable to generate the audio command or audio prompt.

In another exemplary embodiment of the disclosure in instances when the audio processor detects sounds whose characteristics indicate that the audio is increasing in both the RR channel and the RL channel the visualization engine may be operable to generate a visual representation of sounds approaching the player s character from the rear of the listener. When the audio that is increasing in the SR channel and or RR channel is initially detected it may be represented visually with a first color. As the audio continues to increase in both the RR channel and the RL channel the location and or color of the visual representation may change to attract attention. As the characteristics of the detected sound continues to change based in the results of the audio analysis the CPU and or the visualization engine may be operable to dynamically and or adaptively update the visual representation of the detected sound. In some exemplary embodiments of the disclosure the visual representation may change from a static visual representation to an animated visual representation. For example the visual representation may start flashing get bigger get brighter have a different color have a different shape and or start moving if it was previously static. Additionally an audio command or an audio prompt may also be provided that notifies the listener by stating He s behind you . In this regard the audio processor and or the CPU may be operable to generate the audio command or audio prompt.

In some embodiments of the disclosure the CPU may be operable to cause the visualization engine to provide a particular visualization in instances when the audio processor detects an embedded sound on a monitored channel. The particular visualization may occur in response to detection of particular sounds that may be part of the audio track and is intended to be heard by the listener. In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure in instances when the audio processor is monitoring the plurality of audio channels and detects a particular sound corresponding to a red lining engine during game play the CPU and or the visualization engine may be operable to cause generation of a pop up or other textual representation that notifies the listener by stating Shift as well as providing an audio command or audio prompt that states Shift .

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate signals between the headset and the game console and or between the headset and the second screen communication device . The radio may be substantially similar to the radio which is described with respect to and shown in . In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure the headset may be operable to utilize the radio to communicate visualization information from the visualization engine to the second screen communication device via the communication link and or to the game console via the communication link . The second screen communication device may be operable to present the visualization of the detected sounds based on the visualization information received from the headset . The game console may be operable to cause the visualization of the detected sounds to be presented on the second screen communication device and or on the monitor based on the received visualization information.

The second screen communication device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide a visual representation of one or more sounds that are detected by the audio processor . In this regard the second screen communication device may be operable to communicate with the headset via the communication link in order to receive visualization information to present the visualization of the detected sounds. The second screen communication device may be substantially similar to device for example and may comprise a smartphone a tablet a monitor or the like.

The application app may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may enable the second screen communication device to receive visualization information from the headset . In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure the visualization engine may be operable to communicate with the app which is running on the second screen communication device in order to acquire visualization information for sounds that are detected by the audio processor during game play. The app may be operable to receive the visualization information from the visualization engine and cause the corresponding visualization of the detected sounds to be rendered on the screen . The app may be operable to dynamically receive updated information for detected sounds from the visualization engine and accordingly update the corresponding visualization on the screen

In operation the audio processing circuit may be operable to monitor the audio signals that are received via the plurality of received audio channels from the game console . In this regard the audio processor may be operable to perform signal analysis of the audio signals on each of the plurality of received audio channels to detect the characteristics of sounds corresponding to the audio signals. Based on the signal analysis by the audio processing circuit the CPU may be operable to detect sounds on one or more of the plurality of received audio channels carrying game and or chat audio. The visualization engine may be operable to determine the visualization that is to be provided for the detected sound based on information in the sounds database . The visualization engine may be operable to communicate visualization information to the app in the second screen communication device . The app may be operable to cause the corresponding visualization of the detected sounds to be rendered on the screen . The headset may also operable to communicate visualization information from the visualization engine to the game console . The game console may be operable to cause visualization of the detected sounds on the monitor via the communication link and or the second screen communication device via the communication link

The headset may monitor sound levels on each received audio channel e.g. CTR FR SR RR RL SL FL and generate the visualization based on analysis of the characteristics of the sounds that are detected in the various channels. The display or screen may represent relative amplitudes of sounds coming from the various directions. For example the visual representation may be an arrow pointing in the direction of the loudest sound. The display or screen may indicate position of multiple sound sources. For example the player s game character may be located at the center of a simulated radar screen and markers e.g. graphics images etc. corresponding to sound sources may be placed around the simulated radar screen at positions determined from the audio analysis. The different sound sources may be identified based on their unique sound signature or other characteristics and may be represented differently on the visualization . For example a first type of car having first sounding engine may be displayed in red while other cars with different engine sounds may be a different color. The visualization may be overlaid on the primary screen on which the game is being played and or may be presented on a second screen such as a smartphone a tablet and so on.

The app may be operable to display or overlay a grid for example a simulated radar grid that may give the listener of the headset a relative location of the detected sounds with respect to a location of the listeners game character and or the characteristics of the detected sounds. The listener s game character is shown at the center of the radar. Although a D visualization is shown the disclosure is not limited in this regards. Accordingly in some embodiments of the disclosure the visualization may comprise a 3D visualization.

The marker shows the detected sound of an approaching object. The object is approaching the listener s game character from the front and has been moving in the same direction towards the listener s game character for some time as indicated by the arrow and the length of the arrow. As the object gets closer to the listener s game character the size and or color of the object s marker may change and get more prominent. The length direction color and or shape of the arrow may serve as an indication of the one or more of the characteristics of the detected sounds of the approaching object.

The marker shows the detected sound of an approaching object. The object is approaching the listener s game character from the left and has been moving in various directions left of the listener s game character for some time as indicated by the arrow and the length of the arrow. The object is not getting closer to the listener s game character and instead is currently moving away from the listener s game character . The length direction color and or shape of the arrow may serve as an indication of the one or more of the characteristics of the detected sounds of the approaching object.

The marker shows the detected sound of an approaching opponent s footstep. The footsteps are approaching the listener s game character from the left and has been moving in the same direction left of the listener s game character for a relatively short period of time as indicated by the arrow and the length of the arrow. The footsteps are getting closer to the listener s game character . The length direction color and or shape of the arrow may serve and an indication of the one or more of the characteristics of the detected sounds of the approaching enemy s opponent s footsteps. As the number of detected footsteps increase the size of the marker may also increase.

The marker shows the detected sound of an approaching helicopter. The helicopter is approaching the listener s game character from the back and has been moving in the same direction towards the listener s game character for some time as indicated by the arrow and the length of the arrow. As the helicopter gets closer to the listener s game character the size and or color of the helicopter may change and get more prominent as the helicopter gets closer to the listener s game character . The length direction color and or shape of the arrow may serve and an indication of the one or more of the characteristics of the detected sounds of the approaching enemy s or opponent s helicopter. The marker has increased in size and the color has changed to show that it is close to the listener s game character .

The marker shows the detected sound of an entity that is currently unknown. The unknown entity has just been detected and additional information is needed to provide further visualization. The unknown entity appears to be currently moving in the general direction of the listener s game character but not directly towards the listener s game character .

The marker shows the detected sound of an approaching aircraft. The aircraft is approaching the listener s game character from the right and has been moving in various directions right of the listener s game character for some time as indicated by the arrow and the length of the arrow. The aircraft is getting closer and closer to the listener s game character . The length direction color and or shape of the arrow may serve as an indication of the one or more of the characteristics of the detected sounds of the aircraft. Several approaching aircrafts have been detected.

The marker shows the detected sound of an opponent s footstep. The footsteps have moved away from the listener s game character and have maintained the same direction to the right of the listener s game character for a long period of time as indicated by the arrow and the length of the arrow. The length direction color and or shape of the arrow may serve and an indication of the one or more of the characteristics of the detected sounds of the approaching enemy s or opponent s footsteps. As the number of detected footsteps increase the size of the marker may also increase. Multiple footsteps were detected.

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure a game headset such as the headset may be operable receive a plurality of channels of game and or chat audio during game play. The game headset may be operable to monitor the plurality of channels and detect one or more sounds on the channels during the monitoring. The game headset may be operable to determine characteristics of the detected one or more sound and outputs one or more signals for generating a visual representation of the detected one or more sounds based on the determined characteristics. The game headset may be operable to output the signals to a game console that provides the game play. The game console displays the visual representation during the game play based on the communicated visualization information. The one or more signals may comprise a video stream of an in game visualization. The game headset may be operable to output the one or more signals to a second screen communication device that generates the visual representation during the game play based on the signals.

For the determining of the characteristics of the detected one or more sounds the game headset may be operable to determine one or more of changes in which of the plurality of channels are carrying the detected one or more sounds changes in intensity or loudness of the detected one or more sound and changes in frequency of occurrence of the detected one or more sounds. The characteristics comprises one or more of intensity or loudness of the detected one or more sounds which of the plurality of channels are carrying the detected one or more sounds and frequency of occurrence of the detected one or more sounds. The game headset may be operable to perform signal analysis on the plurality of channels of game and or chat audio during the game play in order to determine the characteristics of the one or more sounds. The visual representation of the detected one or more sounds comprises a graphical representation of a location of the detected one or more sounds and a graphical representation of one or more of the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds. The graphical representation of one or more of the determined characteristics of the detected one or more sounds comprises one or more of a static representation an animated representation and a dynamic representation.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Throughout this disclosure the use of the terms dynamically and or adaptively with respect to an operation means that for example parameters for configurations for and or execution of the operation may be configured or reconfigured during run time e.g. in or near real time based on newly received or updated information or data. For example an operation within a transmitter and or a receiver may be configured or reconfigured based on for example current recently received and or updated signals information and or data.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

