---

title: Social network scanning
abstract: A method includes identifying data on a social network that is associated with a social entity, and determining one or more characteristics of the identified data. A reference to the identified data is generated for each of the one or more characteristic and the one or more references to the identified data is stored in one or more databases that are accessible to a security analysis engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055097&OS=09055097&RS=09055097
owner: ZeroFOX, Inc.
number: 09055097
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140318
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 798 917 filed Mar. 15 2013 and titled Social Threat Assessment U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 799 115 filed Mar. 15 2013 and titled Social Threat Scores and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 799 610 filed Mar. 15 2013 and titled Social Threat Alerts. All of these prior applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Traditional approaches to combatting cyber threats focus on securing endpoints and networks through reactive security measures that are focused on securing computing devices. Anti virus programs for example can be used to detect malicious software associated with local system level attacks e.g. a virus attached to an email and when defenses have already been breached to quarantine dangerous files that are detected within a computer system. Firewalls and other edge security devices can be used to establish a perimeter around sensitive systems by controlling the passage of information between networks so as to reduce the risk of unauthorized access.

Modern cyber threats however evolve alongside computer technology and attackers can be expected to leverage whatever means are available in order compromise or bypass traditional defenses. The development and expansion of social media for instance has introduced significant information security risk to both individuals and organizations. These risks include targeted social based cyber attacks fraud impersonations and social engineering. The evolving risk necessitates security technology that is predictive rather than reactive in nature and that identifies dormant maliciously minded entities before they can do damage.

In one aspect data on a social network that is associated with a social entity is identified and one or more characteristics of the identified data are determined. A reference to the identified data is generated for each of the one or more characteristics and one or more references to the identified data is stored in one or more databases that are accessible to a security analysis engine.

In another aspect the one or more references stored in the one or more databases is assessed by the security analysis engine and a social risk score for the social entity is generated based on the assessment. Comparing the social risk threshold to the social risk score for the social entity and initiating a security action if the social risk score exceeds the social risk threshold. Initiating the security action can include providing an alert to a user.

In yet another aspect an association between the social entity and the identified data can be identified based on the associated data originating with or was supplied created or referenced by the social entity.

In a further aspect the characteristics of the data that determined from the identified data are contextual lexical visual audio profile URL network destination content domain host and application characteristics.

In yet another aspect data associated with the social entity is received from a third party. The data associated with the social entity is received through an application programming interface API .

Other implementations of these aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the described techniques encoded on computer storage devices.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

Predictive and active social risk management technology reduces the risks posed to individuals and enterprises by cyber threats that target and exploit the social vector. Traditional approaches to combating cyber threats focus on endpoint and perimeter security providing reactive protection through for example anti virus software email and web gateways firewalls and intrusion detection systems. Online risks have evolved however and attacks now leverage social network and social media communications as means of bypassing traditional protections. The evolving risk necessitates security technology that is predictive and active rather than reactive in nature and that identifies dormant malicious entities before they can launch an attack.

In more detail an active social risk defense engine that identifies live attacks can be paired with a predictive analysis framework that identifies dormant risks before attacks occur. The predictive analysis framework can be driven by a scoring algorithm that can determine and score a risk posed by a social entity by analyzing characteristics of a target URL file or social communication that is associated with the social entity. The framework can analyze the target via a variety of analytical factors and can dynamically determine which factors to employ where each factor employed by the algorithm is associated with one or more characteristics of the target and or social entity. Based on the result of analysis the algorithm can score the risk posed by the social entity and can recommend or take appropriate security action based on a comparison of the social risk score to a social risk threshold.

Active risk protection module of security analysis engine may be used to protect user from immediate security risks by for example thwarting live attacks. In more detail either of unknown social entity or known social entity may attempt to communicate with or connect to user . In response to an attempt by a social entity at communication or connection with user active risk protection module may identify a URL file or social communication associated with the social entity and may initiate a security action after performing an analysis related to the identified URL file or social communication.

In more detail Uniform Resource Locators function as addresses that are used for example to specify the location of documents on the World Wide Web. An individual URL which may be referred to as a web address is a specific character string that references i.e. provides the location of a resource. For example http zerofox.com references the homepage of ZeroFOX a cyber security technology company. Risk protection module may identify an association between a social entity and a URL when for example the source of the URL is a social communication originating with the social entity or when the URL references a social network profile of the social entity. A social communication may be for example a post on a social network or a message sent between users of a social network.

Risk protection module may determine based on the URL associated with the social entity attempting to connect to or communicate with user that the social entity is a known entity such as known social entity . The determination may involve for example identifying an entry in social risk database that is associated with the social entity the entry including the URL and a social risk score for the social entity. Alternatively risk protection module may determine based on for example an absence of an entry associated with the social entry in social risk database that the social entity is an unknown entity such as unknown social entity . The determination may involve for example identifying an identity as a known entity only for a specific period of time. Prior to the expiration of the specified period of time a social entity that was scanned and identified as a known entity will be considered to be a known entity while after the expiration it will again be considered to be an unknown entity.

In response to determining that the social entity attempting to connect to or communicate with user is a known entity risk protection module may identify the social risk score that is associated with the social entity and may recommend or take appropriate security action based on a comparison of the social risk score to a social risk threshold.

A social risk score is a calculation of the security risk associated with a target URL file or social communication and thus the risk posed by a scored social entity that is associated with the target. Social risk scores may be determined by the predictive risk protection module of security analysis engine which may proactively identify online risks and cyber threats before attacks occur. The predictive risk protection module may be driven by a scoring algorithm that can determine and score a risk posed by a dormant social entity by analyzing a target URL file or social communication that is associated with the social entity prior to a user s engagement with the social entity. The social risk scores determined by the predictive protection module may be associated with corresponding URLs in entries that are generated by security analysis engine and that are stored in social risk database .

A variety of analytical factors can be used by the scoring algorithm to analyze a target URL file or social communication where each factor employed by the algorithm is associated with one or more characteristics of the target and or the social entity associated with the target. The characteristics of the target and or social entity that may be analyzed by the scoring algorithm include contextual lexical visual audio profile URL file network destination content domain host and application characteristics. The algorithm may analyze for example content of a resource that is referenced by a target URL such as a social network profile of the social entity that is referenced by the target. The algorithm may analyze the content or function of a target file and or the type size or attributes of the target file.

The algorithm may dynamically determine which factors to employ in analyzing a target URL file or social communication. The algorithm may for example assign a confidence level to a social risk score that is determined based on a first set of factors and if the confidence level falls below a confidence threshold the algorithm may refine the social risk score based on one or more additional sets of factors until the confidence level assigned to the social risk score meets or exceeds the confidence threshold.

A social risk threshold represents a level of tolerance for risk and a particular social risk threshold may be associated with a particular user organization or entity. Security analysis engine may assign a social risk threshold to a user organization or entity based on for example input from the user or one or more characteristics of the user user s social network activity and or a collection of users associated with the organization or entity.

When the risk protection module determines that the social entity attempting to connect to or communicate with user is a known entity the risk protection module may identify the social risk score that is associated with the social entity based on entry in social risk database and may recommend or take appropriate security action based on a comparison of the social risk score to the user s social risk threshold. The risk protection module may for example alert the user to the potential risk posed by the social entity and or block the social entity s communication or connection attempt.

When on the other hand the risk protection module determines that the social entity attempting to connect to or communicate with user is an unknown entity the risk protection module may use the scoring algorithm to generate a social risk score for the unknown entity and may store the generated social risk score in a new entry in the social risk database the new entry including the URL associated with the unknown entity and or characteristics of the social entity or user. The risk protection module may then recommend or take appropriate security action based on a comparison of the social risk score to the user s social risk threshold.

The predictive risk protection module may in addition to proactively determining social risk scores alert the user to risks posed by other social entities based on entries in social risk database . The predictive risk protection module may for example alert the user to risks posed by social entities with which user has had no contact. For example the risk protection module may identify a connection between user and known social entity in addition to a connection between known social entity and another social entity in social network . An entry in social risk database may indicate that the social risk score for known social entity falls below user s social risk threshold but another entry may indicate that the social risk score associated with the social entity with which user has had no contact exceeds user s social risk threshold. In cases like this the predictive risk protection module may based on a comparison between a social entity s social risk score and a user s social risk threshold initiate a security action relating to the social entity even before the social entity attempts to connect to or communicate with the user.

Process begins when security analysis engine identifies a social entity based on a URL that is associated with the social entity . The social entity may be identified for example by active risk protection module in response to an attempt by the social entity to connect to or to communicate with user . Alternatively the social entity may be identified by predictive risk protection module as it proactively seeks out dormant risks.

After identifying the social entity security analysis engine may determine whether the social entity is a known entity or is instead an unknown entity . If the social entity is a known entity the security analysis engine may compare the social risk score that is associated with the social entity in social risk database to a social risk threshold that is associated with the user and may determine whether the social risk score exceeds the social risk threshold . If the social risk score that is associated with the social entity exceeds the social risk threshold that is associated with the user the security analysis engine may initiate an appropriate security action . If however the social risk score that is associated with the social entity does not exceed the social risk threshold that is associated with the user the security analysis engine may instead take no action.

If the social entity is an unknown entity the security analysis engine may analyze characteristics of the social entity and or of a target URL file or social communication that is associated with the social entity in order to determine a social risk score . The security analysis engine may generate an entry in the social risk database that contains both the social risk score and one or more characteristics of the social entity and or the target. The security analysis engine may then compare the social risk score that is associated with the social entity to a social risk threshold that is associated with the user and may determine whether the social risk score exceeds the social risk threshold . If the social risk score that is associated with the social entity exceeds the social risk threshold that is associated with the user the security analysis engine may initiate an appropriate security action . If however the social risk score that is associated with the social entity does not exceed the social risk threshold that is associated with the user the security analysis engine may instead take no action.

The security analysis engine may be configured to actively scan one or more social networks for data that is available and that pertains to a social entity and may be further configured to receive additional data that is available from other sources.

A social entity may be in some instances a user of a social network such as an individual or a corporation. John Doe for example may maintain a Facebook profile in which case John Doe would be identified by security analysis engine as a social entity and information that is available through John Doe s profile including pictures textual content and links would be associated with John Doe. Similarly if Acme Inc. maker of fine widgets maintains a Twitter account for purposes of public relations Acme Inc. would be identified by security analysis engine as a social entity and information tweeted by representatives of Acme Inc. could be associated with both Acme Inc. and its representatives. In some instances however a social entity may be an individual who has generated a fake profile page spoofing another social entity. For example a malicious individual or bot could establish a second fake Acme Inc. Twitter profile but having been identified as a fake the profile would be associated with the social entity that is the malicious individual or bot rather than with Acme Inc. In other instances the social entity may be a software application that runs automated tasks in relation to a social network. A social network may harbor for example a malicious bot that is configured to maintain a social network profile for purposes of phising user data or spreading computer viruses. The malicious bot would also be identified by security analysis engine as a social entity and information on or related to the malicious bot s profile would be associated with the malicious bot.

Data that is identified by security engine through the process of scanning a social network may include for example information that is available through a social entity s profile information that is available to security engine by virtue of an agreement with the social entity and information that is provided to security engine by the social network or by another third party. A hyperlink that is associated with a social entity for example may be identified through the social entity s profile if the profile contains a reference to the hyperlink. The hyperlink may also be identified through a social network communication such as a message post or tweet if the social network communication is a source of the hyperlink.

The security engine may be further configured to determine one or more characteristics of identified data. Characteristics of an identified hyperlink may include for example URL network destination content domain and host. Characteristics of identified content that is associated with a social entity such as the text of a post by the social entity or associated files may include for example contextual lexical visual or audio indicators. Security engine may generate references to identified data and to characteristics of identified data. Once generated the references may be stored in for example social risk database for later use by the security engine . The stored references may be used for example to evaluate and score a risk posed by a social entity.

Process begins when a scanner identifies data on one or more social networks that is associated with a social entity . The scanner may be hosted at an entity that is different and separate from the security analysis engine . Alternatively the scanner may be part of or otherwise associated with the security analysis engine and may be integrated into the system illustrated in .

Security engine may for example actively scan social networks for publicly or authorized available information. Security engine may additionally identify information that is associated with a social entity and that is received through an application programming interface API . The type of data that is scanned from social networks may vary depending on the social network. For some social networks security engine may only have access to publicly available information in which case the scan of the social network would be limited to identifying and or acquiring this publicly available data. Other social networks may instead recognize security engine as an authorized user or as otherwise having elevated security status and may therefore provide security engine with access to additional information that is not available to the general public. The different social networks may contain different types of data associated with a user profile. The security engine accesses each social network for only data that is available for that network. The security engine would not request data from a social network that is not maintained by the social network. For example the security engine may scan a LinkedIn profile instead of a Twitter profile for employment information.

Security engine may be configured to scan for only a subset of the data that is available on or through a social network. Scanning may be limited for example to popular pages or user profiles on a social network such as popular Facebook profiles and or popular Twitter hash tags. Security engine may also be configured to scan social networks for any information associated with a particular individual enterprise or company. Security engine may for example be configured to scan the LinkedIn profiles of all employees of Acme Inc. In some implementations the system may constantly scan one or more social networks for data. In other implementations the system may only scan during a set time period.

The security engine may determine one or more characteristics of identified data . Characteristics that may be determined for identified data may vary depending on the type of data. Identified data that is associated with a social entity may include for example the social entity s user name history contacts and associated links and content. For an individual the identified data may also include demographic information such as age gender location and place of employment. Characteristics of a post may include for example language timestamp URL domain or other information and metadata.

In some instances identified data may include data that is correlated. Audio visual A V content data and textual data may for example be correlated in an instance in which the text describes the A V data. In another example content data may be a URL to a link the text data may include a user profile that is associated with the link. For example the identified data may include a link to the Acme Inc. website that was posted by John Doe an avid fan or detractor of Acme Inc. In this example the posted content or the link to the Acme Inc. website may be determined to be characteristics of the identified data in addition to characteristics that include correlations between data identified from John Doe s profile.

Following determination of the characteristics of the identified data security engine may generate for each of the one or more characteristics a reference to the characteristic or to the identified data to which the characteristic pertains . Security engine may for instance create a reference to a characteristic by tagging the characteristic. The characteristic may be tagged for example with a keyword or term that describes the characteristic.

Security engine may store references to identified data in one or more databases for later analysis . References to identified data that is associated with a social entity may be stored for example in social risk database and may later be accessed to generate a social risk score for the social entity. Storage of references to identified data rather than the identified data itself may minimize the amount of memory needed to assess and to act on risks posed by social entities. In some implementations however both references to identified data and the identified data itself may be stored. In some implementations all references to the one or more characteristics of the identified data associated with the social entity are stored while in others only a select group of references are stored.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

In addition logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

Elements of different implementations described herein may be combined to form other implementations not specifically set forth above. Elements may be left out of the processes computer programs Web pages etc. described herein without adversely affecting their operation. Furthermore various separate elements may be combined into one or more individual elements to perform the functions described herein.

Other implementations not specifically described herein are also within the scope of the following claims.

