---

title: Pushing notifications based on location proximity
abstract: Technology is disclosed for pushing notifications to computing devices based on location proximity (“the technology”). Various embodiments of the technology includes a proxy server that facilitates transmission of notifications to the computing devices based on a location proximity and/or access pattern of the computing devices. The proxy server transmits the notifications to the devices based on their location proximity with a primary device of the user, e.g., a device which the user uses more often than others. For example, if a particular device is not within a predefined location proximity of the primary device, the proxy server delays the transmission of notifications to the particular device until the particular device is in the predefined location proximity. In another example, a transmission frequency of the notifications is continuously adjusted based on the location proximity, e.g., the transmission frequency is increased as the proximity increases, and is decreased as the proximity decreases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08793397&OS=08793397&RS=08793397
owner: Nextbit Systems Inc.
number: 08793397
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140304
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 042 507 entitled ADJUSTING PUSH NOTIFICATIONS BASED ON LOCATION PROXIMITY filed on Sep. 30 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 708 794 entitled CLOUD COMPUTING INTEGRATED OPERATING SYSTEM filed on Oct. 2 2012 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Various of the disclosed embodiments relate to mobile devices and more particularly to facilitating pushing notifications to mobile devices based on location proximity.

There are many applications running on computing devices e.g. mobile phones tablet computers laptop computers etc. that can receive push notifications and messages from remote servers in the mobile computing device ecosystem. For instance the Apple Push Notification Service is a push service. The Apple Push Notification Service forwards notifications from remote servers of applications to the Apple devices through a constantly open Internet Protocol IP connection. Such notifications can include badges sounds or test alerts. Developers of applications can take advantages of the push service by using application programming interface API calls provided by Apple Inc. The size of each notification message is usually restricted to a predetermined size e.g. 256 bytes. Cloud to Device Messaging C2DM is a push service that allows remote servers to send messages to mobile applications on computing devices. Remote servers can use this service to notify mobile applications to contact the server and fetch updated data.

These push messaging services can create serious drains on the batteries of the computing devices particularly for computing devices maintaining wireless network connections e.g. WiFi or cellular networks . Every time a new message notification is pushed to a computing device the computing device switches from a low power conservation state to a higher power consuming state for a period of time. Upon entering the higher power consuming state the computing device remains in that state for at least a fixed time period before it can return to a low power conservation state. The higher the number of times push notifications are received longer the period the computing device remains in the higher power consuming state and the more the consumption of the battery of the computing device will be.

The current ecosystem of mobile computing devices does not consider location proximity of the computing devices for pushing the notifications. A user can have multiple mobile computing devices such as tablets and smartphones. While the user may use the smartphone more frequently or carry it more often the user may not carry the tablet everywhere. So the user can be away from the tablet for a longer period of time. However the current ecosystem typically sends notifications to both the devices regardless of whether the user is near and or likely to use the tablet. This typically results in consumption of power even when the user is not likely to use the tablet. Accordingly current notification techniques are inefficient at least in terms of power management.

Technology is disclosed for pushing notifications to computing devices based on location proximity the technology . Various embodiments of the technology includes a proxy server that facilitates transmission of notifications to the computing devices e.g. mobile devices based on a location proximity and or access pattern of the computing devices. The proxy server transmits the notifications to the devices based on their location proximity with a primary device of the user e.g. a device which the user uses more often than others. For example if a particular device is not within a predefined location proximity of the primary device the proxy server delays the transmission of notifications to the particular device until the particular device is in the predefined location proximity. In another example a transmission frequency of the notifications is continuously adjusted based on the location proximity e.g. the transmission frequency is increased as the proximity increases and is decreased as the proximity decreases. The proxy server consolidates and stores all the notifications intended for that particular computing device until such time.

In some embodiments the proximity of the user to the particular computing device can be determined based on whether a primary computing device associated with and also present with the user e.g. a mobile phone such as a smartphone is in proximity to the particular computing device. Various techniques including a geographical location proximity peer to peer communication techniques such as Bluetooth NFC WiFi AirDrop etc. can be used to determine if the corresponding mobile devices are in close proximity.

Various embodiments of the technology transmit notifications to the computing devices based on an access pattern of the computing devices. The technology tracks an access pattern of the particular computing device by the user and predicts using various prediction techniques based on the historical usage data and location proximity of the computing devices whether a user is likely to use the particular computing device e.g. at a particular time of the day week or year or at a particular place when the primary device is in close proximity to the particular computing device etc. If the user is not likely to use the particular computing device the proxy server delays the transmission of the updates to the particular computing device. In some embodiments the proxy server delays the transmission until the proxy server determines that the user is likely to use the device. In some embodiments the proxy server may decrease the frequency of sending the notifications to the particular computing device until the proxy server determines that the user is likely to use the particular computing device. The proxy server can consolidate and store all the notifications intended for that particular computing device until such time.

A notification can include but is not limited to a a notification from an application on the primary computing device b a notification from an application associated with a remote server c an update to an application installed on the first computing device or d a synchronization message from the primary computing device for synchronizing a state of an application between the primary computing device and the first computing device.

In some embodiments by consolidating and transmitting the notifications when the user is in close proximity to or likely to use the particular computing device the number of times the particular computing device has to switch to a high power consumption state for receiving the notifications is minimized and therefore the power consumed by the particular computing device is also minimized.

Technology is disclosed for transmitting notification updates to computing devices the technology . Various embodiments of the technology transmits notifications to multiple computing devices e.g. mobile devices associated with a user based on a location proximity of the computing devices. In one such embodiment the notifications to a particular computing device e.g. a tablet of the user is delayed if the user is not within a predefined location proximity to the particular computing device. A proxy server that facilitates the transmission of the notifications to the particular computing device delays or decreases the frequency of sending the notifications to the particular computing device until e.g. the user is within the predefined location proximity to the particular computing device. The proxy server consolidates and stores all the notifications intended for that particular computing device until such time.

In some embodiments the proximity of the user to the particular computing device can be determined based on whether a primary computing device associated with and also present with the user e.g. a mobile phone such as a smartphone is in proximity to the particular computing device. In some embodiments the user may configure one of the computing devices of the user as a primary computing device. In some embodiments the technology may identify one of the computing devices of the user as a primary computing device e.g. a computing device that the user uses more often than the other computing devices. Various techniques including a geographical location proximity peer to peer communication techniques such as Bluetooth NFC WiFi AirDrop etc. can be used to determine if the corresponding mobile devices are in close proximity.

Various embodiments of the technology transmit notifications to the computing devices based on an access pattern of the computing devices. The technology tracks an access pattern of the particular computing device by the user and predicts using various prediction techniques based on the historical usage data and location proximity of the computing devices whether a user is likely to use the particular computing device e.g. at a particular time of the day week or year at a particular place when the primary device is in close proximity to the particular computing device etc. If the user is not likely to use the particular computing device the proxy server delays the transmission of the updates to the particular computing device. In some embodiments the proxy server delays the transmission until the proxy server determines that the user is likely to use the device. In some embodiments the proxy server may decrease the frequency of sending the notifications to the particular computing device until the proxy server determines that the user is likely to use the particular computing device. The proxy server can consolidate and store all the notifications intended for that particular computing device until such time.

A notification can include but is not limited to a a notification from an application on the primary computing device b a notification from an application associated with a remote server c an update to an application installed on the first computing device or d a synchronization message from the primary computing device for synchronizing a state of an application between the primary computing device and the first computing device.

In some embodiments by consolidating and transmitting the notifications when the user is in close proximity to or likely to use the particular computing device the number of times the particular computing device has to switch to a high power consumption state for receiving the notifications is minimized and therefore the power consumed by the particular computing device is also minimized.

A cloud data interface can also be included to receive data from and send data to computing devices . The cloud data interface can include network communication hardware and network connection logic to receive the information from computing devices. The network can be a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or the Internet. The cloud data interface may include a queuing mechanism to organize data update received from or sent to the computing devices and .

In some embodiments any communication a between the remote servers and the computing devices and b between the computing devices are routed through the cloud proxy service . For example notifications to the computing devices are routed through cloud proxy service . The notifications can be generated by the remote servers for any of the computing devices or by any of the computing devices for one or more of many computing devices. In one example the cloud proxy service transmits the notifications generated by and received from the remote servers to the appropriate computing devices. In another example the cloud proxy service transmits the notifications generated by one of the computing devices or for one or more of many computing devices to the one or more of the many computing devices.

In yet another example in an environment where the computing devices can communicate with each other directly using a peer to peer communication technique e.g. Bluetooth the cloud proxy service facilitates the computing devices to communicate directly for sending receiving the notifications. In some embodiments while the computing devices and send receive the notifications directly the cloud proxy service may also obtain a copy of the notifications.

Although illustrates two computing devices and a person having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the technology disclosed herein can be applied to a single computing device or more than two computing devices connected to the cloud proxy service .

The computing devices include an operating system to manage the hardware resources of the computing devices and provide services for running computer applications e.g. mobile applications running on mobile devices . The operating system facilitates execution of the computer applications on the computing device . The computing devices include at least one local storage device to store the computer applications and user data. The computing device or can be a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer an automobile computer a game console a smartphone a personal digital assistant or other computing devices capable of running computer applications as contemplated by a person having ordinary skill in the art.

The computer applications stored in the computing devices can include applications for general productivity and information retrieval including email calendar contacts and stock market and weather information. The computer applications can also include applications in other categories such as mobile games factory automation GPS and location based services banking order tracking ticket purchases or any other categories as contemplated by a person having ordinary skill in the art.

The operating system of the computing devices includes socket redirection modules to redirect network messages. The computer applications generates and maintains network connections directed to various remote servers e.g. remote servers and . Instead of directly opening and maintaining the network connections with these remote servers the socket redirection modules routes all of the network messages for these connections of the computer applications to the cloud proxy service . The cloud proxy service is responsible to open and maintain network connections with the remote servers and .

All or some of the network connections of the computing devices are through the cloud proxy service . The network connections can include Transmission Control Protocol TCP connections User Datagram Protocol UDP connections or other types of network connections based on other protocols. When there are multiple computer applications that need network connections to multiple remote servers the computing devices only needs to maintain one network connections with the cloud proxy service . The cloud proxy service will in turn maintain multiple connections with the remote servers on behalf of the computer applications .

The cloud proxy service can connect to the remote servers and via a network . The network can be for example the Internet a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks.

In some embodiments the cloud proxy service can control transmission of notifications to the computing devices based on at least one of a location proximity of the computing devices or an access pattern of the computing devices by a user of the computing devices . The controlling of transmission can include delaying the transmission or decreasing the frequency of transmission of the notifications to one or more of the computing devices if the one or more of the computing devices are not in predefined range of location proximity or if the one or more of the computing devices is not likely to be accessed by the user. This helps in minimizing the number of times the notifications are transmitted to the computing devices and therefore in minimizing the usage of power of the computing devices . The cloud proxy service can maintain data relating to the location or the access pattern of the computing devices and use the data to control the way of transmitting notifications to the computing devices efficiently. Additional details with respect to transmission of notifications based on location proximity and or access pattern are described at least with reference to .

The device connection module establishes a device network connection with a computing device and a server network connection with a remote server in response to a request from the computing device for connecting with the remote server. The request can be generated by a computer application running at the computing device. The device connection module can maintain multiple server network connections with multiple remote servers as a proxy of one or more computer applications of the computing devices.

As explained above the transmission of notifications to the computing devices can be controlled based on at least one of a location proximity of the computing devices or an access pattern of the computing devices by a user of the computing devices. In some embodiments the location proximity determination module determines the location proximity as a function of the geographical location proximity of two or more computing devices e.g. a primary computing device and a secondary computing device of a user. In some embodiments a primary computing device is one of the multiple computer devices associated with the user which the user uses more often than the other computing devices. The geographical location of the device can be determined using various means such as Global Positioning System GPS installed on the device cellular towers the device is in communication with IP address through an application installed on the device that has location details of the device etc.

In some embodiments the geographical location proximity can be determined as a function of distance between two or more computing devices. In some embodiments the geographical location proximity can be determined as a function of time between two or more computing devices. For example consider that devices e.g. primary computing device A and secondary computing device B are at different geographical locations X and Y respectively which are 30 miles apart. Further consider that it takes approximately 45 minutes to travel e.g. by road rail air walk etc. between the locations X and Y . The geographical location proximity of the devices A and B as a function of distance is determined as 30 miles and as a function of time is determined can be 45 minutes. The geographical location proximity 30 miles signifies that the user having the device A is 30 miles from where the device B is. Similarly the geographical location proximity 45 minutes signifies that the user having the device A can take approximately 45 minutes to reach the location where the device B is. Various other functions may be used in determining the geographical location proximity.

The notification push determination module determines whether the primary computing device and the secondary computing device are within a predefined location proximity range for facilitating transmission of the notifications to the secondary computing device. In some embodiments the closer the computing devices are higher is the frequency with which the notifications are transmitted and farther the computing devices are lower is the frequency with which notifications are transmitted. For example for a location proximity range of 5 mins 10 mins the transmission rate of notifications can be per minute for the location proximity range of 20 mins 30 mins the transmission rate of notifications can be per five 5 minutes and for a location proximity range of 5 miles 10 miles the transmission rate of notifications can be per minute etc. That is farther the devices are lower is the frequency at which the notifications are transmitted. This can help save the battery life of the secondary computing device by minimizing the number of times the notifications are sent to the secondary computing device while the device is not being used by the user. Various such location proximity thresholds can be set for different transmission rates.

Regarding the transmission of notifications to the primary computing device in some embodiments since the primary computing device is used by the user more often than the other devices the proxy server transmits the notifications to the primary computing device without any delay. In some other embodiments the notifications may sent to the primary computing device if the device is active e.g. displayed is turned on or the user is interacting with the device.

In an embodiment the predefined location proximity ranges and their corresponding transmission frequencies can be configured by a user of the computing device or other entities such as a provider or an administrator of the proxy server .

Consider a scenario where computing devices such as a mobile phone and a tablet are associated with a user. The user carries the mobile phone everywhere the user goes but uses the tablet generally when at home. For example the user may carry the mobile phone to work every day but may leave the tablet at home. The mobile phone can be considered as a primary computing device associated with the user since the user uses the mobile phone more frequently or more often than the tablet. The user can receive notifications on his mobile phone and tablet from various services or applications such as Facebook Google or from any other application installed on the mobile phone and the tablet of the user. In some embodiments the notifications can also include notifications generated by the mobile phone for the tablet or vice versa for example a file update notification or a game notification.

Consider that the tablet is at home and the mobile phone is with the user at his office and the user takes 30 minutes to reach home from office. When the proxy server receives notifications generated for the user by various sources the proxy server transmits e.g. via the network component the notifications to the mobile phone without any delay. However with respect to the tablet the proxy server determines whether the tablet is in a predefined location proximity range. The location proximity determination module determines that the tablet is 30 minutes away from the mobile phone. Accordingly the notification push determination module refers to the predefined location proximity ranges and determines the frequency of transmission of the notifications to the tablet. The frequency of transmission for 30 minutes location proximity range can be for example every 5 minutes. Accordingly the proxy server delays the transmission of notifications to the tablet until the next transmission interval. The proxy server stores all the notifications that are received for the tablet until they are transmitted.

In some embodiments the location proximity determination module determines the location proximity between the mobile phone and the tablet using peer to peer communication techniques such as Bluetooth NFC WiFi AirDrop etc. If the mobile phone and the tablet are able to communicate using the peer to peer communication techniques the notification push determination module determines that the devices are in close proximity and therefore may determine that the notifications may be transmitted without any delay or at an increased frequency. Further the proxy server can also facilitate the devices to send receive the notifications directly from the other devices using the peer to peer communicate techniques.

In some embodiments if the mobile phone and the tablet are sharing a common communication network such as a wireless network the notification push determination module determines that the devices are in close proximity.

In some embodiments the proxy server also considers an access pattern of the computing devices by the user in addition to or instead of location proximity of the computing devices for controlling the transmission of the notifications to the computing devices. The location proximity determination module tracks an access pattern of a particular computing device by the user to generate historical usage data. The historical data can include a particular time of the day week or year the user accessed the particular computing device and the duration for which the user accessed the particular computing device the applications accessed a particular location where the particular computing device was accessed a location proximity of the primary computing device when the computing device was accessed etc. The access data can also include factors such as weather when the particular computing device was accessed.

In some embodiments the access data can also include usage or non usage statistics of the particular tablet at times when certain external events occur such as telecast of particular television shows during which the particular computing device was not accessed. Such data can be used to predict scenarios where the user may be not likely to use the computing device at a time and for a period a particular show is telecasted.

The notification push determination module predicts based on the historical usage data and the location proximity range of the mobile devices as to whether a user is likely to use a particular computing device primary or non primary e.g. at a particular time of the day week or year at a particular place when the primary device is in close proximity to the particular mobile device etc. If the user is not likely to use the particular computing device the proxy server delays the transmission of the updates to the particular computing device. In some embodiments the proxy server delays the transmission until the proxy server determines that the user is likely to use the device.

The notification push determination module predicts the access data of the devices by the user using various means including machine learning techniques artificial intelligence third party services applications products etc. Alternatively or additionally the notification push determination module may also consider the access pattern of various other users to determine various trends in the access pattern of the computing devices based on which the access pattern for a particular user and a particular device can be predicted. It can also consider access pattern of a certain group of users e.g. users from a city country users of a particular job type roles etc. Various such techniques can be used to optimize the predicted data for higher accuracy.

For example consider the above scenario where the user carries the mobile phone with him to work while the tablet is left behind at home. The user typically accesses or uses the tablet when the user is back home from work. The location proximity determination module tracks data such as the time of the day the tablet is accessed the time of the day user starts from work to home the time taken to reach home etc. In some embodiments the location proximity determination module determines such data by tracking the location of the mobile phone the user is carrying. The location of the mobile device is determined using various means including GPS from applications installed on the computing device that has current location details etc.

Based on the historical data tracked by the location proximity determination module the notification push determination module may determine that the user typically uses the tablet every day at 6 pm the user starts for work at 7 am starts for home at 5 pm and takes 45 minutes to reach home. Accordingly the notification push determination module may determine that any notifications received for the tablet after 7 am in the morning can be for example delayed until 5 pm. All notifications that are received at the proxy server for the tablet can be stored by the proxy server until such time. The proxy server starts transmitting the notifications from 5 pm and increases the frequency as the user is reaching home.

Various examples for transmitting notifications to computing devices based on location proximity is described at least with reference to .

The remote servers can include information publishers social media applications such as Facebook Google etc. or any applications or third party services that can send notifications to the computing devices. The computing devices communicate with the proxy server and the remote servers over a communication network . In some embodiments the computing devices can be one or more of a mobile phone a tablet a desktop a laptop a tablet a gaming device etc. Typically a user can have multiple computing devices. In some embodiments a primary computing device is a computing device that the user uses more often than the other computing devices. For example in a scenario where the user carries the mobile phone to work every day but leaves the tablet at home the mobile phone is considered to be a primary computing device of the user since the user can potentially use the mobile phone more frequently and more often than the tablet. In some embodiments the proxy server may determine which of the computing devices associated with the user is a primary computing device e.g. based on the access pattern of the computing device. In some embodiments the proxy server may determine a computing device which is currently active e.g. if the user is currently using the computing device or if the display of the computing device is on as a primary computing device. In some embodiments the user may specify e.g. via a user interface such as a user profile user interface which of the computing devices is a primary computing device.

Consider a scenario where the primary computing device is with the user in his office headquarters the first computing device is at another office one block away from the headquarters and the second computing device is home which is 60 minutes away. Further consider that the location proximity range to facilitate transmission of notifications is set e.g. by an entity such as an administrator of proxy server as 10 minutes. That is notifications are transmitted without any delay to computing devices in the proximity of 10 minutes from the primary computing device .

In the system the first remote server generates a notification e.g. a status update from a social network for the user. The proxy server identifies the primary computing device of the user and transmits the notification to the primary computing device . The proxy server determines whether the first computing device and the second computing device are within a predefined location proximity range from the primary computing device for transmission of the notification . The proxy server determines that the first computing device is within the predefined location proximity range and therefore transmits the notification to the first computing device without any delay. In some embodiments the proxy server may transmit the notification according to a frequency defined for the particular location proximity range.

Regarding the second computing device the proxy server determines that the second computing device is not within the predefined location proximity range from the primary computing device . Accordingly the proxy server may delay the transmission of the notification to the second computing device . The proxy server may store all the notifications for later transmission. In some embodiments the proxy server may transmit the notification to the second computing device when the second computing device is in the predefined location proximity range. For example when the user starts from work towards home the proxy server may start transmitting the notification to the second computing device when the user e.g. primary computing device associated with the user is within 10 minutes from home. The proxy server may determine when to transmit the notification either based on the location proximity between the primary computing device and the second computing device or based on the access pattern of the second computing device .

In some embodiments the notifications can be generated by the primary computing device . illustrates an example of a system for transmitting notifications from one computing device of a user to other computing devices of the user based on a location proximity and or access pattern of the computing devices consistent with various embodiments of the disclosed technology. The notifications can include data such as changes in a state of an application e.g. user entering a new stage in a game addition of a new photo to the user s photo library changes in user account settings etc. that may have to be synchronized on all the computing devices of the user. In some embodiments in the system a proxy server a primary computing device a first computing device and a second computing device can be similar to the proxy server the primary computing device the first computing device and the second computing device respectively.

In the system consider that all the computing devices are within the predefined location proximity range which is determined for example as described with reference to or . The primary computing device generates a notification and sends it to the proxy server for transmitting to the other computing devices associated with the user. The proxy server identifies the other computing devices the first computing device and the second computing device as being within predefined location proximity range of the primary computing device and transmits the notifications to the first computing device and the second computing device . The proxy server transmits the notifications without any delay or according to a frequency defined for the particular location proximity range. The proxy server transmits the notifications via the network .

In the system the primary computing device transmits the notifications to the first computing device and the second computing device via the proxy server . In some embodiments the primary computing device can transmit the notifications to one or more of the computing devices directly. illustrates an example of a system for transmitting notifications from a primary computing device of a user to other computing devices associated with the user directly and based on a location proximity of the computing devices consistent with various embodiments of the disclosed technology.

In some embodiments in the system the proxy server a primary computing device a first computing device and a second computing device can be similar to the proxy server the primary computing device the first computing device and the second computing device respectively of . As explained above at least with reference to the proxy server can determine whether the computing devices are in close proximity by determining whether the devices can communicate directly for example using peer to peer communication techniques such as Bluetooth WiFi or WiFi direct AirDrop Infrared NFC etc. In some embodiments the proxy server also determines whether the computing devices are in close proximity by determining whether the computing devices share a common communication network e.g. a wireless network such as a home WiFi network.

In the system the proxy server determines that the first computing device and the second computing device are in close proximity to the primary computing device and can all communicate with each other directly. Accordingly when the primary computing device sends a notification request to the proxy server requesting it to transmit the notifications to the other computing devices associated with the user the proxy server responds to request by asking the primary computing device to communicate with the first computing device and the second computing device directly. The primary computing device may then transmit the notifications to the first computing device and the second computing device directly using any of the various peer to peer communication techniques. In some embodiments though the primary computing device transmits the notifications to the other computing devices directly a copy of the notification may also be transmitted to the proxy server . Further in some embodiments the direct communication between the computing devices is controlled by the proxy server . That is the computing devices may not communicate directly unless permitted by the proxy server .

At step the proxy server determines a location proximity between the first computing device and the primary computing device of the user. In some embodiments the proxy server determines the location proximity as a function of the geographical location proximity of the primary computing device and the first computing device. The geographical location of the device can be determined using various means such as Global Positioning System GPS installed on the device cellular towers the device is in communication with IP address etc. The geographical location proximity can be determined in terms of distance time etc. An example of geographical location proximity of devices A and B which are at locations X and Y respectively in terms of distance can be 30 miles which indicates that the devices are 30 miles apart and in terms of time can be 45 minutes which indicates that user using the primary computing device A at a location X may take 45 minutes to reach location Y by walk road rail air etc.

In some embodiments the proxy server determines the location proximity between the primary computing device and the first computing device using peer to peer communication techniques such as Bluetooth NFC WiFi AirDrop etc. If the devices are able to communicate directly then they may be considered to be in close proximity.

Referring back to step in addition to or instead of the location proximity of the devices the proxy server can determine an access pattern of the first computing device to determine whether when the user is likely to access to the first computing device. At step the proxy server determines whether the location proximity or the access pattern of the first computing device satisfies the proximity based notification criteria. The proximity based notification criteria can include location proximity ranges and the access pattern information which is described above with reference to . In some embodiment the proximity based notification criteria can be set by an entity such as an administrator of the proxy server .

Responsive to a determination that the proximity based notification criteria is not satisfied at step the notifications are stored by the proxy server for later transmission and the control is transferred to step . On the other hand responsive to a determination that the proximity based notification criteria is satisfied at step the proxy server facilitates the transmission of the notifications to the first computing device without delay. While the proxy server transmits the notifications without any delay in some embodiments a frequency of the transmission of the notifications is adjusted based on the location proximity and or access pattern. For example as the primary computing device moves closer to the first computing device the frequency of transmission of the notifications may be increased and while the primary computing device moves farther from the first computing device the frequency of transmission of the notifications may be decreased.

Referring back to step the determination of whether the proximity based notification criteria is satisfied is illustrated with reference to . In the example process of at determination step the proxy server determines whether a proximity value determined as a function of geographical distance between the first computing device and the primary computing device is within a predefined location proximity range. If yes the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is satisfied . If no the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is not satisfied .

At determination step the proxy server determines whether the first computing device and the primary computing device share a common communication network. If yes the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is satisfied . If no the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is not satisfied .

At determination step the proxy server determines whether the distance between the first computing device and the primary computing device is within a range that allows the devices to communicate with each other directly using a peer to peer communication technology. If yes the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is satisfied . If no the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is not satisfied .

At determination step the proxy server determines whether the access pattern of the first computing device by the user satisfy a predefined criteria. For example whether the user is likely to use the first computing device at a particular time etc. If yes the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is satisfied . If no the proxy server determines that the proximity based notification criteria is not satisfied .

The memory and storage devices are computer readable storage media that may store instructions that implement at least portions of the described technology. In addition the data structures and message structures may be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium such as a signal on a communications link. Various communications links may be used such as the Internet a local area network a wide area network or a point to point dial up connection. Thus computer readable media can include computer readable storage media e.g. non transitory media and computer readable transmission media.

The instructions stored in memory can be implemented as software and or firmware to program the processor s to carry out actions described above. In some embodiments such software or firmware may be initially provided to the processing system by downloading it from a remote system through the computing system e.g. via network adapter .

The technology introduced herein can be implemented by for example programmable circuitry e.g. one or more microprocessors programmed with software and or firmware or entirely in special purpose hardwired non programmable circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Special purpose hardwired circuitry may be in the form of for example one or more ASICs PLDs FPGAs etc.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. Further various modifications may be made without deviating from the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not for other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way. One will recognize that memory is one form of a storage and that the terms may on occasion be used interchangeably.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the logic illustrated in each of the flow diagrams discussed above may be altered in various ways. For example the order of the logic may be rearranged substeps may be performed in parallel illustrated logic may be omitted other logic may be included etc.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

