---

title: One-touch payment using haptic control via a messaging and calling multimedia system on mobile device and wearable device, currency token interface, point of sale device, and electronic payment card
abstract: Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for messaging, calling, and one-touch payments via mobile and wearable devices. An exemplary system comprises a processor and a database in communication with the processor. The processor is configured to provide an integrated interface for selection of an activity mode. The activity mode includes a messaging mode, a calling mode, and a one-touch payment mode. The processor is further configured to receive the selection of the activity mode via the integrated interface from a user. If the messaging mode is selected, a message from the user is received and sent to a recipient via a data network. If the calling mode is selected, a data network call is initiated on a call request of the user. If the one-touch payment mode is selected, a payment request is transmitted to a financial organization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08985442&OS=08985442&RS=08985442
owner: 
number: 08985442
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141127
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 875 311 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING MOBILE PAYMENT ACCOUNT MOBILE BARCODE AND UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE CURRENCY filed on May 2 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 620 775 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING CODES AND CASHBACK BUSINESS MODEL filed on Sep. 15 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 661 207 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR RECEIVING COMPENSATION FOR USING MOBILE PAYMENT SERVICES filed on Oct. 26 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 760 214 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL DEVICE FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS AND PERSONAL USE filed on Feb. 6 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 973 146 entitled WEARABLE AUGMENTED REALITY EYEGLASS COMMUNICATION DEVICE INCLUDING MOBILE PHONE AND MOBILE COMPUTING VIA VIRTUAL TOUCH SCREEN GESTURE CONTROL AND NEURON COMMAND filed on Aug. 22 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 646 706 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PREVENTING CARD PAYMENT FRAUD AND RECEIVING PAYMENTS USING CODES AND MOBILE DEVICES filed on Jul. 18 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 287 279 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS TO ADVERTISE AND SELL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES VIA CLOUD GAMING ENVIRONMENTS filed on Nov. 2 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 185 491 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING filed on Jul. 18 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 944 filed Sep. 21 2012 titled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING TO ENABLE SELF CHECKOUT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 753 855 filed Jan. 30 2013 titled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL EYEGLASS DEVICE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 154 446 filed Jan. 14 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ISSUING MOBILE PAYMENT CARDS VIA A MOBILE COMMUNICATION NETWORK AND INTERNET CONNECTED DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 165 826 filed Jan. 28 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO OWN A FREE COMPUTER A FREE MOBILE DEVICE AND A FREE WEARABLE DEVICE AND LIFE TIME WARRANTY VIA THE SAME DEVICE PAYMENT CASHBACK U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 776 852 filed Feb. 26 2013 titled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL FLEXIBLE CLOUD GAME MULTIMEDIA COMMUNICATION AND COMPUTING DEVICE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 334 992 filed Jul. 18 2014 titled MOBILE AND WEARABLE DEVICE PAYMENTS VIA FREE CROSS PLATFORM MESSAGING SERVICE FREE VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL COMMUNICATION FREE OVER THE TOP CONTENT COMMUNICATION AND UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE AND WEARABLE DEVICE CURRENCY FACES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 509 027 filed Oct. 7 2014 titled GLOBAL WORLD UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE AND WEARABLE CURRENCY IMAGE TOKEN AND LEDGER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 272 939 filed Aug. 5 2014 titled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL DEVICE WITH CHANGEABLE BENDABLE BATTERY AND EXPANDABLE DISPLAY USED AS STANDALONE ELECTRONIC PAYMENT CARD U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 799 023 filed Mar. 13 2013 titled METHODS AND SYSTEMS TO ADVERTISE AND SELL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES VIA A TABLE TABLET COMPUTER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 198 683 filed Mar. 6 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE USING HAPTIC CONTROL CLOUD VOICE CHANGER AND PROTECTING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA PRIVACY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 537 867 filed Nov. 10 2014 titled INTERNET BASED PLATFORM AND MOBILE WEB BASED PLATFORM COMBINING ONLINE AND OFFLINE GAMING ADVERTISING MOBILE AND WEARABLE DIGITAL CURRENCY TOKENS AND COMMERCE PROVIDING FREE GAMES FREE PRODUCTS AND FREE SERVICES FREE OF INTERCHANGE FEES and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 458 791 filed Aug. 13 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to methods and systems for messaging calling and one touch payments performed via a mobile and wearable device.

Mobile payments generally refer to payment operations performed via a mobile or wearable device. The operations performed via mobile and wearable devices may include electronic commerce transactions retail purchasing micropayments and other daily payments. Mobile payments may utilize credit cards debit cards gift cards and virtual currencies. While mobile payments facilitate and stimulate the trade the procedure of providing financial details and authenticating of identity may be tedious and time consuming. Therefore the convenience of mobile payments for daily micropayments is hindered.

Additionally a mobile or wearable device is often used as an authorization factor for example by positioning the mobile device or by sending a one time code to the mobile device. This allows recognizing and counteracting the credit card data theft and increasing security of mobile payments.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for messaging calling and one touch payments via a mobile and wearable device. Using the methods or systems described herein a user may perform fast electronic payments from any location. For this purpose the user may register with the messaging calling and one touch payment system. During the registration the user may provide his financial information. The financial information may include bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information prepaid card information insurance account information merchant account information mobile currency information digital money account SDK payment information in app payment information social networking payment information prepaid card information API payment information mobile account payment information mobile currency information and so forth. When required the user may activate an integrated interface of the messaging calling and one touch payment system. The integrated interface may be displayed over the video output of the device and overlap other applications or pages. The integrated interface may provide for selection activity modes including a messaging mode a calling mode and a one touch payment mode. Through the integrated interface the messaging calling and one touch payment system may receive the selection of the activity mode. If the messaging mode is selected a message from the user may be received and sent to a recipient via a data network. If the calling mode is selected a data network call may be initiated on a call request of the user. If the one touch payment mode is selected a payment request may be transmitted to a financial organization. The payment request may be generated using data of an actual page on the mobile and wearable device and the financial information of the user provided during the registration.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the presented concepts. The presented concepts may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail so as to not unnecessarily obscure the described concepts. While some concepts will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to be limiting.

Various computer implemented methods and systems for messaging calling and one touch payments via a mobile and wearable device are described herein. Expansion of computer networks Internet gave rise to a new type of trade electronic trade while proliferation of mobile devices e.g. cell phones smart phones and other similar devices that are capable of internet communications take electronic trade even further. A customer can shop online from any location using a mobile device. Therefore mobile payment services gain increasing importance. However time consuming payment process providing financial details authorization and other actions may result in a potential buyer changing his mind with respect to a purchase. Accelerated payment procedure may facilitate electronic purchases and stimulate electronic trade.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which systems and methods for messaging calling and one touch payments via a mobile and wearable device can be implemented. The environment may include a user a client device network a messaging calling and one touch payment system . On a user request the messaging calling and one touch payment system may provide an integrated interface on a display of the client device . The client device may include a smart phone a tablet PC a lap top an augmented reality glasses a smart watch and so forth.

Via the integrated interface the user may exchange messages with a recipient make calls and perform one touch payments .

The messages calls and one touch payments are transmitted to the system and further to the recipient or payee not shown via the network using the client device .

The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network may include any suitable number and type of devices e.g. routers and switches for forwarding commands content and or web object requests from each client to the online community application and responses back to the clients.

As shown in the method may commence at operation with providing an integrated interface for selection of an activity mode. The integrated interface may be providing on receiving a request to initiate the integrated interface from the user. To initiate the integrated interface the user may be prompted to provide a password a code a voice command biometric data and so forth.

The activity mode may include a messaging mode a calling mode and a one touch payment mode. The integrated interface may be provided on a user request via a screen of the mobile and wearable device as illustrated by which will be described in detail below . The integrated interface may be integrated with at least one mobile application associated with the mobile and wearable device. For example the integrated interface may be displayed atop other visual output of the mobile and wearable device. When the user desires to send a message call or make a payment the user may select the activity more by touching a specific portion of the integrated interface. Additionally the selection of the activity mode may include a voice command a haptic interaction with a touchscreen a move command and so forth. The selection of the activity mode may be received via the integrated interface at operation .

The system may determine the selected activity mode and perform a corresponding action based on the selection. If the messaging mode is selected the system may provide to the user a messaging interface on the mobile and wearable device at operation . Through the messaging interface a message may be received from the user and sent to a recipient via a data network. The message may include a text an audio a video and geographical data. Additionally messages may be received from other users. The integrated interface may notify the user that one or more messages were received. The user may activate the messaging interface to read and or reply to the messages.

If the calling mode is selected at operation a calling interface may be provided to the user. The user may select a call recipient in his contacts and make a call request. The system may receive the call request from the user. Based on the call request the system may initiate a data network call at operation . The call may include an audio call a video call a holographic video call and so forth. The call may be performed via a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service a free Over the Top OTT service and so forth. The free VoIP service and the free OTT service include voice communication fax text messaging voice messaging video communication and multimedia transmission. In various embodiments the free VoIP service and the free OTT service are provided via Wi Fi 3G network 4G network 5G network 6G network or upper.

If the one touch payment mode is selected a payment request may be transmitted to a financial organization at operation . The financial organization performing the payment may be a bank a credit company a virtual currency system and so forth. The payment request may be generated using data of a mobile application or a page from which the one touch payment mode is activated. For example the user may activate the one touch payment from a purchase page of an online store. The payment may be immediately initiated without requesting further details. Data of a payment recipient and a payment amount may be received from the actual page or application and financial information of the user may be stored in the database of the messaging calling and one touch payment system . The user financial information may be provided by the user during registration with the messaging calling and one touch payment system and may include one or more of the following bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information prepaid card information insurance account information merchant account information mobile currency information digital money and so forth. Online payments can be secured by two factor authorization. One of the factors may be authorization on the integrated interface initiation and the other factor may include locating the mobile and wearable device associated with the user and comparing the location with the location where the payment is requested.

In an example embodiment the one touch payment mode may be used for internet payments. Furthermore the one touch payment mode may be integrated with text messaging hold to talk voice messaging broadcast messaging sharing of photographs and videos and location sharing. The one touch payment mode may be associated with exchanging contacts and payments with users nearby via Bluetooth providing contacting the users at random one touch payment. The one touch payment mode may be associated with social networking services. Additionally the one touch payment mode may have a common interface with a proprietary cross platform instant messaging subscription service for mobile and wearable devices.

In an example embodiment the one touch payment mode may be integrated with a telecommunications application software specializing in providing a video chat a voice call and a conference call from mobile and wearable devices. The one touch payment mode may be compatible with one or more operating systems wherein the one or more operating systems include Microsoft Windows Mac Linux Android Blackberry iOS and Windows Phone. A one touch payment service provided using the one touch payment mode is free. The one touch payment mode may include a freemium mode at which a product or service is provided free of charge but money is charged for proprietary features functionality or virtual goods.

In a further example embodiment the one touch payment mode may be associated with providing the user with an option to make online purchases and offline purchases using a single touch In this case the user uses a predefined address and a predefined payment information for example payment information needed to complete the purchase having been entered by the user previously.

The method may further comprise encrypting by the processor the payment request associated with the one touch payment mode to obtain an encrypted payment request. The encrypted payment request may be decryptable by an ephemeral messaging one touch payment and multimedia application associated with a mobile and wearable device of the recipient. The encrypted payment request may be removed from the mobile and wearable device of the recipient after being read. The method may further comprise receiving by the processor from the user a registration request to register the user in a mobile payment service. The user may send the registration request via a mobile payment application associated with the mobile and wearable device. The mobile payment application may provide at least a free VoIP service and a free Over the Top OTT service. The ephemeral messaging one touch payment and multimedia application may be associated with an application protocol the application protocol being integrated into a communication platform.

In an example embodiment the mobile and wearable device may comprise a band adapted to secure the mobile and wearable device on a human body. The human body may include a wrist an arm a neck a head a leg a waist an ear a finger and any other part of the human body. The band may be adapted to secure the mobile and wearable device under within or on clothing. The band may include a rechargeable battery configured to power the mobile and wearable device.

In a further example embodiment the mobile and wearable device may be configured to act as one or more of the following a mechanical hybrid smart watch a smart watch a digital computing glasses a digital bracelet a mobile internet device a mobile web device a smartphone a tablet computer a wearable computer a calculator watch a smartwatch a head mounted display a personal digital assistant a enterprise digital assistant a calculator a handheld game console a portable media player an ultra mobile personal computer a digital still camera a digital video camera a mobile phone a feature phone a pager and a personal navigation device.

The mobile and wearable device may further comprise one or more haptic control elements to control operation or functions of the mobile and wearable device. Access to the mobile and wearable device may be controlled by one or more of the following a password a Personal Identification Number code and biometric authorization. The biometric authorization may include fingerprint scanning palm scanning face scanning and retina scanning. The scanning may be performed using the one or more biometric sensors. The one or more biometric sensors may include sensors for sensing a command for the one touch payment mode the sensing may be shown on the display. The mobile and wearable device may further comprise a fingerprint reader configured to scan a fingerprint the scanned fingerprint may be matched to one or more approved fingerprints. The access to the mobile and wearable personal digital may be granted based on the matching.

The mobile and wearable device may further include a camera configured to capture one or more barcodes. The one or more barcodes may include electronic key data a link to a web resource a payment request and advertising information. One or more barcodes may include a linear dimensional code a two dimensional code a snap tag code and a QR code and other machine readable code.

The mobile and wearable device may be associated with an electronic payment card configured to act as one or more of a smart card a proximity card an integrated circuit card a magnetic strip card and an electronic payment card. The electronic payment card may store card data of one or more debit cards credit cards gift cards loyalty cards prepaid cards bank cards identity cards and membership cards. The electronic payment card may be configured to attach to the mobile and wearable device.

The mobile and wearable device may be operable to obtain information about a payment system of the user. The mobile and wearable device may be further operable to generate and display a barcode that encodes user payment information. The barcode may be scanned at a checkout counter and processed to retrieve the user payment information from a database of a payment processing system. The user payment information may be used to transfer funds between the user and a merchant.

In a further example embodiment the method may further include scanning the code being present on a one touch QR code invoice. The one touch QR code invoice may be associated with one or more of an invoice a credit note a debit note a pro forma invoice and an advance invoice. The one touch QR code invoice may store one or more of invoice data monetary amount summary product data service data merchant data invoice number and amount to be paid. The one touch payment information may be stored in the mobile and wearable device associated with the user. The user may activate the one touch payment mode by holding the mobile and wearable device near a contactless reader and activating a one touch payment icon on the mobile and wearable device.

If the calling mode is selected the processor may initiate a data network call on a call request of the user. The data network call may be made via a free VoIP service a free Over the Top OTT service and so forth. If the one touch payment mode is selected the processor may transmit a payment request to a financial organization. The payment request may be generated using data of an actual page in view on the mobile and wearable device. Additionally the payment request may include financial data of the user. The financial data of the user may be stored in the database . The payment can be associated with transactional payments based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD or Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing credit card mobile payments online wallets QR code payments contactless near field communication cloud based mobile payments audio signal based payment Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payment in application payment SDK payment API payment social networking payment and direct carrier bank co operation.

Contactless near field communication NFC may be used to receive data for the payment request. For example when the one touch payment mode is selected the user may make a payment for purchases in physical stores or transportation services. The mobile and wearable device may be equipped with a smart card. When a user waves the mobile and wearable device near a radar module a payment is made. In some cases the payment may require authentication. The NFC payment could be deducted from a pre paid account or changed to a mobile or band account directly. NFC payment may include displaying a barcode on the mobile device screen for mobile payment. The payment barcode can include one or more of the following a linear barcode a two dimensional barcode a three dimensional barcode a machine readable code and so forth.

The audio channel of the mobile phone may be another wireless interface that is used to receive data for a payment request. Chip ultra sound and acoustic features of the mobile and wearable device may support mobile payments. Near sound data transfer NDST data over voice and NFC produce audio signatures that the mobile phone can pick up to enable electronic transactions.

In some embodiments a beacon mobile payment sends out a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal to anyone or any device with mobile application to transfer payment data and get electronic receipt. When a customer checks in their picture and name may pop up on the retailer s point of sale system when a sales associate at the store totals a bill on a cash register or a card reading terminal the beacon mobile payment user gives verbal confirmation to the associate who matches the customer with the picture on the POS screen and concludes the transaction.

In some embodiments the system may be associated with one or more of a transactional payment based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data Short Message Service direct operator billing a credit card mobile payment an online wallet a QR code payment contactless near field communication payment a cloud based mobile payment an audio signal based payment a Bluetooth Low Energy signal beacon payment an in application payment a software development kit SDK payment an application programming interface API payment a social networking payment and a direct carrier and bank co operation. wherein the system is compatible with a third party application wherein the system is associated with one or more of an API and an SDK. Additionally the system may be associated with a fingerprint touch recognition payment a fingerprint press recognition payment a gesture mark payment a voice command payment and a eye blink payment a fingerprint swipe recognition payment and a nod payment.

In some embodiments the user may select one of the stored payment accounts to perform a payment. Authentication may be made when the user accesses the system . The authentication may include password authentication voice authentication biometric authentication and so forth.

Furthermore using the system the user may create automatic payments. For example as shown on screen the user may give instructions to transfer 1 to a specific account every week day at 1 25 PM. The system may receive the instructions and automatically perform the payment according to the instructions. After a predefined period for example after one month or every week or every year the system may prompt the user either to prolong the automatic payment or to cancel the payment.

Screen illustrates on request payments made via the system . The user may select to generate a barcode to be scanned from the screen of the device or sent to a payment recipient. Alternatively the user may select a further user from his contact list to transfer a certain amount to the selected user. Additionally money transfer may be performed via Bluetooth.

In some embodiments access to the barcode scanner point of sale system and the mobile and wearable device may be protected by fingerprint scanning.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors a hard disk drive a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may also include a network interface device . The hard disk drive may include a computer readable medium which stores one or more sets of instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors also constitute machine readable media.

While the computer readable medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media. Such media can also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks NAND or NOR flash memory digital video disks RAM ROM and the like.

The exemplary embodiments described herein can be implemented in an operating environment comprising computer executable instructions e.g. software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware. The computer executable instructions can be written in a computer programming language or can be embodied in firmware logic. If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interfaces to a variety of operating systems. Although not limited thereto computer software programs for implementing the present method can be written in any number of suitable programming languages such as for example C C C or other compilers assemblers interpreters or other computer languages or platforms.

Thus various systems and methods for messaging calling and one touch payments via a mobile and wearable device have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

