---

title: Evaluating geographically grouped data sets
abstract: Geographically grouped data sets may be evaluated in order to determine an ROI for different assets. The ROI of an asset may be determined based on one or more accounting items, or on an expense percentage for the asset. The value for each accounting item and the value for the expense percentage may vary depending on the geographic location of the asset. The geographically grouped data sets may be received from a variety of sources, including proprietary databases, user inputs, and third party resources. Results from evaluating the geographically grouped data sets may be used to supplement and/or refine the existing data stored in the proprietary database. A subset of the available data may be used to generate an initial ROI for one or more assets. Initial ROIs may be used to filter and identify assets for more in depth, refined, or resource-intensive analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436949&OS=09436949&RS=09436949
owner: 
number: 09436949
owner_city: Henderson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141224
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 921 384 filed Dec. 27 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 029 926 filed Jul. 28 2014 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of data analytics. More specifically the present invention relates to the analysis of geographically grouped sets.

Investments offer the potential for both immediate and long term profits. One common strategy to profit from investments is through income generated by an asset. Many investors also expect to profit from appreciation in the value of the asset. Nevertheless investments in assets are fraught with risks. For instance real estate tends to be far more illiquid asset than stocks bonds and certificates of deposits CDs and may also be more costly to manage on an ongoing basis.

The rate of return on investment ROI is a key metric that may be used to evaluate and compare assets under consideration for investment. In general ROI measures the gains from an investment relative to the concomitant costs e.g. acquisition maintenance management and may reflect on the profitability or efficiency of the investment. On the one hand a prudent investor may rely on ROI to select between different assets for investment. For example an investor may decide to purchase real estate rather than Treasury bonds if the real estate investment provides a higher ROI. Moreover ROI may be used to choose between specific assets. For example a condominium may have a higher ROI than a nearby townhome and therefore be a more attractive real estate investment property.

Determining an ROI for an asset is very challenging. A considerable number of factors that vary geographically may need to be determined or estimated and analyzed. However reliable geographically specific data tend to be unavailable. Compounding this difficulty is that factors that are applicable to one asset in a particular geographic area may be different or altogether irrelevant for another asset in the same geographic area. Therefore what is needed is a system and method that overcomes these significant problems as described above.

According to various embodiments there is provided a system and a method for analyzing and evaluating assets based on geographically grouped data sets. In one exemplary embodiment calculations may be made to determine an estimated ROI for one or more assets based on the income and expenses associated with each asset. The income and expenses for different assets may vary depending on the geographic location of the asset. The ROIs for different assets may form the basis for meaningful and actionable comparisons between multiple assets.

In various embodiments geographically grouped data sets may be received from or provided by variety of data sources including for example but not limited to a proprietary database user inputs and third party resources. In various embodiments some or all of the user inputs and or data from third party resources may be analyzed such as by applying one or more statistical analysis techniques. For example user inputs and or data from third party resources may be segmented grouped or tagged geographically. At least some of the results of the analysis may be used to supplement and or refine the existing data stored in the proprietary database.

In some embodiments a subset of the available data e.g. data from third party resources may be used to generate an initial ROI for an asset. Advantageously the calculation of an initial ROI may require less computational resources e.g. data time than the calculation of an estimated ROI. Thus initial ROIs may be used to quickly filter a large number of assets and identify those that merit more in depth refined or resource intensive analysis. For example an estimated ROI may be calculated in the event that the initial ROI for an asset exceeds a certain predetermined threshold.

Some or all of the aspects of various the transactions that may be applicable to a specific type or category of assets e.g. purchase sale trade and rental are considered on an asset to asset basis in order to account for all individually variable income and expense items. In addition ROIs may be calculated based on current information which may be acquired and or updated on a continuous dynamic and or on demand basis. Advantageously using current information that is acquired and or updated on demand continuously and or dynamically yields a highly accurate estimated ROI for an asset.

In various embodiments the estimated ROIs for different assets may be compared to generate an ordered or ranked list of potential assets. For example different assets may be ordered or ranked based on their respective estimated ROI. A graphical user interface GUI may be provided in some embodiments to allow users to set up customized searches and comparisons. For example a user may identify filter and or sort potential assets for investment based on location e.g. Las Vegas Nev. and or the estimated ROI e.g. greater than 3 . The user may create a customized search and comparison by entering specific parameters and or selecting one or more pre configured options.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein provide for evaluating geographically grouped data sets. In various embodiments geographically grouped data sets received from a variety of data sources may be evaluated to determine an estimated ROI for one or more assets. The systems and methods disclosed herein also provide for determining an initial ROI for an asset using a subset of the available data. Furthermore the systems and methods disclosed herein provide for displaying customized and interactive comparisons of multiple assets for evaluation by an investor.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may provide investors with information about an asset along with an estimated ROI for the asset. The estimated ROI for the asset may be determined based on a comprehensive assortment of geographically specific data. For example the ROI for an asset may be determined based on a list of accounting items for the asset that may be specific to the geographic location of the asset. The list of accounting items for an asset may include income and expense items. Furthermore the accounting items may include at least some actual or precisely estimated values that are specific to an individual asset. Alternately or in addition the systems and methods disclosed herein may provide investors with an initial ROI for an asset. The initial ROI for an asset may be determined based an expense percentage more generalized or standard values for certain accounting items and or a subset of the comprehensive list of accounting items for the asset.

Other asset specific variables may be used in alternative embodiments. For example in one embodiment the asset is a professional athlete such as a baseball player and the investor is the team owner or management. The professional baseball player has corresponding variables that are geographically specific such as batting average in a specific stadium or batting average at sea level. In an alternative embodiment the asset may be a business such as an educational service franchise and the investor is a potential purchaser of the franchise. The franchise has corresponding variables that are geographically specific such as average income of the families in the region average education of the parents in the region and the number of students in the region that attend private school or go to college after high school. These alternative embodiments are contemplated to be covered by the scope of the present disclosure. However the primary embodiment described herein is an embodiment where the asset is a real estate property with corresponding geographically specific variables.

The generalized or standard values for different assets may vary geographically. Thus the systems and methods disclosed herein may provide a different standard value for the accounting items of assets located in different geographic areas. Furthermore the precision of the standard values applied for an asset may depend on the specificity of the geographic location of the asset. For example according to various embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein a standard value that is generalized over an entire state may be applied for an asset specified to be in that state. On the other hand a more precise standard value for a metro area or city or zip code or block may also be applied if the asset is specified to be in one of those more specific areas.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may perform customized searches for assets based on any number and or combinations of variables also referred to herein as parameters including the estimated ROI and the location of individual assets. For example in one embodiment each asset in an area e.g. zip code neighborhood map zone selected by an investor may be compared based on the respective ROIs.

As will be described in further detail herein different types of geographically grouped data sets from a variety of sources may be evaluated to determine the ROI initial or estimated of an asset. For example the geographically grouped data sets may include various accounting items such as income and expense items relating to the purchase sale maintenance rental and or lease of different assets. In addition the system may also receive information that estimates or may be used to estimate the potential income from each asset including for example but not limited to rental income and appreciation in asset value.

Numerous formulas may be used to determine the potential income and expenses as well as the overall ROI for an asset. In some embodiments the systems and methods disclosed herein may provide an investor with an estimate of the overall expenses e.g. an expense percentage . For example the overall cost of ownership for one asset e.g. a condominium in Las Vegas Nev. may be 40 . Alternately in some embodiments an investor may access detailed income and expense information for an asset and enter customized values for at least some of the individual accounting items e.g. rental value mortgage taxes etc. . In some embodiments the investor may provide override values that replace any existing standard or estimated values. An interactive user interface is provided for potential investors to research available assets for investment and then compare different assets that meet certain user selected criteria.

Investors are provided with an accurate estimated ROI for an asset and the ability to compare the ROI with those of other assets. This information may be used to provide suggestions that may facilitate and optimize the selection of real estate investments.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. However although various embodiments of the present invention will be described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

As shown in the investor device may communicate with the analysis server via a network . The network may be a wired and or wireless network. In various embodiments the investor device may communicate with the analysis server in order to research analyze and identify various assets for investment. For instance the investor device may be configured to transmit various customized and or preconfigured inquiries to the analysis server .

Meanwhile the analysis server may process inquiries from the investor device and provide the results to the investor device via the network . The analysis server may receive data on various assets and perform different calculations to determine an ROI for individual assets. The analysis server may communicate with a first database which stores for example but not limited to asset data results of calculations investor profiles user interfaces and computer executable programs that may run on the analysis server .

In various embodiments the analysis server may communicate with an asset data server in order to access at least some of the data stored by the asset data server in a second database . For example the second database may contain the estimated projected historical and or actual sale prices of different assets. The analysis server may obtain at least a portion of the data used to calculate the expense percentage income and expenses items and or the ROI of an asset from the asset data server . In some embodiments the asset data server may be hosted by one or more data collection services including for example but not limited to the Multiple Listing Service MLS Craigslist or Zillow . For clarity and convenience the analysis server is shown in to communicate with a single asset data server . However a person having ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the analysis server may communicate and obtain data from any appropriate required or desired number of asset data servers in addition to or instead of the asset data server without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In various embodiments the analysis server may also include an income and expense module . The income and expense module may be configured to process the asset data obtained by the data collection module . The income and expense module may process asset data in order to determine the accounting items for individual and or groups of assets. In various embodiments the income and expense module may process the asset data to determine the accounting items that may be applicable to assets in a particular geographic region. For example the income and expense module may apply various statistical analysis techniques to at least some of the data obtained by the data collection module and compute for example the HOA fees for an asset in a particular city e.g. 2600 W. Harmon Avenue 28034 Las Vegas Nev. 89158 . Alternately or in addition the income and expense module may determine the average HOA fees for similar types of assets in that same city e.g. condominiums in Las Vegas Nev. .

The income and expense module may also use at least some of the data obtained by the data collection module to determine an overall expense percentage for various assets. For example the income and expense module may determine that the average expense percentage for a certain type of asset in a particular geographic region e.g. condominiums in Las Vegas Nev. is 50 . At least some of the values for the accounting items and or expense percentages determined for different assets may be stored in the first database .

As shown in the analysis server may further include a return on investment ROI calculation module . The ROI calculation module may be configured to calculate the ROI for different assets using the accounting items and or expense percentages determined by the income and expense module . In some embodiments the ROI calculation module may determine an estimated ROI for an asset. Alternately or in addition the ROI calculation module may calculate an initial ROI for an asset. For example the ROI calculation module may calculate the estimated ROI for an asset based on a comprehensive list of accounting items for the asset. Meanwhile the ROI calculation module may calculate an initial ROI for the asset using at least some standard values and or an expense percentage for similar assets located in the same geographic region. At least some of the ROIs calculated for different assets may be stored in the first database .

Finally a user interface module may be provided to organize all of the received data and calculated data into various graphical user interfaces GUIs for display to an investor on the investor device .

At the analysis server may receive a first inquiry. For example the analysis server may receive from the investor device a first inquiry to calculate the ROI of a first asset. Alternately an investor may input a first inquiry for assets having certain characteristics and or meeting one or more criteria. The analysis server may identify at least a first asset based on the first inquiry. In some embodiments the first inquiry may pertain to a first asset that is a real estate investment property.

At in response to the first inquiry the analysis server may receive data. In various embodiments the analysis server may be configured to receive data from a variety of sources including for example but not limited to the investor device the first database and the asset data server . For example when the first inquiry pertains to a real estate investment property the analysis server may receive at least a portion of the data from an asset data server that is affiliated with or operated by one or more real estate data collection services e.g. MLS Craigslist and Zillow .

The analysis server may also receive some data from inputs made by an investor through the investor device . For example in some embodiments an investor may input values for certain expense or income items of the first asset e.g. mortgage utilities based on personal knowledge.

Furthermore the analysis server may be configured to receive any number and or types of asset data. For example the analysis server may receive data for the real estate investment property that includes for example but not limited to address neighborhood zip code HOA year built square footage number of bedrooms and bathrooms rental price sale price lease date and lease price of a current lease number of days on the market taxes liens previous sale price previous rent price estimate sale value and estimate monthly rent value. In various embodiments the analysis server may additionally receive various types of data for assets that are similar or comparable to the first asset.

At the analysis server may compute income and or expense items for the first asset based on the data received at . For instance the accounting items for a real estate investment property may include for example but not limited to repair costs cash for keys utilities liens homeowners association assessments taxes and rental income. In an alternative embodiment income may include production such as the production of a professional athlete. In various embodiments the analysis server may analyze the data received at to compute the accounting items for the first asset. For example the accounting items for the first asset may be computed using the data that is specific to the first asset and or data for similar and or comparable assets. In various embodiments the accounting items for the first asset may be specific to the geographic location of the first asset.

At the analysis server may generate an ROI for the first asset. For example the ROI for the first asset may be determined based on the accounting items for the first asset. At the analysis server may store at least a portion of the data for the first asset. In various embodiments the analysis server may store data for the first asset in the first database . For example the analysis server may be configured to store one or more of the asset characteristics income and expenses and ROI for the first asset.

At the analysis server may receive a second inquiry. The second inquiry may originate from the same or a different investor via the investor device or another device similar to the investor device . In various embodiments the second inquiry may be to determine the ROI for a second asset. Alternately the second inquiry may be to identify at least a second asset having certain characteristics and or meeting one or more criteria.

At the analysis server may determine the ROI for a second asset in response to the second inquiry based at least in part on the data for the first asset stored at . For example the first asset and the second asset may be similar and or comparable real estate investment properties located in the same geographic region. As such the analysis server may use at least some of the accounting items e.g. rental value HOA fees and utilities determined for the first asset to estimate the accounting items for the second asset.

The formula illustrated in are for exemplary purposes only. A person having ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the analysis server may apply a similar or a different formula in order to estimate the ROI for different rental properties without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the analysis server may apply a similar or a different formula to estimate the ROI for other types or categories of assets which may include additional and or different accounting items that are not included in the formula .

In various embodiments the analysis server provides a GUI that allows an investor to customize adjust or otherwise provide one or more accounting items that may be applicable to various assets. Additionally certain expense items may be adjustable by an investor via the investor device or automatically by the analysis server to account for annual inflation or market rates. In addition to presenting the ROI to an investor via the investor device the ROI of at least some assets may be stored in the first database .

In various embodiments an investor may interact with the analysis server including by submitting inquiries to the analysis server e.g. operations and of the process described with respect to . One type of inquiry may include desirable characteristics and or criteria of assets for potential investment. For example an investor may submit an inquiry to the analysis server that specifies desired features for real estate investment properties that include for example but not limited to location size number of rooms sale price and rental value. The analysis server may identify assets having the desirable characteristics and or matching the criteria specified in the inquiry. The results may be displayed to the investor on the investor device via a GUI.

In various embodiments the inquiry from the investor may specify a desired value or range for the ROI. The analysis server may calculate an ROI for one or more assets in order to identify assets that have the desired ROI. In one embodiment the analysis server may first calculate an initial ROI for each of a large number of assets in order to quickly filter and pinpoint assets that have approximately the desired ROI. Once the analysis server filters a large number of assets based on initial ROIs the analysis server may calculate an estimated ROI for the remaining assets. The estimated ROI may be a more exact value but may require more computational resources e.g. data time . Thus the analysis server may expedite the response to certain inquiries by first calculating initial ROIs for one set of assets then calculating an estimated ROI for each of the remaining subset of assets.

Another type of inquiry may be a request from an investor to calculate an ROI initial or estimated for a specific asset. The analysis server may respond to such inquiries by calculating the ROI based on data received from or provided by a variety of sources. In various embodiments the analysis server may calculate the ROI for the specific asset based on data for the asset received from the asset data server which may be hosted by one or more data collection services. For example the analysis server may respond an inquiry to calculate the ROI of a real estate investment property by receiving data from sources that include for example but not limited to the Multiple Listing Service MLS Craigslist or Zillow . In various embodiments the analysis server may be configured to receive data from the asset data server in real time or on demand.

The analysis server may also use data input by the investor via the investor device in calculating the ROI for a specific asset. For example the investor may provide values for certain accounting items for a real estate investment property based on personal knowledge. In various embodiments the analysis server may be configured to store the data input by the investor in the first database . Additionally the analysis server may also use data already stored in the first database to calculate the ROI for the specific asset.

In various embodiments the analysis server may be configured to update refine and or add data to the first database continuously on demand or according to a predetermined schedule e.g. daily weekly . For example the analysis server may receive data on the specific asset from the asset data server and or an investor via the investor device . The analysis server may determine the accounting items associated with the asset and also compute an ROI for the asset. At least some of the data associated with the asset e.g. property data income and expenses ROI may be stored in the first database and may be used for in response to future inquiries for similar or comparable assets located in the same geographic region. Thus to calculate the ROI for a specific asset the analysis server may use data that have been received and or calculated for one or more other assets. Moreover the analysis server may also store and later use the data that is received and or calculated for a specific asset to respond to queries with respect to one or more other assets.

As shown in the fixed expenses of a real estate investment property may include the estimated repairs cash for keys inspection fees liens escrow title attorney fees and state transfer tax for the property. Meanwhile the recurring expenses for the real estate investment property may include the annual HOA property tax pool maintenance vacancy rate management fees assessments insurance occupied and vacant utilities and reserves for the property. Individual items in the fixed expenses and the recurring expenses of the real estate investment property may vary depending on the geographic location of the property. A person of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a different set of fixed and recurring expenses may be used to calculate the ROI of a real estate investment property without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition a person of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a same similar or different set of fixed and or recurring expenses may be used to calculate an ROI for other types or categories of assets.

In various embodiments by selecting to calculate the ROI based on detailed expenses the investor may be able to enter custom or personalized values for one or more of the items included in the fixed expenses and recurring expenses of an asset. Alternately the investor may select standard values provided by the analysis server for any one of the items included in the fixed expenses and recurring expenses of the asset. The investor may also use one or more estimated values from data received by the analysis server from the asset data server . In some embodiments the investor may provide override values to replace any of the standard values provided by the analysis server and the estimated values that the analysis server receives from the asset data server . In various embodiments the standard values provided by the analysis server are generated based at least in part on values one or more investors have provided to the analysis server over time. Furthermore the standard values provided by the analysis server may vary depending on the geographic location of the asset and or the size or scale of the specified geographic location.

The analysis server may analyze inputs from various investors in order to determine and to refine standard values for each of at least some of the items included in the fixed expenses and recurring expenses for an asset. In various embodiments the standard values for the items may be geographically specific. For example the analysis server may segment group or tag data received from different investors based on the geographic locations of the corresponding assets. Furthermore the precision or granularity of the standard values may vary according to the size or scale of the specified geographic region. For example one investor may be knowledgeable with regards to repair costs. That investor may be able to input custom or personal values for the estimated repairs of a real estate investment property in a particular geographic location. Alternately that investor may input override values in place of the standard values for the estimated repairs provided by the analysis server . Meanwhile the analysis server may process and or store the values input by knowledgeable investors such that these values may be used to refine the standard values offered to a less knowledgeable investor. For example the values input by the knowledgeable investor may be used to compute the standard value for the estimated repairs of other real estate investment properties located in the same specific neighborhood city county and or state.

Another investor having little to no insight with respect to repair costs may use the standard value for the estimated repairs provided by the analysis server . In various embodiments the analysis server may provide standard values based on different characteristics and or criteria associated with the asset such as geographic location. For example the analysis server may provide one standard value for the estimated repairs for real estate investment properties located in Las Vegas Nev. and different standard value for the estimated repairs for properties located in Reno Nev. In addition the analysis server may provide a more precise or granular standard value for the estimated repairs for real estate investment properties specified to be in Las Vegas Nev. than for real estate investment properties that are specified to be in Nevada.

In various embodiments the calculation of the ROI may account for the mortgage information and expenses of an asset. As shown in the mortgage information and expenses for a real estate investment property may include a down payment percentage loan terms interest rate lender s title insurance loan origination fee and appraisal fee. In various embodiments an investor may enter custom or personal values for any of the items included in the mortgage information and expenses of a real estate investment property. Alternately or in addition the analysis server may provide standard values for at least some of the items included in the mortgage information and expenses for the real estate investment property. The investor may also use one or more estimated values from data received by the analysis server from the asset data server . In some embodiments the investor may provide override values to replace any of the standard values for the mortgage information and expenses provided by the analysis server as well as any of the estimated values that the analysis server receives from the asset data server . A person of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that mortgage information and expenses may include a different set of items without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the mortgage information and expenses for different types or categories of assets may include the same similar or different set of items as the mortgage information and expenses .

In various embodiments the analysis server may compute the ROI based on a purchase price e.g. a Zestimate a rental value e.g. a rent Zestimate and an expense percentage . The analysis server may obtain the purchase price and rental value for the property from the asset data server . For example in some embodiments the asset data server may be hosted by one or more real estate data collection services including for example but not limited to the Multiple Listing Service MLS Craigslist or Zillow .

In various embodiments the analysis server may further provide a standard value for the expense percentage . For example the analysis server may determine a standard value for the expense percentage based on past inputs from investors and or data from the asset data server . In various embodiments the analysis server may provide different standard values for the expense percentage depending on the geographic location of the asset. Alternately in some embodiments an investor may provide a custom or personal value for the expense percentage . In those embodiments the investor s custom or personal value may be an override value that replaces the standard value for the expense percentage provided by the asset analysis server .

For example the investor may perform a search for single story homes in zip code 89052 that have an estimated ROI of at least six percent. The investor can then compare these results with the results of a second search for two story homes in 89052 with an estimated ROI of six percent. The data comparison screen may represent or the outcome using any appropriate desired or required info graphics. For example the data comparison screen may include a comparison chart showing a bar graph with the number of real estate investment properties yielded from each search.

In one exemplary embodiment the analysis server may optimize the search process for a real estate investment property by evaluating geographically grouped data sets. The analysis server may compute an estimated ROI for one or more real estate investment properties using geographically specific data for one or more individual accounting items or an overall expense percentage that may vary depending on the geographic location of the property. Alternately or in addition the analysis server may be configured to use a minimal set of data to generate an initial ROI. Since calculating an initial ROI requires comparatively less or minimal computation resources e.g. data time the analysis server may be able to process a large number of potential real estate investment properties. Instead of expending extensive computational resources to determine an estimated ROI for each property the initial ROIs may be used to quickly filter and reduce the number of potential real estate investment properties.

For example an initial ROI for a rental property may be obtained using only an estimated sales price and an estimated rental value in combination with a standard expense percentage that is derived from aggregate data in the first database . This aggregate data may include precise and detailed information that were previously obtained e.g. inputs from investors for other real estate investment properties that are similar or comparable and are located in the same geographic region. For example the analysis server may obtain and aggregate data on for example but not limited to vacancy rates repairs liens HOA fees reserves replacements management fees taxes insurance pool maintenance utilities and acquisition costs.

In one embodiment the initial ROI for a rental property may be calculated by converting an estimated monthly rental value into an annual rental value and subtracting the standard expense factor i.e. expense percentage to determine an annual net rental value. The annual net rental value may be divided by the standard expense factor to determine the initial ROI.

In another embodiment the analysis server permits an investor to provide his or her own customized or personal value i.e. override value for the expense percentage. The investor may wish to calculate the ROI for a real estate investment property based on detailed expenses and provide customize or personal values for at least some of the accounting items e.g. fixed expenses recurring expenses associated with the property. For example the investor may provide values for one or more income an expense items e.g. property taxes HOA fees repairs pool maintenance based on personal knowledge. In some embodiments the investor may use custom or personal values in order to derive an expense percentage that is more reflective of the investor s actual circumstances. In such an embodiment the initial ROI may be calculated in substantially the same manner but using an expense percentage tailored to the investor s custom or personal data. In some embodiments the customized or personal values may be override values to replace any of the standard values provided by the analysis server and the estimated values that the analysis server receives from the asset data server with respect to the expense percentage or any of the accounting items that contribute to the expense percentage.

Additionally on a property by property basis the investor may provide an estimated sale price for the specific property and an estimated monthly rent amount for the specific property. For example the estimated sale price for a rental property according to a third party resource e.g. Zillow may be higher or lower than the price actually anticipated by the investor. Thus the investor may provide an override value in place of the estimated sale price provided by the third party source. The investor may also provide override values for any of the accounting items for a property rather than rely on standard values provided by the analysis server . For example if an investor expects to manage his or her own investment properties then the investor may provide an override value for the management cost to determine the ROI of one or more potential investment properties. In various embodiments the analysis server may receive and store at least some of the override values provided by an investor. The override values may be segmented grouped or tagged based on the geographic location of the real estate investment property and may be used in future computations involving similar or comparable properties in the same geographic region.

In various embodiments the expense items contributing to the expense percentage may include recurring expense items. Recurring expense items may include for example but not limited to 

In various embodiments the analysis server may analyze data on a specific property to determine whether the property had certain characteristics e.g. a swimming pool that would require the inclusion of additional expense items.

In an alternative embodiment the analysis server provides an investor the option to customize the annualized purchase cost for an investment property purchased through financing. The analysis server may provide standard or predetermined values for one or more mortgage expense items such as down payment interest rate and term. Alternately or in addition the analysis server may receive override values for any of the standard or predetermined values for the mortgage expense items.

The table below illustrates an example in which data from a variety of sources may be used to determine the ROI for a real estate investment property. For example in the table below the sales price and the monthly rent for the property are provided by the asset data server e.g. Zillow . Meanwhile the remaining accounting items for the property may be a combination of standard values calculated by the analysis server based on historical data e.g. previously received data from the asset data server and or user inputs and customized or personal values e.g. override values provided by an investor.

For clarity and convenience the systems and methods disclosed herein was described with respect to real estate investment properties. However a person of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the evaluation of geographically grouped data sets may be applied to the analysis of other types of categories of assets for investment including for example but not limited to local and regional businesses sporting facilities and professional athletes travel or short term accommodations e.g. hotels and land development sites.

Referring back to in one embodiment implemented via a global computer network e.g. the Internet an investor operates the investor device and is communicatively coupled with the analysis server via the network . The investor device may also be communicatively coupled with the asset data server via the network . The analysis server is communicatively coupled with the asset data server via the network .

In some embodiments the asset data server may be affiliated with operated and or maintained by a third party service e.g. Zillow . The analysis server includes programmed modules in its data storage area and these modules alone or in combination implement one or more application programming interfaces to the asset data server that are designed to obtain information about individual assets.

In operation the investor operates the investor device to access the analysis server which provides a user interface to the investor device . The user interface allows the investor to search for and identify specific assets that the investor is interested in learning more about. Upon receiving a selection of one or more specific assets from the investor device the analysis server uses the one or more application programming interface modules to obtain information from the asset data server about each of the one or more assets. This information is then presented on the display of the investor device with appropriate designations regarding the source of the data.

Additionally the analysis server may use partial and or more generalized information about a specific asset to calculate an initial ROI for the asset. Advantageously even though the initial ROI may be less precise than the more robust estimated ROI typically provided by the analysis server the initial ROI may be used to filter a large number of assets so that the more time consuming and accurate estimated ROI may be subsequently computed for those assets that are the most promising or the most desirable. Calculating the initial ROI may significantly reduce the expenditure of computational resources e.g. time data .

In this embodiment although the specific information about an asset may be unknown the analysis server may substitute standard values for one or more accounting items or the expense percentage used to determine an initial and or an estimated ROI for the asset.

The device preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor .

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the device . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

Device preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor . The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include an internal memory and or a removable medium for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive etc. The removable medium is read from and or written to in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD SD card etc.

The removable storage medium is a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the device for execution by the processor .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the device . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage media and communication interface which allow software and data to be transferred from an external medium to the device .

Device may also include an input output I O interface . The I O interface facilitates input from and output to external devices. For example the I O interface may receive input from a keyboard or mouse and may provide output to a display. The I O interface is capable of facilitating input from and output to various alternative types of human interface and machine interface devices alike.

Device may also include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between device and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to device from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a modem a network interface card NIC a wireless data card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card an infrared interface and an IEEE 1394 fire wire just to name a few.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . In one embodiment the communication channel may be a wired or wireless network or any variety of other communication links. Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the device to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any non transitory computer readable storage media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the device . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including internal memory removable medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These non transitory computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the device .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into the device by way of removable medium I O interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the device in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

The device also includes optional wireless communication components that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and over a data network. The wireless communication components comprise an antenna system a radio system and a baseband system . In the device radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communicate over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to a speaker. The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from a microphone. These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the processor . The central processing unit has access to data storage areas and . The central processing unit is preferably configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the memory or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or in secondary memory or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the device to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described. For example data storage areas may include various software modules not shown that are executable by processor .

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly not limited.

