---

title: Person-based information aggregation
abstract: Techniques are described for aggregating person-based information on a computing device. The computing device includes a display device and one or more processors. The processors are configured to determine a context of the computing device, and identify a contact associated with the currently-executing application and a plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact. The processors are configured to receive, from two or more different sources and based on at least one contact, information associated with the contact that includes a respective portion of information received from each of the different sources, determine, based on the context of the computing device, a respective priority value for each of the portions of the information, select, based on the respective priority value, one or more portions of the information, and output, for display, a graphical user interface including at least the selected one or more portions of the information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104768&OS=09104768&RS=09104768
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09104768
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140402
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 763 200 filed Feb. 8 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 714 669 filed Oct. 16 2012 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

As smartphones tablets and other mobile computing devices become more powerful and more common applications for these computerized devices are becoming more widely available. Many smartphones and tablet computers are associated with virtual application stores or markets and are often provided with several applications offering a set of functions. For example a user may install a social networking application an email application and or a calendar application on the mobile computing device. Each application may provide a different set of information and or functionality to the user of the mobile computing device and each may provide information associated with a particular person location or event. As the number of available mobile applications increases the number of sources that may be accessed by the user to view the information associated with a particular person location or event also increases which may make it increasingly difficult for the user to organize and view such information.

In one example a method includes determining by a computing device a context of the computing device the context of the computing device including a currently executing application and identifying by the computing device and based on the context of the computing device a contact associated with the currently executing application and a plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact. The method may further include receiving by the computing device from two or more different sources and based on at least one contact identifier from the plurality of contact identifiers information associated with the contact wherein the information includes a respective portion of information received from each of the two or more different sources and wherein the information associated with the contact includes information other than the plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact and determining by the computing device and based on the context of the computing device a respective priority value for each of the portions of the information. The method may further include selecting by the computing device and based on the respective priority value one or more portions of the information and outputting by the computing device and for display a graphical user interface including at least the selected one or more portions of the information.

In another example a computer readable storage medium is encoded with instructions that when executed cause one or more processors of a computing device to determine a context of the computing device the context of the computing device including a currently executing application and identify based on the context of the computing device a contact associated with the currently executing application and a plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact. The instructions may also cause the one or more processors of the computing device to receive from two or more different sources and based on at least one contact identifier from the plurality of contact identifiers information associated with the contact wherein the information includes a respective portion of information received from each of the two or more different sources and wherein the information associated with the contact includes information other than the plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact and determine based on the context of the computing device a respective priority value for each of the portions of the information. The instructions may also cause the one or more processors of the computing device to select based on the respective priority value one or more portions of the information and output for display a graphical user interface including at least the selected one or more portions of the information.

In another embodiment the disclosure is directed to a computing device comprising a display device and one or more processors. The one or more processors are configured to determine a context of the computing device the context of the computing device including a currently executing application identify based on the context of the computing device a contact associated with the currently executing application and a plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact and receive from two or more different sources and based on at least one contact identifier from the plurality of contact identifiers information associated with the contact wherein the information includes a respective portion of information received from each of the two or more different sources and wherein the information associated with the contact includes information other than the plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact. The one or more processors may be further configured to determine based on the context of the computing device a respective priority value for each of the portions of the information select based on the respective priority value one or more portions of the information and output for display a graphical user interface including at least the selected one or more portions of the information.

The details of one or more examples of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In general this disclosure is directed to techniques for aggregating and presenting information associated with a contact e.g. a person a business etc. that is identified by a computing device based on a context of the computing device. For example the context of the computing device may include an application currently executing at the computing device the location of the computing device a current time scheduled events etc. In determining the context of the computing device the computing device may determine that a contact and related contact identifier e.g. name telephone number address email address user account information instant messaging username or other identifying information associated with a contact is included within or otherwise associated with information displayed at a screen of the computing device. Based on the determined contact the computing device may identify various other contact identifiers associated with the contact such as phone numbers names addresses email addresses instant messaging handles etc. Using the various contact identifiers the computing device may retrieve additional information associated with the contact from multiple sources by for example searching for information that corresponds to any one of the contact identifiers and by accessing social networking instant messaging email and other services.

In this way a computing device configured in accordance with techniques of the disclosure can retrieve and aggregate information associated with the contact and associated with a context of the computing device from a variety of sources using various different contact identifiers. Techniques of this disclosure may also enable a computing device to automatically display information associated with a specific person and retrieved from various sources based on a current context of the computing device. By automatically aggregating and presenting this information techniques of the disclosure may relieve a user from searching through various sources for information related to an email phone call text message social network post map or other information currently displayed by a computing device. In this manner the computing device may automatically aggregate and display the contact specific information at a time when the information may be relevant and useful to the user.

In some examples UI device is configured to receive tactile audio or visual input. UI device as shown in may include a touch sensitive and or presence sensitive display or any other type of device for receiving input. UI device may output content such as graphical user interface GUI for display. In the example of UI device may be a presence sensitive display that can display a graphical user interface and receive input from user using capacitive inductive and or optical detection at or near the presence sensitive display.

UI module may perform one or more functions to receive input such as user input or network data and send such input to other components associated with computing device such as aggregation module . For example UI module may determine input such as a gesture performed by user at UI device . UI module may also receive data from components associated with computing device such as aggregation module . Using the data UI module may cause other components associated with computing device such as UI device to provide output based on the data. For instance UI module may receive data from aggregation module that causes UI device to display GUI .

UI module may be implemented in various ways. For example UI module may be implemented as a downloadable or pre installed application. In another example UI module may be implemented as part of a hardware unit of computing device . In another example UI module may be implemented as part of an operating system of computing device .

Aggregation module may include functionality to perform any variety of operations on computing device . For instance aggregation module may include functionality to identify a context of the computing device a contact and contact identifiers associated with the contact and to aggregate information about the contact in accordance with techniques described herein. Aggregation module may be implemented in various ways. For example aggregation module may be implemented as a downloadable or pre installed application or application. In another example aggregation module may be implemented as part of a hardware unit of computing device . In another example aggregation module may be implemented as part of an operating system of computing device .

Aggregation module may receive data from components associated with computing device such as UI module . For instance aggregation module may receive user input data from UI module that causes aggregation module to determine a contact e.g. a person a business an organization or other entity . User input data from UI module may also cause aggregation module to determine the contact from the action represented by the input data such as replying to an email. Aggregation module may also send data to other components of computing device . For instance aggregation module may send an inquiry for information based on the contact to application modules . Aggregation module may also send data to components associated with computing device such as UI module . For instance aggregation module may send the contact or associated contact identifiers determined from the data to UI module that causes UI device to display the data at GUI .

Application modules A N collectively application modules may include functionality to perform any variety of operations. Application modules may execute functions for a specific application such as a text application photo viewer social networking service video application email application word processor spreadsheet web browser multimedia player server application image capture application audio application etc. In various instances aggregation module and one or more of applications modules may exchange data. For example aggregation module may send a request for data to one of application modules associated with a contact e.g. application module A . In response application module A retrieves information based on the request and sends the retrieved information to aggregation module . In general each of application modules may retrieve information based on the request and send any identified information to aggregation module that is associated with the contact.

As shown in GUI may be a user interface generated by UI module that allows user to interact with computing device . GUI may include graphical content such as text images a group of moving images etc. As shown in graphical content may include the aggregated information received from aggregation module . The information may be grouped together based on the context of the computing device. In some examples the information may be displayed within GUI as a visual notification such as notifications and . Each notification may include at least a portion of the retrieved information. GUI may also include an indication of the application currently executing at computing device e.g. application indication . Aggregation module may determine a context of a computing device. For example aggregation module may determine the context of computing device by determining which application is currently executing at computing device the location of the device the current date and time etc. To identify the currently executing application aggregation module may monitor all processes currently executing at computing device . Aggregation module may identify the application based on the process name file name or file path of the application associated with the executing process.

In some examples aggregation module may monitor function calls generated by currently executing application e.g. one or more of applications . The function calls may indicate resources of the computing device that each application is attempting to use thereby determining which applications if any are accessing application programming interfaces APIs for generating or updating a graphical user interface. The application request for a user interface related API may indicate that the particular application is the application currently generating the user interface for output at UI device of computing device e.g. the currently executing application .

Aggregation module may receive information from one or more sensors communication units or other elements of computing device and based on the received information determine a location of computing device . For example computing device may communicate with a remote computing system or service provider using a network communication element. In this example computing device may determine its location by using cellular tower triangulation. In another example computing device may determine the location based on a global positioning system GPS signal received at a GPS radio of computing device .

In response to identifying the context of computing device aggregation module may identify a contact based on the context of computing device including information about the application currently executed by computing device . A contact may be a person business event location landmark or other entity. Aggregation module may identify the contact by locating contact identification information based on information about the application including the type of the application. Various applications such as email text message game calendar social networking application photo video telephone etc. may contain different information about a contact. For example email applications may include email messages and an email address as the contact identifier while a social networking applications may include contact information for users of the social networking service associated with a social network of a user. Further different types of applications may refer to the same contact differently. For example and email application may identify an email address as the contact but a telephone application may identify a telephone number for the same contact.

In some examples aggregation module may search for information for a specific contact by identifying contact identifiers associated with the specific contact. Contact identifiers may include alternative references to the contact such as names nicknames phone numbers user names email addresses account names social networking names addresses etc. Aggregation module may include a request for additional contact identifiers within a request for information that aggregation module may send to each application and service. Aggregation module may use the contact identifiers provided by the applications and services to retrieve additional information associated with the contact from different applications and services such that aggregation module may retrieve additional information about a particular contact that may otherwise not be available to aggregation module .

Computing device may execute one of application modules such as a text message application. As shown in user may respond to a text message from Tanja. Responsive to aggregation module identifying that the text message application is currently executing aggregation module may identify Tanja as a contact based on the sender of the text message. Aggregation module may identify alternative contact information for Tanja such as a social networking username a phone number an email address etc. by sending a request for information associated with the contact to one or more of application modules . Each application module that receives a request may retrieve data that is associated with the contact and that is maintained by the respective application module . In some examples aggregation module may receive information associated with the contact from a plurality of different sources. For example one or more of application modules may retrieve information from a cloud service or other computing systems accessible using a network e.g. a cellular network a data network etc. as well as from a data repository of computing device .

Aggregation module may also generate a request for information based on Tanja all associated contact identifiers associated with Tanja including the additional contact identifiers received in response to the request for information sent to application modules and send the request to one or more of application modules . Application modules may identify information associated with any of the contact identifiers for Tanja. For example one of application modules e.g. application module A may be a social networking service. Application module A may identify the content of social network service notification that identifies a recent social network service post associated with Tanja. As another example a text message application may identifier additional text messages as shown by text message notification originating from Tanja based on by her telephone number. Similarly an email application may identifier one or more email messages associated with Tanja as shown by email message notification from an email account identified by an email address associated with Tanja as identified by an email address. In general aggregation module may receive the information from the various application modules and output the information to UI module for inclusion within GUI .

Techniques of this disclosure may enable a computing device to automatically display information associated with a specific person and retrieved from various sources based on a current context of the computing device. By automatically aggregating and presenting this information techniques of the disclosure may relieve a user from searching through various sources for information related to an email phone call text message social network post map or other information currently displayed by a computing device. In this manner the computing device may automatically aggregate and display the person specific information at a time when the information may be relevant and useful to the user.

As shown in the specific example of computing device includes one or more processors one or more input devices one or more communication units one or more output devices one or more storage devices and user interface UI device . Although shown in as a stand alone computing device for purposes of example a computing device may be any component or system that includes a processor or other suitable computing environment for executing software instructions and for example need not include presence sensitive display . Computing device in one example further includes UI module aggregation module including context module contact identification module information module and rating module and operating system that are executable by computing device . Each of components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications. In some examples communication channels may include a system bus a network connection an inter process communication data structure or any other method for communicating data. As one example in components and may be coupled by one or more communication channels . UI module and aggregation module including context module and contact identification module may also communicate information with one another as well as with other components in computing device such as applications modules .

Processors in one example are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in storage device . Examples of processors may include any one or more of a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or equivalent discrete or integrated logic circuitry.

One or more storage devices may be configured to store information within computing device during operation. Storage device in some examples is described as a computer readable storage medium. In some examples storage device is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of storage device is not long term storage. Storage device in some examples is described as a volatile memory meaning that storage device does not maintain stored contents when the computer is turned off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples storage device is used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Storage device in one example is used by software or applications running on computing device e.g. aggregation module to temporarily store information during program execution.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than volatile memory. Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

Computing device in some examples also includes one or more communication units . Computing device in one example utilizes communication unit to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Communication unit may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios computing devices as well as Universal Serial Bus USB . In some examples computing device utilizes communication unit to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as a server.

Computing device in one example also includes one or more input devices . Input device in some examples is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio or video feedback. Examples of input device include a presence sensitive display a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive display includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices may also be included in computing device . Output device in some examples is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli. Output device in one example includes a presence sensitive display a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user. In some examples UI device may include functionality of input device and or output device . In the example of UI device may be a touch sensitive screen.

Computing device may include operating system . Operating system in some examples controls the operation of components of computing device . For example operating system in one example facilitates the communication of UI module and or aggregation module with processors communication unit storage device input device and output device . UI module and aggregation module may each include program instructions and or data that are executable by computing device . As one example UI module may include instructions that cause computing device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

Computing device may store application data in application store . Application data may include contact data and contact identifiers. Other data may include account information. In some examples application data may also include data received or created by the respective application associated with application data such as communications objects contacts application settings etc.

Aggregation data may store contact information identified using techniques of this disclosure. For example aggregations data may store contact identifiers associated with the contact identified in a specific context of computing device . Aggregation module may access the data stored in aggregation data such as identified contact identifiers associated with contacts. Aggregation data may also include previously aggregated information stored in association with computing device context data and the contact at a different time for aggregating information.

Computing device can include additional components that for clarity are not shown in . For example computing device can include a battery to provide power to the components of computing device . Similarly the components of computing device shown in may not be necessary in every example of computing device . For example in some configurations computing device may not include communication unit .

Computing device may execute an application that includes contact information within a GUI such as GUI of . In some examples context module may identify the application currently executing by computing device . For example aggregation module may cause context module to identify the currently executing application and associated operations to identify a context of computing device and facilitate identification of a contact associated with the context. In response to identifying the currently executing application aggregation module may cause contact identification module to identify the contact identified by the executing application. In response to identifying the contact contact identification module may automatically perform operations to identify other contact identifiers associated with the contact.

Contact identification module may send a request to application modules for other contact identifiers associated with the identified contact. Contact identification module may also send a request to application modules for information about the contact and any contact identifiers identified by application modules that are associated with the contact. For example application modules may retrieve stored data from application data which stores data for each of the respective applications at computing device . In other examples in response to the request for data by contact identification module one or more of application modules may communicate with a remote computing system associated with the respective application. The request for data or information may include association of the contact and the contact identifiers including associated application data from application modules .

The respective one of application modules may send the request for contact associated information including contact identifiers and application data associated with the located contact associated information to communication unit . Communication unit may send the request to the network of the associated computing system. The computing system associated with the application may then perform one or more operations to retrieve the information including contact identifiers associated with the contact information associated with the contact and associated contact identifiers and application data associated with the information. In response to retrieving contact data and contact identifier data the computing system associated with the application may send the data to the respective application of computing device associated with the computing system. The application may then send the information to contact identification module .

In response to receiving the information aggregation module may send the received information to information module to group the received information associated with the application and context of the information such as associated application executed date and time of execution and contact data together to create the notification. Information module may then send the formatted notification information to output device to output the information at GUI .

In some examples aggregation module may output all the notifications at GUI . In other examples aggregation module may determine a priority rating for each of the pieces of information received by information module . Techniques of priority rating are described in further detail in . In some examples GUI may include only a portion of the received information in the notifications from all of the data received by aggregation module . For example in response to receiving a large amount of data in response to the request for information rating module may rate each piece of information associated with the particular notification. In one example rating module may determine a value for the piece of information associated with the respective notification to determine if the piece of information should be included.

In another example rating module may determine a rating value for the notification. The rating value of the notification may be based on the rating value of for each piece of information associated with the notification. For example rating module may base the rating value on the highest rating value of all pieces of information of information associated with the notification. In response to determining rating values rating module may send an indication to aggregation module that includes the determined the rating values.

In response to receiving the indication from rating module aggregation module may send data for the notifications including the associated information to UI module . The indication data may include only a portion of the notifications that have a value indicating including the notification in the output displayed at GUI . UI device may output one or more pieces of information for display at the presence sensitive display. Where aggregation module does not use rating techniques aggregation module may send all of the information to UI module for display at the presence sensitive display.

In some implementations aggregation module may be configured to store in a memory the information associated with aggregations after generating the respective aggregated notifications e.g. notifications and . In other implementations aggregation module can be configured to receive the information associated with the respective aggregation from the respective ones of application modules or from an operating system of computing device e.g. from an event manager of the operating system.

In response to aggregation module sending the data to UI module for output the information may be stored at computing device . For example computing device may store the information in aggregation data . The information stored may include the identified contact and contact identifiers associated with the contact data associated with the context of the computing device application data associated with the retrieved information and rating values where rating values apply. The techniques are further described below in the description of .

In the example of computing device may identify the context of computing device as including a calendar application as a currently executing application e.g. generating scheduled event notification . Computing device may also identify the contact as the invitees associated with the scheduled calendar event project meeting using techniques of this disclosure. In response to identifying the invitees for the project meeting aggregation module may retrieve information about the invitees. The information may appear at GUI in an ordered list displaying the information per context of a particular application generated the information.

In some examples the pieces of information associated with the person may only be available to aggregation module if a user of computing device provides permission for aggregation module to access the information. For example some of the applications executed by computing device may require permission prior to accessing application information. In these instances aggregation module may cause GUI to display a request for permission to access the application information. In other examples the respective application may allow user access to the information without being prompted. Aggregation module or a system wide settings application or service may provide a configuration user interface that enables the user to select the scope of information the user to which access is granted to aggregation module .

As illustrated in the example of computing device may execute one of applications for example a calendar application in a particular context. The context of the application may include at least one of a type of application module the identity e.g. name of the application or information associated with an activity the application is performing. In response to identifying the contact computing device may retrieve information associated with the identified contact from applications executed by computing device . For example user may have an account with a social networking service and be able to access their account with an application executed by computing device . User may have account access information saved at computing device or user may be prompted to enter account verification information. Once account authentication is verified and account access is granted GUI may automatically display the notification associated with the identified contact such as Steve s social networking update .

Notifications may include information accessible only through executed applications such as telephone call information including call information or voicemail messages. In another example social networking users associated with the social network of user may communicate with the social network of user . The communications may be included in the notifications such as location identifier and communication . Some applications may contain objects documents and other data. The notifications may include data that was included in a communication or as an attachment to the communication and may include the all or part of the objects document or data as illustrated by notification . A portion of the document is identified in the notification that was an attachment to an email message .

In the example of notifications may include information after computing device authenticates access to the information prompted. The application may grant access on a system wide level or based on the type of information.

Aggregation module may retrieve one or more pieces of information based on an identified contact. In some examples aggregation module may retrieve a substantial amount of data. To limit the data displayed at GUI computing device may determine a priority rating for each piece of information. The priority rating generally is a score or number value representing the predicted relevance to the user in a particular context and for the identified contact. Aggregation module may base the priority rating value on data retrieved with the information including associated application data and the contact and associated contact identifiers.

As shown in aggregation module may retrieve many e.g. more than 5 pieces of information for a determined contact. In response to receiving many pieces of information aggregation module determines a priority rating value for each piece of information . For instance aggregation module can be configured to assign a higher priority to the information of a similar or same type as the application that is currently executing by computing device . A higher priority rating may be given to the information when aggregation module identifies multiple pieces of information that match information in the currently executing application and the application sending the retrieved information. In the example of the displayed pieces of information have a higher priority rating due to the Aggregation module may give a higher priority rating to information more recent in time or from associated with an application that is more frequently used. Aggregation module can alternatively or additionally compare the identity of the application being executed by computing device to the application from which aggregation module received the instruction to generate the respective information. Aggregation module may assign a higher priority value to the information based on an instruction from the currently executed application compared stored information from another one of applications .

Further in some instances for each piece of information aggregation module can compare the information associated with the activity performed by applications and information stored in the respective application. Aggregation module may then assign a higher priority rating to a piece of information that is more closely related to the activity that the executed application is performing. For example when the user is posting on a social networking message on the user s account older posts to the identified person would have a higher priority rating. In an alternative example applications locates a birthday notification event for a specific person in a calendar application when the name of the specific person is identified in an email that the user is composing on the same day as the specific person s birthday then generating the event on the same day will increase the priority rating for the birthday information associated with the recipient of the email. Aggregation module may analyze and compare any kind of information associated with stored information of applications such as type of information date and time of the information or execution of the respective application recency and frequency of executing the respective application and with the activity performed by the application.

In one example in the example of the recipient of the text message Tanja may have an association with the same social networking service of the user. The association may cause the social networking posts to receive a higher priority rating. The time associated with the data may also increase the priority score such as text message received 30 minutes ago may receive a higher priority rating over information received at an earlier time such as email received 1 month ago.

Computing device may determine threshold value based on the overall priority rating scores of the pieces of information . For example aggregation module may select the pieces of information with the top 1 20 of scores. For example aggregation module may determine a threshold value based on all the priority rating values. The value may identify a priority rating value at the 20 of all scores and determine this value as the threshold value.

Aggregation compares the determined priority rating value to a threshold value to determine which pieces of information to select as information associated with the contact . By setting a threshold value aggregation module may filter the information to improve the accuracy of the retrieved information and the relevancy of the information. For each sharing service with a probability rating value that does not satisfy the threshold value e.g. is lower than the threshold value NO branch of computing device does not select the respective piece of information for display at GUI . For each piece of information with a probability value that satisfies the threshold value e.g. is greater the threshold value YES branch of aggregation module selects the respective piece of information as a piece of information associated with the contact . Computing device displays the selected preferences at GUI . In some examples aggregation module outputs the retrieved pieces of information based on the determined probability value.

In one example computing device may determine a context of computing device the context of computing device including a currently executing application . Based on the context of computing device computing device may identify a contact and a plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact . Computing device may receive from two or more different sources and based on at least one contact identifier from the plurality of contact identifiers information associated with the contact wherein the information includes a respective portion of information received from each of the two or more different sources . Computing device may determine based on the context of the computing device a respective priority value for each of the portions of the information . Computing device may select based on the respective priority value one or more portions of the information . Computing device may output for display a graphical user interface including at least the selected one or more portions of the information .

As shown in the example of computing device may be a processor that includes functionality as described with respect to processor in . In such examples computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display by a communication channel A which may be a system bus or other suitable connection. Computing device may also be operatively coupled to communication unit further described below by a communication channel B which may also be a system bus or other suitable connection. Although shown separately as an example in computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display and communication unit by any number of one or more communication channels.

In other examples such as illustrated previously in computing device may be a portable or mobile device such as mobile phones including smart phones laptop computers etc. In some examples computing device may be a desktop computers tablet computers smart television platforms cameras personal digital assistants PDAs servers mainframes etc.

Presence sensitive display as shown in may include display device and presence sensitive input device . Display device may for example receive data from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive input device may determine one or more user inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at presence sensitive display using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such user input to computing device using communication channel A. In some examples presence sensitive input device may be physically positioned on top of display device such that when a user positions an input unit over a graphical element displayed by display device the location at which presence sensitive input device corresponds to the location of display device at which the graphical element is displayed.

As shown in computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with communication unit . Communication unit may include functionality of communication unit as described in . Examples of communication unit may include a network interface card an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such communication units may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. Computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with one or more other devices e.g. input devices output devices memory storage devices etc. that are not shown in for purposes of brevity and illustration.

Projector screen in some examples may include a presence sensitive display . Presence sensitive display may include a subset of functionality or all of the functionality of UI device as described in this disclosure. In some examples presence sensitive display may include additional functionality. Projector screen e.g. an electronic whiteboard may receive data from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive display may determine one or more user inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at projector screen using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such user input using one or more communication units to computing device .

As described above in some examples computing device may output graphical content for display at presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by a system bus or other suitable communication channel. Computing device may also output graphical content for display at one or more remote devices such as projector projector screen tablet device and visual display device . For instance computing device may execute one or more instructions to generate and or modify graphical content in accordance with techniques of the present disclosure. Computing device may output the data that includes the graphical content to a communication unit of computing device such as communication unit . Communication unit may send the data to one or more of the remote devices such as projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device . In this way computing device may output the graphical content for display at one or more of the remote devices. In some examples one or more of the remote devices may output the graphical content at a presence sensitive display that is included in and or operatively coupled to the respective remote devices.

In some examples computing device may not output graphical content at presence sensitive display that is operatively coupled to computing device . In other examples computing device may output graphical content for display at both a presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by communication channel A and at one or more remote devices. In such examples the graphical content may be displayed substantially contemporaneously at each respective device. For instance some delay may be introduced by the communication latency to send the data that includes the graphical content to the remote device. In some examples graphical content generated by computing device and output for display at presence sensitive display may be different than graphical content display output for display at one or more remote devices.

Computing device may send and receive data using any suitable communication techniques. For example computing device may be operatively coupled to external network using network link A. Each of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled to network external network by one of respective network links B C and D. External network may include network hubs network switches network routers etc. that are operatively inter coupled thereby providing for the exchange of information between computing device and the remote devices illustrated in . In some examples network links A D may be Ethernet ATM or other network connections. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

In some examples computing device may be operatively coupled to one or more of the remote devices included in using direct device communication . Direct device communication may include communications through which computing device sends and receives data directly with a remote device using wired or wireless communication. That is in some examples of direct device communication data sent by computing device may not be forwarded by one or more additional devices before being received at the remote device and vice versa. Examples of direct device communication may include Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus WiFi infrared etc. One or more of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled with computing device by communication links A D. In some examples communication links A D may be connections using Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus infrared etc. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

In accordance with techniques of the disclosure computing device may determine a context of computing device which may include a currently executing application e.g. an application currently executing at or by computing device . Based on the determined context computing device may identify a contact associated with the currently executing application and may also identify a plurality of contact identifiers associated with the contact. Computing device may receive from two or more different sources and based on at least one contact identifier information associated with the contact. The information may include a respective portion of information received from each of the two or more different sources. That is each of the two or more different sources may provide a different portion of the information to computing device . Based on the context of computing device computing device may determine a respective priority value for each of the portion of the information. Computing device may select based on the priority the respective priority values one or more portions of information and output for display e.g. at visual display device a graphical user interface that includes at least the selected one or more portion of information.

In one or more examples the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code a computer readable medium and executed by a hardware based processing unit. Computer readable media may include computer readable storage media which corresponds to a tangible medium such as data storage media or communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another e.g. according to a communication protocol. In this manner computer readable media generally may correspond to 1 tangible computer readable storage media which is non transitory or 2 a communication medium such as a signal or carrier wave. Data storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by one or more computers or one or more processors to retrieve instructions code and or data structures for implementation of the techniques described in this disclosure. A computer program product may include a computer readable medium.

By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if instructions are transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. It should be understood however that computer readable storage media and data storage media do not include connections carrier waves signals or other transient media but are instead directed to non transient tangible storage media. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Instructions may be executed by one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable logic arrays FPGAs central processing units CPUs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects the functionality described herein may be provided within dedicated hardware and or software modules. Also the techniques could be fully implemented in one or more circuits or logic elements.

The techniques of this disclosure may be implemented in a wide variety of devices or apparatuses including a wireless handset an integrated circuit IC or a set of ICs e.g. a chip set . Various components modules or units are described in this disclosure to emphasize functional aspects of devices configured to perform the disclosed techniques but do not necessarily require realization by different hardware units. Rather as described above various units may be combined in a hardware unit or provided by a collection of interoperative hardware units including one or more processors as described above in conjunction with suitable software and or firmware.

Various embodiments of the disclosure have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

