---

title: System and method for marketing attribution in an enterprise
abstract: A system and method include a customer engagement platform of an enterprise. The customer engagement platform is configured to connect with an audience computer and provide to the audience computer contact information associated with a marketing attribution. The marketing attribution accompanies an impression served to the audience computer. The impression and marketing attribution associated with the contact information are sent to the customer engagement platform during an interaction with the enterprise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491294&OS=09491294&RS=09491294
owner: Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09491294
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141219
---
Contact centers can process transactions and general servicing of customers needs. Modern contact centers use proactive methods to reach out to persons who may be existing or potential customers in order to anticipate needs of such persons and to elicit engagement of those persons in transaction and or service based processes hosted by the contact center. Initiating proactive contact can include proactive telephone contact based on some information already known about the person. For example a person may click on a product description to learn more about a product advertised on a web page or within a mobile application email text message streaming TV media or other internet electronic based communication channel . When the contact center learns of this action by the person an automated offer may be delivered to that person e.g. a pop up message which asks the person if they would like to chat with an agent receive or schedule a call make an appointment in a branch or store or be redirected to an order page for example.

Marketing spending is intended to drive enterprise revenue. With the growth of the Internet network electronic advertising including advertising via web pages mobile applications emails text messaging streaming TV video media etc. e.g. search result page advertising via the Internet have become vehicles for opt in advertising and or drive follow up by the prospect or customer through various communication channels. Targeting methods for electronic advertising include targeting consumers based on search keyword browser behavior navigation history profile information likes or dislikes survey response GPS coordinates social media activities etc. For electronic advertising a consumer receiving the advertisement may interact with it to initiate a process which represents the goal of the advertisement e.g. a sale to a consumer of a service or a product.

For purposes of explanation the term contact center is used to refer to the contact point within the enterprise or organization that is interacting with the prospect or customer. The embodiments are not restricted to traditional contact center agents. The contact point can also include situations such as a representative in a branch store back office home based worker field worker outsourcer and or virtual agents or other forms of self service automation etc. Any point of contact is possible. Also an agent is a point of contact agent or other enterprise representative.

A demand side platform allows marketers on market side computers to manage multiple ad exchange and data exchange accounts through an application programming interface API . Publishers of ad networks make requests for bids and retrieve the impressions from the ad exchange to send the impressions to the audience computers . A publisher and ad network can include a search engine provider e.g. YAHOO or other publisher. An exemplary ad exchange is the DoubleClick Ad Exchange. Real time bidding for display of the impressions online can take place within the ad exchanges . By utilizing the demand side platform the publishers can manage their bid requests for the available advertising space and the pricing for the impressions and the market side computers can manage the advertisements that they are layering on to the website to target the audiences of the audience computers . The market side computers can perform various functions including design of marketing advertisements campaigns and arbitration of advertisement assignments to publishers e.g. automated based on rules. Logic for arbitration can include determining an actual current presence of end users and pricing. If the impression includes an option for a communication with the representative e.g. a chat or a call then pacing can be implemented. Pacing is related to hit rate e.g. percentage of accepted offers which may vary across publishers and can depend on further parameters including time of day season etc. as described below. A winning bid from the market side computers gets its impression displayed.

For example the impression may include contact information so that the audience can use a communication device to connect over a network with the representative e.g. agent at an enterprise e.g. a contact center a branch store a back office a home based agent etc. The communication device can include a mobile phone a landline phone a computer etc. The network can include a public switched telephone network PSTN including for example telephone lines Voice Over Internet protocol VoIP fiber optic cables microwave transmission links cellular networks communications satellites undersea telephone cables etc. interconnected by switching centers and or a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet a city area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN etc. e.g. enabled for a point of contact by a GENEYSY SIP server.

The market side computers may be used by a marketing team to determine which advertising methods are most valuable. With feedback from the enterprise the market side computer can track digital marketing from the initial impression through the contact and or purchase process with the representative to see which impressions drew the customer to the web page and subsequently to a customer contact and or purchase. Other scenarios include the enterprise trying to get the audience to opt into is an activity such as completing a survey or volunteering for a non profit or political organization etc. The initial sales lead may be captured online electronically and or an actual purchase may not take place until the customer is interacting in a more direct communication channel e.g. while talking on the phone with the representative and or during an in person meeting with a branch store representative that may have been scheduled as part of the initial online lead capture.

The digital marketing attribution can be maintained whether or not the customer reaches out to the enterprise e.g. contact center or other point of contact for help through an inbound phone call as part of the customer contact and or sales process. Points of contact can include a branch store back office home based agent etc. The initial digital interaction e.g. filling out a web form can be paired with a direct inbound phone call in this way. The pairing can identify the given a publisher website combination or additionally a date time etc. For example a customer may delay a call to the next day. Pairing for chat can assume that the chat is launched directly from the website where the impression was displayed. The impression can offer further communication options e.g. social media including FACEBOOK TWITTER etc. If directly invoked from the given website then the context can be transferred as well. If the phone call is done through a different end device e.g. rather than a WebRTC call from the same website then pairing may require a unique ID e.g. different per publisher website or additional keyword promotion code or a quick response QR code etc.

As a result phone calls into the enterprise have marketing attribution with the ability to tie the particular ad spend to the enterprise s sales or service results. The fed back information can be used in various ways e.g. to inform the market processing system of the best time to serve impressions for determined topics e.g. when more people are interacting with the impressions or when more representatives are needed e.g. to schedule their work shifts perform intra day staffing schedule adjustment e.g. comparing actual traffic during first business hour with predicted one and proportionally adjusting staffing etc. Additionally or alternatively the demand side platform can send information to a customer engagement platform to aid the enterprise with scheduling representatives . The customer engagement platform can include the CRM and or CXP or other platform that is can serve dynamic contact information e.g. phone numbers or extension and tie the dynamic numbers to both the marketing attribution and the subsequent customer contact interaction.

Additionally web traffic volume views on the web page in which the impressions appears and or CTR click through rates can be tracked and it is possible to determine the full conversion path correlated with that marketing attribution if the conversion path includes a direct inbound phone call. Other data can also be tracked e.g. if the impression that led to the call was forwarded from another person etc. For example the market side computers forwards an impression to the web page of the audience and when the audience opens a link the publisher determines through cookies or surrounding circumstances that the opened page is not a typical entrance page e.g. that the impression was forwarded. Additionally or alternatively sharing the information via social media can be monitored. Additionally or alternatively when the audience calls the representative can ask whether the link was forwarded e.g. during a conversation with the representative or in a survey.

The market side computers can measure the cost effectiveness of particular advertisements and ad placements in terms of quantifiable benefit metrics such as cost per action acquisition CPA versus the enterprise having an arbitrary or estimated marketing attribution. Alternatively enterprises can set up determined contact information e.g. phone numbers that are used with general marketing categories to get an aggregate count of phone calls e.g. fifty calls came into the point of contact today for upgrade campaigns. The feedback from the enterprise to the market side computer allows for the individual customers to be associated with a marketing campaign once the customer has dialed the enterprise . Therefore it is possible to tie sales closure rates for individual customers to a specific marketing campaign or advertisement.

The audience computer can be used to select e.g. click on the impression in the search results and be directed to a website of the seller enterprise. The website can encourage the audience to reach out to the enterprise e.g. Representative waiting to help you by dialing the provided phone number. Alternatively the website can encourage the audience to reach out by displaying the call number or chat link in the impression without the audience having to click it. For each impression data can be collected about search that leads to the impression to be served and the click through seller CTS data associated with the route identification ID . Additionally or alternatively the audience computer can be provided with a web browser link to connect with the representative of the enterprise . For example WebRTC provides web browsers with Real Time Communications RTC capabilities via simple JavaScript APIs. The WebRTC route ID information can be collected from the browser . The route ID and data from the search and CTS can be stored in a database e.g. a local or remote database or distributed databases and or the cloud . Collected data can include search information e.g. about the type of product or service profile information e.g. audience ID level of service and type of audience and context information e.g. location of the audience member time of the contact etc.

The call or web browser communication along with the collected data is sent to and or accessed by the enterprise . At the enterprise a customer relationship management CRM system and or a customer experience platform CXP e.g. GENESYS Customer Experience Platform potentially further enhanced by GENESYS Conversation Manager capabilities can be used to manage the contact center interactions with the customer. The CRM and or CXP organizes automates and synchronizes sales marketing customer service and technical support. Calls and browser interactions are answered by the representative or placed in a queue to wait for a next available representative. A service window can display the queue to the representative . The representative of the enterprise can be skilled in discussing kitchen sinks or a knowledge management corpus at the enterprise can be available that have the skill to discuss kitchen sinks. The knowledge workers can be invited to handle the call or chat. This can be done through pacing of invites to knowledge workers and keeping those who accepted for a short time in a pool of reserved knowledge workers. Queued interaction requests are matched to reserved knowledge workers. In order to not block the knowledge workers the knowledge workers can leave the knowledge worker pool after configurable timeout even if no interaction was assigned. Another scenario is transfer from representative to knowledge worker e.g. a two step or a blind transfer. The representative removes the call or browser interaction from the queue and helps the customer to resolve an issue or make a purchase.

The impression can be attributed for example based on a reserved dialed number identification service DNIS associated with the impression for a call which may be a full phone number DNIS and or a unique extension number appended to the DNIS and or based on a session for a chat engagement via the browser or for a virtual resource and or based on a scheduled contact or appointment with a representative within the enterprise . The reserved phone number for example is associated with the marketing attribution and the marketing attribution can accompany the impression served to the audience computer . Means other than the phone number can be used to identify the impression e.g. based on the publisher the navigation path the date time etc. The marketing attribution made by the enterprise regarding the call can include a call resolution to be shared with the market side computer . For example the enterprise can indicate that a sale was made that a sale was not made that caller will call back that the caller wants a call back etc.

Additional or alternative to a dynamic DNIS the embodiments can be used with other communication channels including non phone type communication channels. For example one implementation includes the impression providing a reserved appointment time in an office branch or store. If the prospect or customer accepts the appointment invitation the marketing attribution for the impression is tied to the in person interaction with the prospect or customer. For example the impression may be related to having a retirement health check analysis done by an investment specialist at the local investment banker branch office.

The audience computer searches for a product or a service e.g. via a web browser . The search engine marketing platform sends the impressions to the web browser during the web search. In the context of a search a search engine e.g. ad networks and publishers of can determine an impression for the audience computer based on attributes provided by the market side computers . Additionally or alternatively the impression can be placed on a web page during web browsing without the need for a search. In one example the impression can be placed on the page based on information obtained from cookies. The attributes can include a location of the target audience e.g. audiences living in the Midwest a determined age range a determined gender a determined net worth a determined language etc. Included with the attributes can be a customer identifier and or a scoring number. The website requests a dynamic number from the customer engagement platform by sending the marketing attribution as described in more detail below . The website can encourage the customer to reach out to the enterprise with a Representative waiting to help you by dialing the number. A voice platform server can answer the call the place the call in the queue to be picked by a representative station .

The voice platform server retrieves marketing attribution from the customer engagement platform e.g. based on the dialed number. If the pool of reserved numbers is limited and reused in a cyclic way then additionally a timeslot for calling can be given to preserve an association with the triggering context. The representative can answer the call at the representative station . The station can include a phone and a computer the computer including a processor and memory. The call can be made in various media and or social channels including voice chat text video schedule contact appointment etc. both separate and combined. The call can be an inbound call from the customer to the representative or an outbound call e.g. the representative initiating a call with the customer and or returning a call to the customer.

An exemplary voice platform server is a GENESYS voice platform GVP server. An interactive voice response IVR server which allows a computer to interact with during a call with the customer can be used to help answer the calls and place the calls in the queue e.g. using dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones input via a keypad. The voice platform server answers the call and places the caller in the queue and when the representative becomes available then the audience member is removed from the queue . The representative helps the customer to resolve an issue or make a purchase etc. Alternatively in certain scenarios the IVR may be sufficient to finish the sale without need for a live representative . Since IVR resources are also limited e.g. a number of concurrent media control platform MCP ports is limited a pacing of when to place the impressions can be required.

The representative station can connect with the market processing system to feed back customer interaction data e.g. call data and sales conversion data to the market processing system . In addition to the collected data described in e.g. about the type of product or service profile information e.g. audience ID level of service and type of audience and context information e.g. location of the audience member time of the contact etc. the representative station can provide customer interaction data. The customer interaction data along with the customer ID can include negative and positive outcomes of the customer engagement e.g. whether there was a sale whether there was not a sale whether the caller stated they would like time to consider the product or service and they would call back whether the caller wants time to think about the product or service and a return call etc. The data from the representative stations can inform the market side computers that the caller is expecting a follow up call and allows for estimated hit rates which can be important for tuning campaign pacing. This information can be stored with the customer histories for the enterprise . The market processing system can also capture missed opportunities e.g. the customers that did not engage the impression .

The market processing system can utilize the fed back customer interaction data for campaign management and potential campaign adjustment e.g. to set advertising budgets determine a number of impressions to delivery determine where to deliver the impressions etc. The customer interaction data can also be used to update the marketing attribute after the call is completed. By targeting impressions in ways that yield better results this can improve advertisement fulfillment and cost reduction. In this way attributes that would otherwise only be available to or within the enterprise are available to the market side computers . The fed back data can result in a smaller amount of unique temporary numbers needed per advertising campaign since the market processing system does not have to use a different number to distinguish between impressions . Additionally or alternatively the enterprise can feed back word of mouth effects e.g. customer communicating about campaign in social media to the market processing system . A social media connector watching for actionable events can capture the data fed back to the market processing system . The fed back data can be combined with inbound marketing to try to cross up sell to inbound customers who are not aware of campaigns.

For example a customer decides it is time to purchase a new bike. Using an audience computer she searches on the web for a mountain bike and receives several impressions for mountain bikes along with her search results. The customer clicks on a search result link and the website makes a request to the customer engagement platform for a phone number to reach the enterprise . The website sends the marketing attribution to the customer engagement platform and the customer engagement platform associates the attribution with the phone number and or extension reserved for a determined period of time that it sent to the website .

The customer decides to call the phone number and ask for help on mountain bike gear ratios. The voice platform server receives the call and the voice application sends the customer s dialed number to the customer engagement platform . The customer engagement platform uses the dialed number to retrieve the customer s the marketing attribution associated with that number e.g. via a lookup table. The customer engagement platform returns the marketing attribution to the voice platform server and releases the dialed number. The voice platform server then appends the marketing attribution key value pairs to the call to the representative station . After the representative has helped the customer with the helmet decision a post routing script can utilize the marketing attribution key value pairs for reporting to the market processing system .

Using the attribution information from the representative station the market processing system can directly associate marketing spend with the original advertisement investment that drove the customer contacts that lead to the business outcomes. The market side computers can also better ascertain marketing attribution in terms of quantifiable metrics such as cost per action acquisition CPA . This allows the market side computers to better evaluate the effectiveness of advertisement spending and determine where future marketing investments may yield the most return on investment e.g. before the impression has been purchased.

Advantages include cost savings due to improved marketing attribution as improved insights guide future advertising spending more effectively. Cost savings may also occur due to operational optimization e.g. labor cost reduction by being able to better forecast schedule and utilize skilled workforce. Cost savings may occur due to reduced representative time required to determine the source or intent of the incoming call. Revenue improvement may occur due to higher sales closure rates as a result of a more relevant and timely connection between the a impression and the interaction with a representative who can close the sale or deliver effective service. Improved customer experience and lower customer effort may also occur along with improved employee experiences by being able to engage with more engaged hotter leads. The enterprise is able to report on marketing attribution for individual customer resolutions. The architecture also includes a real time ability to convey marketing information to the enterprise across an inbound phone call event.

The search engine marketing platform places the impression in the search results along with the phone number . The audience computer searches for a product or a service and receives the impression with the phone number . The customer dials the phone number in the impression . The voice platform server answers the phone call and retrieves the marketing attribution from customer engagement platform based on the dialed phone number . The voice platform server places the caller in queue and when the representative becomes available then the customer is removed from the queue . The representative helps the customer to resolve an issue or make a purchase . The representative station e.g. the enterprise shares resolution information with the market processing system .

For example a home buyer browses a web page. In some cases the home buyer may use a search engine to perform a keyword search for mortgage rates and in other cases advertisements are sent to the website absent a search. A bank determines to display impression for its mortgage loans on the website . In some implementations the bank only wants to display the impression when there is a skilled mortgage loan officer available to handle potential inquiries. In other implementations the bank displays the impression at determined times e.g. during times of high web browsing traffic during determined times of the day month year when the advertising budget allows for it etc. If the impression is being displayed based on an availability of skilled representative the enterprise can send to the demand side platform the status of its availability of mortgage and chat skilled representatives so the demand side platform and ad exchange can take this into account when determining when to present the impression and or a cost of the impression . The search engine marketing platform determines an impression to display . In the case of a search the search engine marketing platform sends the user s search information to the ad exchange which coordinates with the demand side platform to determine the appropriate impression to display e.g. through ad bidding or other display process according to determined attributes and business rules as discussed herein.

The impression which is presented can include a proactive dynamic invitation to engage with an available mortgage and chat skilled representative including contact information . The market processing system can correlate the call or chat interaction with the skilled representative back with the original marketing attribution e.g. based on the contact information . Other scenarios are possible. For example the interaction can start with chat and then a voice channel is added. For example the representative can call the customer or if chat is via WebRTC then add voice to the session. Advantages include that the market processing system can directly associate interactions with skilled representatives and resulting business outcomes back with the original impression that drove those customer contacts. Therefore the market processing system can better ascertain marketing attribution in terms of quantifiable metrics such as cost per action acquisition CPA . This allows the market processing system to better evaluate the effectiveness of ad spend and where future marketing investments can likely yield a better return on investment.

This can lead to cost savings due to reduced marketing spend on impressions e.g. only pay for advertising volume in line with available skilled representative resourcing. Moreover there can be cost savings due to improved marketing attribution e.g. improved insights guide future ad spend more effectively. Other cost savings can be due to operational optimization e.g. labor cost reduction by being able to better forecast schedule and utilize the skilled workforce. Revenue improvement can occur due to higher sales closure rates e.g. as a result of a more relevant and timely connection between the impression and the interaction with a skilled representative who can close the sale or deliver effective service. There can also be an improved customer experience and lower customer effort and improved employee experience by being able to connect with more engaged hotter leads.

For example a home buyer uses a search engine to do a keyword search for mortgage rates on a website . Alternatively a search need not be conducted for a bank to display an impression . The bank may want to display impressions for its mortgage loans on the website when it has skilled mortgage loan officers available to handle potential inquiries . Alternatively the bank need not check for an available skilled representative . The search engine marketing platform sends the user s search information to an ad exchange which coordinates with the demand side platform to determine the appropriate impression to display according to various attributes and business rules e.g. as described above. This process may involve ad bidding. The enterprise sends the demand side platform the status of its availability of mortgage skilled representatives so the demand side platform and ad exchange can take this into account when determining which impression to display . The demand side platform can provide the enterprise with historical and or projected demand for mortgage related impressions based on the web user interest it has seen in the past and or recent trends. The enterprise can take this data into account in its workforce planning models so that it accurately forecasts the number of mortgage skilled representatives needed at particular times in order to effectively and cost efficiently capture the marketing opportunity . The impression is displayed and the skilled representative is standing by .

With the marketing attribution based WFM forecasting the organization can proactively adjust its resource staff forecasting based on historical or trending ad demand patterns to ensure that it neither under nor over servicing the potential market opportunity. In addition for high value items it can be beneficial to ensure the right skilled resource is available to support an impression that is delivered to a user and that staff planning matches projected marketing lead volumes. The WFM forecasting can be implemented as part of an ad purchase display decision template and associated with a script of the orchestration application or other rule system. The solution can make use of the core customer experience platforms for representative skill set and availability data as well as skills based routing and contextual computer telephony integration CTI screen pop capabilities e.g. in . The WFM solution can enable skilled resource allocation scheduling and forecasting capabilities and include real time awareness of detailed representative skill sets and availability. It also includes the ability to correlate historical or trending ad demand with skilled resource planning and forecasting.

The systems and methods described above may be implemented in many different ways in many different combinations of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. In one example the systems and methods can be implemented with a processor and a memory where the memory stores instructions which when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the systems and methods. The processor may mean any type of circuit such as but not limited to a microprocessor a microcontroller a graphics processor a digital signal processor or another processor. The processor may also be implemented with discrete logic or components or a combination of other types of analog or digital circuitry combined on a single integrated circuit or distributed among multiple integrated circuits. All or part of the logic described above may be implemented as instructions for execution by the processor controller or other processing device and may be stored in a tangible or non transitory machine readable or computer readable medium such as flash memory random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or other machine readable medium such as a compact disc read only memory CDROM or magnetic or optical disk. A product such as a computer program product may include a storage medium and computer readable instructions stored on the medium which when executed in an endpoint computer system or other device cause the device to perform operations according to any of the description above. The memory can be implemented with one or more hard drives and or one or more drives that handle removable media such as diskettes compact disks CDs digital video disks DVDs flash memory keys and other removable media.

The processing capability of the system may be distributed among multiple system components such as among multiple processors and memories optionally including multiple distributed processing systems. Parameters databases and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database may be logically and physically organized in many different ways and may implemented in many ways including data structures such as linked lists hash tables or implicit storage mechanisms. Programs may be parts e.g. subroutines of a single program separate programs distributed across several memories and processors or implemented in many different ways such as in a library such as a shared library e.g. a dynamic link library DLL . The DLL for example may store code that performs any of the system processing described above.

While various embodiments have been described it can be apparent that many more embodiments and implementations are possible. Accordingly the embodiments are not to be restricted.

