---

title: Generating geographical keywords for geotargeting search engine-offered advertisements
abstract: A computer-based method for use in geotargeting online ads to users of search engines by allowing comparison of user's search terms with a set of geo-keywords. The method includes providing a geographic keyword generator on a server that is linked to the Internet. The method includes providing a spatial database storing classes of geographic keywords. The method continues with receiving a keyword request including a business address from a client node. The keyword generator determines a service area based on this location, and a set of geographic keywords is retrieved from the spatial database that are associated (e.g., within) the determined service area. This set of keywords is transmitted or reported to the client node (e.g., displayed in a web browser or user interface) for use in geotargeting of their online advertisements. The keyword request includes a business type, and the service area is sized based on the business type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384291&OS=09384291&RS=09384291
owner: 
number: 09384291
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140730
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 275 387 filed Nov. 21 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 990 103 filed Nov. 26 2007 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates in general to use of search engines to search online content and return search results along with advertising targeted to the searching party and more particularly to computer based methods for providing advertising based on geographical information to provide an alternative to existing Internet Protocol IP or user input based geotargeting of online Internet or web advertising content.

Search engine marketing SEM is a form of Internet marketing that seeks to promote websites and advertising content by increasing visibility in search engine result pages SERPs . SEM has grown increasingly important as the number of Internet users has rapidly increased with many customers turning to the Internet as their primary source for finding service providers e.g. to find a good restaurant to find a doctor to locate a hotel and so on . In a SERF the search engine provider typically will present a listing of websites ranked in the order of relevance to a set of search terms with relevance being determined by the search engine s algorithms. Search engine providers have built a business model to finance their services that includes providing pay per click programs and paid search opportunities and as a result most SERPs now include paid advertisements at the top of the page and along one or both sides as well as pop up advertisements in some cases .

SEM methods are rapidly being developed to facilitate service providers to better utilize the Internet and business models of search engine providers. SEM methods may include search engine optimization SEO and paid placement inclusion. SEO is the process of modifying the structure and content of a website such that search engines can readily understand and find the website during a search of website content databases. For example SEO may include choosing keyword phrases such as phrases that are 2 to 4 words long and repeating these throughout the content of the page and other locations such as in the title meta tags headlines text links and so on . Use of keyword phrases often helps to target particular searchers e.g. customers . SEO is used to enhance a search engine ranking of websites and the ranking is intended to indicate which websites have content that is more highly relevant relative to other websites based on search terms entered by a search engine user in the search engine s query or search box. Search engine rankings are important because the websites returned in a SERP are provided in the ranked order with the most relevant or highest ranked sites listed first and most Internet searchers only visit the most highly ranked sites.

SEM methods also include determining how best to spend money on pay per click or paid inclusion advertising provided by search engine providers. Participating in an advertisement offering by a search engine provider can be expensive. Some service providers pay relatively large amounts to appear or be presented on numerous SERPs because they bid large amounts during keyword bidding offered by the search engine provider e.g. a dollar amount that an advertiser is willing to pay to display an ad relative to the competition . For example a search engine provider may determine which websites or website advertisements to present in a SERP by using the query or search terms and comparing these to keywords provided or purchased by the advertisers. Typically the more general the keyword i.e. the more likely it is used in a search the higher the cost in a keyword bid. However this may result in a site getting many visitors and generating a higher advertising cost without attracting the kind of visitors that result in sales due to poor targeting of the ads to the viewers customers. Numerous visitors may be desirable for a general national brand advertising campaign such as beverage or automobile advertising campaign but it is not typically acceptable with many advertisers carefully tracking conversion of traffic to queries sales. Since advertising spending is limited for most service providers advertisers are continually searching for ways to better target their ads and have them returned on SERPs with a higher likelihood of conversion to a sale.

In some cases the search engine may utilize a management system that controls selection and placement of sponsored links or web advertising based on other information than a keyword search such as geographical location. For example the advertisement management system may use geotargeting which generally has involved the determining of the geolocation or physical location of a website visitor or individual presenting a query to a search engine. When a search engine used geotargeting for its advertising selection and or ranking the location of the searcher or user is utilized to select which advertisements or advertising content should be presented on the SERP rather than simply keyword searching on phrases or terms provided by the advertiser e.g. keywords bid on by the advertisers typically related to their goods or services . For example a search engine provider may use geotargeting to try to present pay per click advertisements only to users who live in locations selected by the advertiser e.g. only display an ad for a California sports team when the searcher is located in California or the like.

Unfortunately geotargeting is often not effective in accurately targeting customers via search engine result pages SERPs especially in targeting customers of businesses or service providers with a relatively small or localised service area. Geotargeting of advertising may be provided by geo intelligence embedded or running on the serving platform or by processing a user profile or a user provided search with geographic terms. When carried out by an ad serving platform geotargeting is generally limited to its embedded geo intelligence and most geotargeting algorithms determine a searcher s location based on an Internet Protocol IP address. IP based geomarketing seeks to convert a computer s IP address into a real world location. In theory such a location technique seems effective and valuable with the ad server assuming the user is located in a geographic location associated with the IP address of the submitted query or search request to the search engine. In practice the use of IP addresses to identify actual location provides a rough estimate such as within a state or region but not the actual location of the user. IP geomarketing involves first using an automated discovery of the user s geolocation information based on IP addresses based on traceroute pings and a combination of other advanced tools. It is dependent upon a pre analysis of the entire IP address space which is a huge task as there are more than 4 billion possible IP addresses and IP addresses are constantly being assigned allocated reallocated moved and changed due to routers being moved enterprises being assigned IP addresses networks being built changed and use of load balancing equipment and proxy servers by Internet service providers to distribute traffic across their network s . As a result the locations determined based on IP addresses may only be accurate on a regional level or on city based level. In other cases the use of IP addresses simply results in bad location information such as resulted in past experiences where on Internet service provider indicated all of their nationwide subscribers had IP addresses in a single city e.g. use of load balancers and proxy servers made all packets appear that they came from a location other than the user s searcher s actual location . In either case IP geotargeting does not provide the accuracy or reliability that is needed to provide effective targeting of advertising based on geographic location. Additionally the location that is being determined is the location of the user but the query or search input by the user often is for a differing location such as when planning a vacation or trip a dinner in another city and so on.

In addition to a website or search engine determining a user s location based on IP address lookup users may directly provide information about their location. For example users may provide a user profile to a website or to a search engine as part of establishing an account. Because user profiles are predetermined they require no additional effort from the user when they perform an online search. However when a user or searcher is searching outside the area or location contained in their user profile the advertising provided with their search results will typically be inappropriate e.g. advertise restaurants in New York City based on the user profile when the searcher is planning a trip to Los Angeles . The majority of the time searchers are searching outside their profile defined geographic area. In these cases the burden is placed on the searcher to define the geographic proximity of their search and this creates another set of problems for the ad management tools of search engines and website providers . Faunal geographical terms such as cities addresses postal codes and so on may be properly recognized by a search engine but searchers often will not know this information or incorrectly enter it as part of their searches. In other cases informal geographical terms such as schools parks neighborhoods key landmarks and so on are only recognized in keyword searching methods and are not related spatially or associated to a particular geographic location or area. For example a search attempting to find a coffee shop in the Tribeca neighborhood of Manhattan may return results and or advertising for the Tribeca Coffee Shop in Krakow Poland or in Durban South Africa while failing to target advertisements for this neighborhood toward the searcher.

Hence while IP based geotargeting can be effective at a national state and sometimes city level this form of geomarketing fails to provide the granularity required to support truly local ad targeting. User profile based geotargeting is useful if the searcher is limiting their queries to locations and service providers within their profile defined location or area but this form of geomarketing fails once the user begins searching other geographic areas and also often fails to provide a desired reliability e.g. because it relies on a user to define their geographic location in their profile and or granularity e.g. may only identify a city or state location . There is an ongoing need for improved methods and systems for targeting online advertisement toward users of the Internet e.g. to users of search engines that return advertisements selected based on the geographical information or users that search while visiting another web site that may return results along with advertisements .

Briefly geotargeting methods provided in accordance with the present invention provide enhanced online advertising that can be effectively targeted to local or regional service providers. For example a restaurant with a single location may target online searchers that search for dining options through a search engine and have their online ad or web site link presented to individuals that enter search terms or keywords that match geographic keywords or geomodifiers geomods defined for that restaurant s service area e.g. for a 30 mile radius from the restaurant s physical geographic location for a service area defined by a 45 minute maximum drive time and or for a service area defined by system or user provided parameters such as within a state or country . Traditional IP based geographic targeting focuses on the geographic origin of the search query which may be inaccurately determined and not on the user s or searcher s intent for their search or online query. For example a searcher may be searching from their home in Dallas Tex. but looking for a hotel in San Diego Calif. and IP based geotargeting methods may result in the searcher viewing ads for hotels and related services near Dallas and not San Diego. Further while IP based geotargeting may be effective on a national or state level it typically fails to provide desired granularity or specificity required to support effective local advertising e.g. a shopper in North Hollywood may not be interested in a shop in a neighborhood of Anaheim while both are considered in Los Angeles by some IP based geotargeting methods .

The geomodifier or geo keyword generator method is provided by a software based tool e.g. a web service application programming interface API or the like that may be labeled GeoMods or similar names herein that may be accessed by online advertising services or by others trying to target Internet users or online searchers for particular service areas or defined service areas. GeoMods is a tool that receives or more typically determines generates a definition of a service area for an online advertiser. In the typical case it receives a business address or geographic location and other service area defining data such as business type business size maximum drive time transportation mode s geographical features locality type e.g. urban suburban rural or the like as input and generates a service area based on this input. The geomodifier engine or GeoMods then generates a set of keywords based on the defined or received service area that defines or relates to the advertiser s service area. The geomodifier engine returns or outputs geographic keywords or geo keywords such as names of neighborhoods that overlap the service area area codes within the service area parks nearby the business landmarks in the service area and other geographic or spatial attributes that better textually define the service area for a business e.g. search terms that are often used by online searchers when trying to define a locality that is associated with the advertiser s service area . The geomodifier engine or API may be provided as a programmatic application or as an interactive application. Keywords are typically returned to the requesting party e.g. an advertising platform or system in plain text making integration into campaign management platforms relatively easy.

The keywords returned may take many forms to act to define a service area. In some cases the keywords may be thought of as falling in one of the following classes e.g. providing a word or phrase defining one of the following classes neighborhoods area codes parks rail systems stations postal codes landmarks hospitals mass transit systems stations administrative boundaries museums airports schools universities political governmental boundaries e.g. city boundaries county boundaries state boundaries country boundaries and the like geographic features bus stations cultural attractions countries post offices and the like. For example an advertiser may provide service area defining data as input to the geomodifier generator engine that includes an address or location of a business e.g. 74 New Montgomery San Francisco Calif. along with information useful for defining a business type e.g. a coffee shop . The geomodifier generator engine may use the business type to retrieve a default service area size e.g. a few blocks up to 1 mile or more in radius or the like and the engine may generate a service area definition by creating a circular area about the center point location at the business address. A spatial database containing geographically based data e.g. data keywords for the classes listed above is searched or accessed with the service area definition to generate a listing of or set of geo keywords for the service area. In the above example the keyword set returned may include SoMa e.g. a matching neighborhood San Francisco Museum of Modern Art e.g. a matching museum or landmark Transbay Terminal e.g. a matching mass transit system station and the like.

Advertisers use these keywords in their SEO and keyword advertising efforts to target local customers and or potential customers intending to visit their service area. For example the advertisers may update metadata of their website to attempt to be more highly ranked in the SERP e.g. to be shown more often and higher in the results portion of a search engine results page or SERP. The advertiser may also be more highly ranked in paid advertising or pay per click portions of the SERP with search engine provider or ad server for example applying search terms entered by an online searcher to find matches in the geo keywords of the advertiser when separate content phrases are provided or paid for e.g. keyword bidding or the like or in their page site content or the like to more accurately select advertisers based on geographical information provided by the searcher. By incorporating some or all of the keywords returned from the geomodifiers generating engine into SEO optimization strategies or using them in search advertising the advertiser s e.g. the coffee shop s website will likely get traffic that is more local in nature and the site gets better qualified visitors without having to focus on more competitive and higher priced keywords e.g. bid higher for keywords to obtain more traffic that may be less relevant qualified .

More particularly a computer based method is provided for use in geotargeting online ads to users of search engines by allowing comparison of user s search terms e.g. their intent for locality with a set of geo keywords or geomods associated with an advertiser s website or ads. The method includes providing a geographic keyword generator or web service running on a computer or server that is communicatively linked to a digital communications network e.g. the Internet or the like . The method also includes providing a spatial database in data storage that is accessible by the keyword generator and the database stores a plurality of geographic keywords. For example the keywords may be associated with spatial data useful for defining an advertiser s service area e.g. names or terms associated with one or more of classes such as neighborhoods area codes parks rail systems postal codes landmarks hospitals mass transit systems administrative boundaries museums airports schools governmental boundaries geographic features bus stations train stations cultural attractions and post offices. The method continues with receiving a keyword request including location data for an advertiser e.g. a business address or the like from a client node such as an advertising platform. The keyword generator is used to determine a service area based on this location data and then a set of geographic keywords is retrieved from the spatial database that are associated with e.g. within the determined service area. This set of keywords is transmitted or reported to the client node e.g. displayed in the user s GUI or the like for use in geotargeting of their online advertisements.

In practice the keyword request may include a business type and the determining of the service area may involve selecting a size of the determined service area based on the business type e.g. larger for a service that provides higher priced goods services and smaller for a service that provides lower priced commodity type goods or the like . The service area determination may also include determining whether the location data falls within an urban higher population density locality or within a non urban lower population density locality and then sizing the service area based on this added information e.g. smaller within an urban setting and larger in a suburban or rural setting . The keyword request may also include a maximum travel time and the determination of the service area may include selecting a size of the area to suit this travel time limit. For example the determination may include modeling the travel time or travel cost to create a number of polygonal areas extending outward from the advertiser s location. Then the service area may be generated by combining these polygonal areas. In other areas the location data may be used as a center point of a circular area and a radial distance is chosen e.g. based on the business type provided in the request or based on the population density of the center point and a circular service area created. The keyword request may also include additional area size shape restrictions e.g. provide service only within a particular city or state boundary and the determination may include applying these additional restrictions limitations to the originally created or base service area. The method may also include operating the client node to create or modify a website definition or an online advertising search term listing to include all or a subset of the returned geographic keywords whereby the service area of the advertiser is defined with spatial data keywords and or phrases such as neighborhood names landmarks mass transit names identifiers and so on to allow ready comparison with online searchers entered query terms phrases.

The present invention is directed to computer based methods and systems for generating sets of geographic or geo keywords based on a service area. The service area may be defined using methods algorithms of the invention or be received as part of a geo keyword request e.g. from an advertising platform or other party system . In some cases a geomods or geo keyword generator engine or web service e.g. an API that utilizes standard web protocols is provided that serves spatial terms that are relevant to a specified area or to a business service area determined by the generator engine based on service area data e.g. a business location s and other parameters such as maximum drive travel time . The generator engine leverages a data store with spatial data with spatial based or geo keywords stored in some cases in a database with records searchable with a definition of a geographic area e.g. definition of a business service area . The geo keywords may include many of the same geo keywords that are used to power local search portals. In some cases queries to define a service area with keywords may be made in addition to with service area definition or in place of such definition by extent point radius address and or by naming additional geo keywords as constraints. Organizations may leverage the geospatial capabilities provided by the spatial database or data store without having to develop these capabilities internally quickly deploying enhanced geotargeting capabilities.

The functions and features of the invention are described as being performed in some cases by modules or engines or APIs that may be implemented as software running on a computing device and or hardware. For example the geotargeting method processes and or functions described herein and including service area determination geo keywords generation reporting outputting such keyword listings and geotargeting using such keywords may be performed by one or more processors or CPUs running software modules or programs. The methods or processes performed by each module are described in detail below typically with reference to functional block diagrams flow charts and or data system flow diagrams that highlight the steps that may be performed by subroutines or algorithms when a computer or computing device runs code or programs to implement the functionality of embodiments of the invention. Further to practice the invention the computer network and data storage devices and systems may be any devices useful for providing the described functions including well known data processing and storage and communication devices and systems such as computer devices or nodes typically used in computer systems or networks with processing memory and input output components and server devices e.g. web servers used to serve or host search engines ad servers and databases or other data stores with classes of spatial data and the like configured to generate and transmit digital data over a communications network. Data typically is communicated in a wired or wireless manner over digital communications networks such as the Internet intranets or the like which may be represented in some figures simply as connecting lines and or arrows representing data flow over such networks or more directly between two or more devices or modules such as in digital format following standard communication and transfer protocols such as TCP IP protocols.

The following description begins with a description of one useful embodiment of a computer system or network with reference to that can be used to implement the geo keyword and geotargeting process in accordance with the invention. A more detailed system network is then described with reference to and illustrates examples of service areas that may be generated or defined for a single business based on user or requestor input to the geo keyword generator engine or geomods web service. Then representative processes are discussed in more detail with reference to the method of with support or more detail provided by the service area determination process of .

Prior to turning to it may be useful to explain that the inventors recognized that it is beneficial and desirable to anticipate or derive the intent of a searcher or user of a search engine or searching tool on a website based on the geographic search terms entered into a search or query input box rather than offering a geotargeting method based on a user s IP address. While IP based geotargeting can be effective at a national state and sometimes at a city level it cannot provide the granularity required to support truly local ad targeting. To address this and other needs the inventors developed a tool that incorporates user intent by selecting and providing relevant and actionable geographic modifiers to online advertisers of services to drive higher conversion rates for the online advertisers that use some or all of the modifiers in their websites and or online advertising.

Local advertisers have not felt comfortable spending money for online campaigns because current geotargeting tools primarily IP lookup offered by Quova MaxMind Digital Envoy Akamai and others do not typically provide meaningful precision with their accuracy determined only at the national state and maybe city DMA. Anything more granular drastically decreases the confidence that can be offered by these IP based tools and the online advertisers waste their spend for clicks and other paid advertising budget outside the desired geographic service area. The inventors also recognize that it may be useful to allow users to define their own geographic service area or to define the service area based on business type and or other parameters such as whether the business in a rural or urban location e.g. for a hardware store in an urban setting the service area might be defined by a 5 mile radius from the location of the store while for a car dealership the service area may extend 40 miles in all directions for the car lot location . One reason for the low precision in IP based geotargeting has to do with ISPs using load balancers and proxy server. This hardware is very efficient at evenly distributing Internet traffic but it has the unintended consequence of making packets appear that they came from somewhere other than where they really came from e.g. one example of this is dial up subscribers IP address for a national company all being listed or determined as a single city regardless of actual location of the subscriber s computer Internet access node .

The GeoMods Web service determines an appropriate service area and then via communications queries a spatial database to obtain a list of geo keywords that define the service area with geographically based keywords or phrases e.g. terms or phrases often used by individual online searchers to obtain information relevant to the geographic locality associated with or at least partially overlapping the geographic area of the determined service area . The web service may be a programmatic application that automatically processes the input and returns keywords or it may be fully or partially interactive e.g. prompting a user operator of platform for input such as service area defining parameters . The keywords are returned via communications to the GeoMods web service which in turn sends this output as is e.g. in plain text making it easy to integrate into campaign management platforms or the like or in a report form or to fill in a GUI at the platform or the like via communications e.g. communications per TCP IP or other Internet protocol or via a wireless communications link between platform and web service .

The spatial database includes a number of keyword classes each containing numerous geo keywords or geographically based terms phrases and the keyword classes are searchable and or indexed for searching using geographic data such as a service area definition created by the GeoMods web service based on data received from advertising platform . The keywords may also be returned according to or grouped into the classes e.g. a set of keywords from the parks class may be returned for a business area such as to facilitate a user operator of platform in determining which keywords to include in website content or in online advertising campaigns to attract qualified or relevant online traffic e.g. a sporting goods store or a toy store may want to include keywords from the parks class while an upscale clothing boutique may not so as to target their market . The classes may include neighborhoods zip codes municipal boundaries state boundaries parks schools geographic features houses of worship political boundaries museums and other landmarks mass transit systems stations and other classes useful for defining a locality e.g. airports hospitals cultural attractions street names post offices and so on and geo keywords would be stored in or associated with each of these classes in the database or data store .

The GeoMods web service may be thought of as a synthetic geotargeting tool that in some embodiments takes a business address and user provider service area or web service generated service area e.g. a radius a municipal boundary an area restricted by ZIP and or a combination of these and or other service area defining parameters and the service returns a series of geographic keywords or geo keywords geomodifiers or GeoMods that can be used as metadata to associate with the business listing for online content and or paid advertising. For example the returned geo keywords can be used as additional keywords in a paid search e.g. in or with Google s AdSense Microsoft s AdCenter Yahoo s Panama and or other paid search contextual advertising platforms. The geo keyword may be used in other portions of SEM or search marketing processes. The keywords may be provided in or as metadata that may be used to optimize organic listings on search engines also known as SEO or search engine optimization.

The spatial database typically contains a great amount of geographically based data . The data or keywords or service area defining terms phrases may include terms or phrases regarding administrative boundaries locations of parks schools churches water bodies postal codes transit hubs subway lines bus stations area codes and the like. This spatial warehouse may also contain a neighborhood database such as built and or created per the techniques and methods described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 941 698 entitled Geocoding Based on Neighborhoods and Other Uniquely Defined Informal Spaces or Geographic Regions which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The system also may include a monitor for displaying a GUI which may show a keyword request screen created or served by generator system and or show results of a geo keyword generation process of the system . The system further is shown to include memory that stores geographic keywords returned as set from the generator system . In practice these keywords are typically used by an operator of the system to modify or create one or more website definitions e.g. to change content so as to better direct relevant or qualified traffic to the website such as by including metadata with a set of the returned received geo keywords . In other cases the keywords are used to improve online paid advertising results by providing these keywords or a subset to a search engine provider or an associated ad server platform to obtain better presentation or more targeting to searchers interested in a locality including a service area shown at by more effectively serving of geotargeted ads website links .

To this end the system includes a plurality of searcher nodes e.g. user computer devices or electronic devices such as cell phones PDAs and the like adapted for accessing the Internet to search for information via a search engine served by search engine provider system . As shown the searcher node may provide a web browser or other access device to a search engine provider . The browser or its GUI includes a search box or similar device component to allow an operator of the searcher node to enter search terms and these terms are compared by the search engine provider to perform a search and return a SERP that includes an area with site links based on a ranking of the page site content e.g. metadata or the like . The SERF also includes a set of geotargeted ads that may include ads site links and these are chosen based on matches with the advertisers geographic keywords and or . In other words the served ads may be chosen based on how well the geo keywords and or match the user s search terms entered in the search box. In this manner the served ads are based on the intent of the searcher as inferred by their search terms search content rather than simply based on their IP address or their user profile.

The geomod generator system is linked to the client system such as via the Internet or other digital data communications link and the system may be a server or other computer device system to perform the keyword generator functions described herein. As shown the system includes a CPU that runs or manages I O devices monitor with GUI and memory . The processor also runs a geo keyword generator engine that operates to process a keyword request from the client system to return a geo keyword set . The generator engine may include a service area determination module that retrieves a business or center location for a business or service provider or other online advertising entity and service area data and processes this information to create or determine a service area . In some cases the service area may be formed based on a default service area which may be chosen based on the service area data such as a business type travel distance travel time and or other parameters provided in data and or generated by module e.g. determining whether location is rural or urban . The default service area may be a simple circular area with a particular radius or may be an area with a predefined boundary e.g. a neighborhood boundary a county boundary or the like .

In other cases though the service area determination module performs one or more algorithms to define the service area . For example a time cost modeling module may be utilized to model one or more areas to match a maximum travel time provided by the user in service area data e.g. based on population density road types and other information for the geographical areas proximate or about the center location . These areas that can be reached within the allowed travel time may be combined to form the determined service area . illustrates with mapping diagram a set of differing service areas that may be defined for a single business or center geographic location such as an address with differing operations of the area determination module .

For example a first service area may be defined when a user provides a business location along with a business type in the service area definition data of the keyword request . The area may be a default area retrieved using the business type with a preset shape size e.g. a radius chosen for the business type such as a few blocks for a coffee shop a few miles for a gas station and many miles for a provider of expensive goods services. Other shapes for the area may be utilized with regular or irregular outer boundaries rather than a perimeter of circle as shown for illustrative purposes in . In another example a second service area may be generated about the center location using a user input or defined service area size e.g. a user may provide a travel distance that is assumed simply to be a radius . In other cases the area may be more irregular such as if the user provides a maximum drive time which may be used to generate a number of service subareas or polygons in which the travel time or time cost is less than or averages to be less than the maximum travel time provided by the user or by a system administrator based on the business type . These service subareas or polygons may then be combined to form a larger service area or area stored in memory . The irregular nature of the polygons or subareas arises from the fact that not all travel times are equal especially within an urban setting or an area with irregular terrain e.g. a 10 minute drive may encompass a 10 mile distance in some directions from location but much less in other directions due to irregular paths speed limits traffic congestion and so on . In other cases a service area may be generated with the system or module acting to create the size e.g. based on a user input or system selected maximum drive or travel time but the boundary may be further modified to account for other boundaries selected by the user or by the module such as a state city or similar boundary and or a geographic boundary such as a mountain range a river or the like.

With the service area the generator engine acts to access one or more spatial databases that store keyword records and to search these keywords records with the service area data such as by finding matching geographic links terms in the records and then retrieving a list of the keywords or keyword phrases e.g. a name of a neighborhood a name of a park a name of landmark and so on that are located within or associated with the defined service area or locality of the business service provider associated with the central location . These keyword phrases are returned in a set to the client system for storage and use to enhance its website rankings and or geotargeted advertising.

Through the use of the systems or when a user such as an advertising agency or an advertiser uses the service or system a series of geographic keywords is returned that are germane to the service area defined for a business service provider or advertiser. Depending on the service area and the types of geographic terms desired or associated with the service area there could be only a few keywords up to 100 s or 1 000 s of geo keywords returned for a given business location and service area. Similar to how keywords are bid on in various interactive advertising platforms geo keywords will have increased value over time. This is partially because all or portions of the keywords in the spatial databases such as a database of neighborhoods may be licensed or otherwise provided to major web portals which will in turn drive greater consumer awareness and acceptance of these geographic search terms. The geomod generator system and web service may be used to determine if a business service area falls within a given neighborhood or is associated with other spatial keywords and when appropriate make the keyword s available to them. The generators may include such as via licensing or otherwise obtaining permission geographic entities or keyword phrases records from third parties e.g. point of interest POI data may be licensed from NAVTEQ and others . The spatial data and keywords may be altered over time to practice the invention e.g. new thematic layers may be collected keyword phrases may be sourced from other parties and the like and used to update the spatial databases . Hence it may be useful to repeat the keyword requests to obtain updated keyword result sets and perform additional SEO optimization and geotargeting processes.

The geomods generator service engine may be used programmatically via writing code or interactively via web browser . The service in some embodiments uses a REST protocol and request types can be defined by entity e.g. geographic type and service area can be defined by a point long lat and radius bounding box long lat pair ZIP centroid and restricted in many varied ways. Such additional system implemented and or user defined restriction s is useful for many service providers that may not provide their services to customers within a simple circular area. For example an insurance office located in Trenton N.J. wants to define its service area as 60 miles but an insurance company office may be legally restricted from marketing insurance products in Pennsylvania adjoining states countries . In this case the generator service engine may process the query to determine a base service area and then apply restrictions to further define with additional boundaries e.g. to exclude areas e.g. could structure the service area so as to return all geographic entities within a 60 mile radius but restricted to the state of New Jersey. Processes and systems in accordance with the invention seek to address the intent of a user rather than where she is located. This is achieved in part by returning geographic entities or geo keywords within a given area or associated with a given service area. The results can be used in interactive advertising and search optimization SEO programs.

To enhance and automate the selection of the geographic keywords it is useful to associate a given business category with a service area. Business categories in some embodiments are organized under several taxonomies. For example yellow pages type classification of business types is one commonly used format and the US Bureau of the Census NAICS North American Industry Classification System which is a hierarchical index of industries may also be used. It is the successor to SIC Standard Industrial Classification codes. When an industry keyword e.g. plumber is provided as the business type the geomods system engine relates that to a suggested service area e.g. a default area and or size and or drive time or distance . Similarly if a NAICS or SIC code is entered the geomods system engine will return a suggested service area for this business type.

In this manner the processes of the invention recognize that different business types will have different service areas e.g. a car dealership will have a broader service area than for example a grocery store. It also may be that for example a coffee shop e.g. a particular business or service provider may have a broader service area in a suburban outlying rural area than a coffee shop in an urban environment. Similarly an automotive dealership will have a broader service territory than a dry cleaner. Factors and or defining parameters that influence a service area size and shape may include competing businesses within the same geographic region accessibility to parking and or mass transit willingness of customers service providers to commute by foot bicycle automobile mass transit or other modes a given amount of time natural landforms e.g. mountains non navigable bodies of water and so on and other factors. These inputs are typically not specific to an individual business or proprietary. Other inputs such as demographics retail sales and so on may be specific to an individual business and or store location e.g. have to be user provided in many cases and be of value for the purposes of planning new facilities site planning as well as targeted advertising based on geography service area.

According to some aspects the invention seeks to dynamically represent a business service area based on non proprietary factors such as those stored in spatial databases as discussed above. Service area determination may be based on a user provided maximum travel time and the service area may be derived as being the polygon area s delineating any location reachable within that amount of time specified. For plumbers and other service providers that go to their customer s locations the service area is their travel range while for a grocery store or other stationary anchored service providers the service area identifies where potential customers may be coming from to obtain their goods and or services.

Service area determination in some cases relies on two parameters the maximum travel time and the time cost associated with traversing a segment of the street network from origin outward. Maximum travel time is in reality localized or specific to the consumer e.g. a rural resident will travel 60 minutes to a movie theatre for lack of any other options while an urbanite will travel 30 minutes or less for example . For a simplifying assumption the maximum travel time typically is localized to the origin or business center location. Time duration is a summation of a function per segment of a shortest path. This may be modeled by involving or considering population density road types and intersection types local to the road topological network connecting to the business location. A service provider or customer slows down on a freeway less in dense areas than on arterials in dense areas for example. The parameters are manually tuned and are based on a that looks about right estimation of the results in some cases where an operator tunes the parameters to provide enhanced modeling of service areas. The resulting output may be a polygon or more accurately a series of polygons each representing regions within the actual service area and their approximate travel time . Following from this certain classes of terms may be more or less relevant to the approximate travel time e.g. civic institutions and neighborhoods are relevant at the hyper local level and city names counties and states are more relevant as distance increases. The polygonal service area s can then be used to extract the relevant geographically modified keywords or geomods as discussed previously.

At the method includes determining with the generator engine service a service area for geotargeting of searchers or online users of a search engine website based upon the received service area definition data. At the spatial database is accessed by the generator engine service and at a geo keyword set or list is generated by applying the determined service area to the spatial database. At the keyword list is transmitted from the generator engine service to the requesting user or client device e.g. for display in their GUI and or storage in the client memory or memory accessible by the client device . At the client system may use the set of geo keywords or geomods to generate or modify a website definition e.g. by including some or all of the keywords or keyword phrases in site content or in metadata and or to enhance paid advertising results by providing the geo keywords to an ad server or search engine provider for use in geotargeting online ads within returned SERPs. At the website or advertising search terms are provided to the search engine or published for inclusion in search engine databases and at geotargeting may be performed by the search engine ad server by comparing search terms provided by online users of the search engine or searchers with the geo keywords to at least in part determine which advertisers ads and or website links to include in SERPs returned to the searchers. At the method is ended.

At when the user has requested a non default service area the method continues at with retrieving a maximum drive time from the service area data provided by the client or requester. At the method may include retrieving other service area defining factors or restrictions e.g. within a particular state on one side of a geographic feature such as a river or mountain range on one side of a street i.e. the street provides a boundary of the service area in one direction for example and or the like . At the method includes determining the time cost model for the business or service provider such as with the time cost modeling module shown in . At the generator engine service acts to generate a geographic mapping or model of the service area about the center location or business address and this may involve identifying a plurality of polygons that fit the maximum drive time time cost model and or restrictions and then combining these polygons or service subareas to create a service area typically with an irregular outer perimeter or boundary . Then at the service area is returned to the generator engine service for use in accessing or searching the spatial database for a set of corresponding geo keywords.

Although the invention has been described and illustrated with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the combination and arrangement of parts can be resorted to by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as hereinafter claimed. For example the geotargeting methods described herein may readily be applied to mobile Internet consumers e.g. to provide geographic and or demographic targeting . In the field of online advertising industry analysts regularly speak of massive growth in online advertising. With an estimated 15 million small businesses in the United States alone the opportunity to migrate this ad spend online represents a significant opportunity. However small and medium sized businesses SMBs are reluctant to use all digital advertising as the benefits are not yet well proven. In the offline world direct marketing has been viewed as a much larger cousin of local search. Direct marketing programs tend to be offered by database marketers who have compiled significant amounts of demographic and behavioral data about consumers. This is often based on data from the U.S. Census and then augmented with a variety of third party databases. Typically a customer of a direct marketing firm would articulate or define their target consumer such as by age spending habits location and the like and the vendor will provide a list of names addresses and telephone numbers for those who meet the required variables. While this solution is far from perfect it is one efficient means of targeting specific groups of consumers.

Interactive marketing has evolved differently such that users are targeted based on IP address. With the advent of mobile advertising marketers and others have the ability to know a user s location with greater specificity. This may be done through several location finding techniques. The common means of determining location of a mobile user include triangulation based on proximity to a wireless Internet access point known as WiFi triangulation popularized by Skyhook Wireless and others triangulation proximity to cell towers whereby a database of cell tower locations is resolved to a ing lat and GPS through which location is determined buy triangulation of three or more orbiting satellites. However the user still may be using the Internet to search outside their current location and the geotargeting methods described herein may be applied to these mobile online searchers or Internet users.

Further in the context of mobile marketing and geotargeting many marketers are not experienced with the specific methods of advertising to mobile devices. The cost to market to them in a fundamentally different way has caused great marketer and therefore advertiser reluctance. This invention may be used to effectively merge offline and online prospects giving a marketer a portfolio view of customers. For example by overlaying a user s location onto a spatial database of demographic data marketers can associate individual ing lat with demographic data e.g. the intent based geotargeting may in some embodiments be combined with or used concurrently with mobile user location based geotargeting . This in turn gives the advertiser the opportunity to target that location via offline or online media.

From the above it can be seen the computer based methods and functions provide enhanced geotargeting of online advertising. In some embodiments of the methods keywords are stored in the database so as to be spatially indexed by the locations or regions they represent e.g. region of reference . Each request to the geomods API may generate a spatial service area by naming a region a geocoding address a drive time and the like. The list of keywords returned for a request is in some cases composed of those terms whose region of reference spatially overlaps with the defined service area. In other words the spatial database is doing geometry with a number of latitude and longitude values or other spatial defining information to find relevant keywords. This is one key distinction for the methods described herein relative to a keyword expansion service e.g. a thesaurus based service or the like . In some cases a client user of the geomods service may specify which types of keywords the service should return in the geo keyword set and or may make such a decision specification based on NAICS code for example. Related to these functions features keywords may also be indexed by their type category. Additional data may be used to enhance the returned keywords and additional data may be used to initially select the keyword set.

Further meta information such as population cost per click CPC social characteristics and the like may be associated with the keywords and returned to the requester in the geo keyword set for their use in geotargeting or for other uses. The provision of CPC information is important in some applications because all keywords have different bid prices based on actual demand for those terms. The CPC meta information for each keyword may be used to tell the current average price of the keyword in question which is useful to help determine the relative merits of buying a specific keyword e.g. if Manhattan costs 3 per click and NYC costs 1 per click the latter may yield enough clicks and therefore leads to be worthwhile . Similarly keyword volume reveals the relative uniqueness of the term e.g. how many users are searching on a search engine using that term .

The methods described above provide a number of unique functions and or advantages. The methods include service area generation determination. This determination of a proper service area may use a variety of variables such as location business category business size geography demographics drive times and more. Another unique aspect it the generation mapping of keywords and keyword groups from spatially indexed databases to service area e.g. based on business type and size geography and demographics . Further advertising platforms and search engines are enhanced and or their operations are enhanced e.g. improved geotargeting of online ads and the like through the use of the service area generation and keyword keyword groups mapping to service areas.

