---

title: Surface protected lithium-metal-oxide electrodes
abstract: A lithium-metal-oxide positive electrode having a layered or spinel structure for a non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell and battery is disclosed comprising electrode particles that are protected at the surface from undesirable effects, such as electrolyte oxidation, oxygen loss or dissolution by one or more lithium-metal-polyanionic compounds, such as a lithium-metal-phosphate or a lithium-metal-silicate material that can act as a solid electrolyte at or above the operating potential of the lithium-metal-oxide electrode. The surface protection significantly enhances the surface stability, rate capability and cycling stability of the lithium-metal-oxide electrodes, particularly when charged to high potentials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09306210&OS=09306210&RS=09306210
owner: UCHICAGO ARGONNE, LLC
number: 09306210
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140709
---
This application division of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 694 422 filed on Jan. 27 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 148 266 filed on Jan. 29 2009 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the United States Government and The University of Chicago and or pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

This invention relates to non aqueous lithium cells and batteries. Such cells and batteries are used widely to power numerous devices for example portable electronic appliances and medical transportation aerospace and defense systems.

This invention relates to positive electrodes cathodes for lithium cells and batteries. More specifically the invention relates to lithium metal oxide electrodes notably those having layered type or spinel type structures or combinations thereof which are composed of surface protected lithium metal oxide particles. The invention extends to electrodes in which the oxygen ions of the closed packed spinel and layered structures are partially replaced by other anionic species such as fluoride ions. A particular embodiment of this invention is that the surface of the lithium metal oxide electrode particles are protected by one or more lithium metal polyanionic materials for example a lithium metal phosphate a lithium metal silicate or the like such as a lithium nickel phosphate or a lithium nickel silicate that can act as a lithium ion conductor at or above the operating potential of the lithium metal oxide positive electrode thereby protecting the surface of the electrode from undesirable effects such as electrolyte oxidation oxygen loss or dissolution. Such surface protection significantly enhances the surface stability rate capability and cycling stability of high capacity lithium metal oxide electrodes for lithium ion cells and batteries particularly when charged to high potentials.

As used herein the term lithium metal oxide and grammatical variations thereof refers to lithium metal oxide compounds which can optionally include lithium metal oxides in which some oxygen ions have been replaced by other anionic species such as fluoride ions. The term lithium metal polyanionic material and grammatical variations thereof refers to materials having a general formula that comprises at least one lithium cation at least one other metal cation e.g. a Ni or Co cation and at least one polyanion e.g. phosphate silicate tungstate molybdate etc. .

Conventional lithium ion battery cathodes such as layered LiCoO spinel LiMnO olivine LiFePOand compositional variations thereof do not deliver sufficient electrochemical capacity and power to satisfy the driving range requirements for plug in hybrid electric vehicles PHEVs and all electric vehicles. Moreover there is a growing demand to increase the energy and power of lithium ion batteries for other wide ranging applications such as portable electronic devices medical devices aerospace and defense applications and for stand alone energy storage. Conventional electrode materials such as LiCoO LiMnOand LiFePOtypically deliver capacities of 100 160 mAh g between 4.2 and 3.0 V at moderate to high rates. Layered LiMOcompounds in which M is selected typically from electroactive metal cations such as Mn Co Ni and additional stabilizing cations such as Li and Al provide the best opportunity to increase the electrode capacity and hence the energy of lithium ion cells and batteries because they offer a maximum capacity of up to approximately 280 mAh g at potentials greater than 3.0 V vs. metallic lithium. However the highly oxidizing character and instability of lithium metal oxide electrodes in particular at low lithium loadings as well as solubility effects has limited the extent to which this high capacity can be realized particularly at high rates.

Several efforts have already been made in the past to overcome the stability and solubility problems associated with lithium metal oxide electrodes. For example considerable success has been achieved by stabilizing electrodes by pre treating the electrode powders with oxide additives such as AlOor ZrOobtained from metal alkoxide precursors such as solutions containing aluminum ethylhexanoate diisopropoxide Al OOCH OCH or zirconium ethylhexanoate isopropoxide Zr OOCH OCHH as described for example by J. Cho et al. in Chemistry of Materials Volume 12 page 3788 2000 and J. Cho et al. in Electrochemical and Solid State Letters Volume 4 No. 10 page A159 2001 respectively or a zirconium oxide polymeric precursor or zirconium oxynitrate ZrO NO .xHO as described by Z. Chen et al. in Electrochemical and Solid State Letters Volume 5 No. 10 page A213 2002 prior to the fabrication of the final electrode thereby making the surface of the LiCoOparticles more resistant to electrolyte attack cobalt dissolution or oxygen loss effects. Colloidal particles have also been used to protect lithium metal oxide electrode surfaces as described by Oesten et al. in US Patent Application 2001 0046628 and by Kim et al. in the Journal of the Electrochemical Society Volume 151 page A1755 2004 . More recently Manthiram et al. in the Journal of The Electrochemical Society Volume 155 page A635 2008 and Sun et al. in the Journal of The Electrochemical Society Volume 154 page A168 2007 and have shown that AlPOand AlFcoatings respectively improve the electrochemical cycling stability of lithium metal oxide electrodes. Despite the success of improving the performance of lithium ion cells by coating individual electrode particles with colloidal AlOor ZrOparticles or with AlPO the coatings themselves either generally impede lithium diffusion in and out of the layered electrode structure during electrochemical discharge and charge lowering the rate capability of the cells. On the other hand although AlFcoatings reported by Sun et al. as referenced above were shown by impedance spectroscopy to increase the rate capability of Li NiCoMn Oelectrodes when charged to 4.6 V the capacity delivered by the electrodes was only about 160 mAh g when discharged at a C 1 rate.

The loss of oxygen from lithium metal oxide electrodes such as layered LiCoOand LiNiCoOelectrodes can contribute to exothermic reactions with the electrolyte and with the lithiated carbon negative electrode and subsequently to thermal runaway if the temperature of the cell reaches a critical value. Further improvements in the composition and structure of the surfaces of lithium metal oxide electrodes are therefore still required to protect the intrinsic capacity of the electrode from decay and to improve the overall performance and safety of lithium ion cells without compromising the rate capability of the electrode.

Lithium metal oxides with a spinel type structure are particularly attractive lithium ion battery electrodes for high power applications. Of particular significance is the lithium manganese oxide spinel LiMnO and its cation substituted derivatives LiMnMO in which M is one or more metal ions typically a monovalent or a multivalent cation such as Li Mg and Al as reported by Gummow et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 316 877 and in Solid State Ionics Volume 69 page 59 1994 . It is well known that LiMnOand metal substituted LiMnMOspinel electrodes are chemically unstable in a lithium ion cell environment particularly at high potentials and or when the cell operating temperature is raised above room temperature when manganese ions from the spinel electrodes tend to dissolve in the electrolyte. This process is believed to contribute to the capacity loss of the cells at elevated temperatures. Moreover the removal of all the lithium from LiMnMOspinel electrodes notably LiMnO x 0 yields a MnMO MnO x 0 component which itself is a strong oxidizing agent. The surface of such delithiated spinel electrodes can have a high oxygen activity thereby possibly inducing unwanted oxidation reactions with the electrolyte. Although considerable progress has been made to suppress the solubility and high temperature performance of spinel electrodes and to improve their stability by cation doping as described for example by Gummow et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 316 877 or by forming oxyfluoride compounds as described by Amatucci et al. in the Journal of the Electrochemical Society Volume 149 page K31 2002 and by Choi et al. in Electrochemical and Solid State Letters Volume 9 page A245 A248 2006 or by surface coatings as described by Kim et al. in the Journal of the Electrochemical Society Volume 151 page A1755 2004 these treatments have not yet entirely overcome the cycling instability of cells containing manganese based spinel electrodes.

Considerable progress has been made over recent years to stabilize cubic close packed layered lithium metal oxide electrode systems by using lithium and manganese rich composite electrode structures xLiMnO. 1 x LiMOin which M is for example Mn Ni and or Co as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 677 082 and 6 680 143 and by Kim et al. in Chemistry of Materials Volume 16 page 1996 2004 and by Thackeray et al. in the Journal of Materials Chemistry Volume 17 page 3112 2007 . These electrodes can deliver essentially all their theoretical capacity 240 250 mAh g at relatively low rate for example C 24 as reported by Johnson et al. in Electrochemistry Communications Volume 6 page 1085 2004 . Composite electrode structures containing cubic close packed layered and spinel components such as xLiMnO. 1 x LiMnMOin which M is a metal cation selected preferably from Li Ni Co Al and Mg have also been disclosed as described for example by Johnson et al. in Electrochemistry Communications Volume 7 page 528 2005 and by Thackeray et al. in the Journal of Materials Chemistry Volume 15 page 2257 2005 . These composite electrodes form because of the structural compatibility of the cubic close packed oxygen arrays of the individual lithium metal oxide components. The integrated structures are highly complex and are often characterized by complicated cation arrangements with short range order.

When the manganese and nickel ions are nearest neighbors in layered and spinel electrode structures and in the composite electrode structures described above they tend to adopt tetravalent and divalent oxidation states respectively. The lithium and transition metal ions are distributed in highly complex arrangements the Li and Mn ions are arranged in small localized regions to give the structure LiMnO like character. Composite layered materials can be represented either in two component notation xLiMnO. 1 x LiMO in which the close packed LiMnOand LiMOcomponents are structurally integrated or alternatively when normalized in standard layered rock salt notation as LiMnMO. The LiMnOcomponent that supplies surplus lithium to the layered structure plays a critical role in stabilizing the electrode structure at low lithium loadings on lithium extraction lithium ions in the transition metal layers diffuse into the lithium depleted layers to provide sufficient binding energy to maintain the integrity of the close packed oxygen array.

Electrochemical extraction of lithium from xLiMnO. 1 x LiMOduring the initial charge occurs in two steps. When taken to completion above 4.6 V vs. Li the ideal reactions can be represented LiMO MO Li 1 LiMnO MnO 2Li O 2 2 

Despite the removal of lithium and oxygen from the LiMnOcomponent the layered character of the residual MnOcomponent remains remarkably intact. The highly oxidizing nature of both the MOand MnOcomponents however can result in oxygen loss at the particle surface particularly when M Co and or Ni thereby damaging the electrode surface electrolyte oxidation can also occur at these high potentials. These factors limit the rate at which lithium can be reinserted into the charged high capacity xMnO. 1 x MOelectrode. These electrodes also tend to lose capacity on cycling.

Attempts to stabilize cubic close packed layered as well as spinel lithium metal oxide structures by integrating them with a hexagonal close packed olivine structure have thus far been unsuccessful. For example R. M. Ward et al. in the U.S. Department of Energy Journal of Undergraduate Research Volume VI page 91 2006 demonstrated in their studies of reactions of LiNiPO olivine and LiNiMnO layered and Li NiMn O spinel precursors that the X ray diffraction data of the products showed a complex mixture of phases rather than structurally integrated LiNiPO LiNiMnO olivine layered and LiNiPO Li NiMn O olivine spinel composite materials. Thackeray et al. reported at the 25International Battery Seminar and Exhibit Fort Lauderdale Fla. Mar. 17 20 2008 and at the International Workshop on Fundamentals of Lithium based Batteries Schloss Ringberg Tegernsee Germany Nov. 23 28 2008 that high resolution transmission electron diffraction of olivine LiNiPOand spinel LiNiVOprecursors after reaction at elevated temperatures existed as discrete olivine and spinel phases respectively rather than as an integrated structure.

Despite the apparent inability of olivine compounds LiMPO M Mn Fe Co Ni with a PO polyanionic framework to form integrated epitaxially grown structures with layered and spinel lithium metal oxides it has now been discovered that depositing a lithium metal phosphate material for example a Li Ni POmaterial onto the surface of a layered lithium metal oxide using a sol gel method followed by a heat treatment step significantly enhances the surface stability rate capability and cycling stability of lithium metal oxide electrodes particularly when charged to high potentials thereby allowing high capacities to be delivered at improved rates. The principles of this invention therefore can be extended to other types of lithium metal oxide structures that suffer from chemical and electrochemical instabilities at high potentials for example the family of lithium manganese oxides with a spinel type structure and substituted variations thereof. These advances are particularly relevant to lithium ion batteries that power applications such as cell phones laptop computers power tools hybrid plug in hybrid and all electric vehicles for which the demand for higher energy and power batteries is growing. These new advances were first disclosed in concept and in practical data by Thackeray et al. at the 25International Battery Seminar and Exhibit Fort Lauderdale Fla. Mar. 17 20 2008 and at the International Workshop on Fundamentals of Lithium based Batteries Schloss Ringberg Tegernsee Germany Nov. 23 28 2008 respectively.

This invention relates to positive electrodes cathodes for lithium cells and batteries. More specifically the invention relates to surface protected lithium metal oxide electrodes notably those having layered type or spinel type structures or combinations thereof. The invention extends to electrodes in which the oxygen ions of the closed packed spinel and layered structures are partially replaced by and contain other anionic species such as fluoride ions. In one embodiment the lithium metal oxide electrode is comprised of a one or more layered compounds represented by the general formula xLiM O. 1 x LiMOin which M comprises one or more metal ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state and M comprises one or more metal ions with an average trivalent oxidation state as described and defined more fully by Thackeray et al. in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 677 082 and 6 680 143. In a preferred embodiment the M comprises Mn and M comprises one or more metal ions selected preferably from Mn Ni and Co. A second embodiment of this invention is that the surface of the lithium metal oxide electrode particles is protected by and comprised of one or more lithium metal polyanionic materials such as a lithium metal phosphate a lithium metal silicate or the like in which the polyanion is comprised of a negatively charged species that contains more than one atom type for example WO MoO SO PO SiO. In a preferred embodiment the negatively charged species are metal free polyanions such as PO and SiO. In another preferred embodiment the lithium metal polyanionic materials can act as lithium ion conductors at or above the operating potential of the lithium metal oxide positive electrode to provide access of the lithium ions from the electrolyte to the electrode during discharge and vice versa during charge while simultaneously protecting the surface of the electrode from undesirable effects such as electrolyte oxidation oxygen loss or dissolution. Such surface protection significantly enhances the surface stability rate capability and cycling stability of the lithium metal oxide electrodes particularly when charged to high potentials.

In another embodiment of this invention the positive electrodes are protected by a modified surface surface layer or coating comprising a lithium metal polyanionic material that is stable at and or above the operating electrochemical potential of the lithium metal oxide electrode. It is desirable that the modified surface surface layer or coating should act predominantly or exclusively as a stable lithium ion conductor that operates preferably at or above 4 V more preferably at or above 4.5 V and most preferably at or above 5.0 V versus metallic lithium thereby allowing the electrode to operate repeatedly at high rates without subjecting the modified surface surface layer or coating to potentially damaging redox reactions that might affect the electrochemical properties of the electrode. The lithium metal polyanionic material may be comprised of lithium one or more metals and one or more polyanions. In addition the lithium metal polyanionic material may be amorphous or alternatively it may be poorly crystalline or strongly crystalline with either stoichiometric structures or cation and or anion defect structures. Therefore in this embodiment the positive electrode comprises lithium metal oxide particles the surface of the particles comprising a lithium metal polyanionic material the general formula of which comprises at least one lithium cation at least one other metal cation and at least one polyanion.

The lithium metal polyanionic material is comprised preferably of one or more lithium metal phosphate or lithium metal silicate materials for example those selected from the family of lithium nickel phosphate lithium cobalt phosphate lithium magnesium phosphate lithium nickel silicate lithium cobalt silicate and lithium magnesium silicate materials. In a further preferred embodiment the lithium metal polyanionic material is comprised of a lithium nickel phosphate lithium cobalt phosphate lithium magnesium phosphate lithium nickel silicate lithium cobalt silicate and lithium magnesium silicate compositions and structures including stoichiometric or defect olivine related LiMPOstructures for example M Ni Co Mg Zn LiPO related structures as well as metal substituted LiPO related structures such as defect LiMPO for example M Ni Co Mg Zn 0

The lithium metal polyanionic material of this invention may also include LiPOas a component of the protective layer. In this respect LiPOmay either be the major component 50 or the minor component 

In a further embodiment the invention is extended to include LiSiO related compositions and structures and substituted compositions and structures for example metal substituted defect LiMSiOstructures in which M is one or more divalent cations such as Ni Co Mg and Zn and 0

The invention includes experimental procedures and treatments for depositing the protective layers onto or coating the lithium metal oxide electrodes. Examples include in particular standard sol gel rf magnetron sputtering and or atomic layer deposition techniques. Because the precise nature of the modified surface surface layer or coating is not known the terms surface treatment and surface coating as disclosed in this specification are used synonymously and interchangeably.

The following examples describe the principles of the invention as contemplated by the inventors but they are not to be construed as limiting examples.

A mildly fluorinated 0.5LiMnO.0.5LiNiCoMnO LiMnNiCoO electrode was prepared from a powdered precursor as described previously by Kang et al. in the Journal of the Electrochemical Society Volume 153 page A1186 2006 . A lithium nickel phosphate protective material was applied to the electrode powder using a sol gel method by immersing and treating the powder in an acidic solution pH

Powder X ray diffraction XRD patterns of Li Ni PO coated samples were collected on a Siemens D5000 diffractometer CuK between 10 and 80 2 . Coin type cells 2032 Hohsen were constructed from the coated powder in an argon filled glovebox 

The powder X ray diffraction patterns of the parent mildly fluorinated 0.5LiMnO.0.5LiNiCoMnOmaterial and the Li Ni PO coated sample are shown in patterns a and b respectively . The pattern of the uncoated sample pattern a is typical of layered xLiMnO. 1 x LiMOmaterials it shows the characteristic weak ordering peaks from the LiMnO type component at 21 25 2 . The XRD pattern of the Li Ni PO coated sample pattern b is essentially identical to the parent compound it shows a minor amount of LiPOand or structurally related LiNiPO and a few additional weak unidentified peaks. The detailed nature of the surface structure is currently unknown.

It is already known that fluorination improves the room temperature cycling stability of layered lithium metal oxide electrodes and that the fluorine component resides predominantly at the particle surface as described for example by Kang et al. in the Journal of Power Sources Volume 146 page 654 2005 Park et al. in the Journal of Power Sources Volume 178 page 826 2008 and Kim et al. in the Journal of the Electrochemical Society Volume 152 page A1707 2005 . Surface fluorination of 0.1LiMnO.0.9LiMnNiCoO Li MnNiCo O electrodes using mildly acidic fluorinated solutions improves their rate capability as described by Kang et al. in the Journal of the Electrochemical Society Volume 155 page A269 2008 in this instance at 1.0 mA cm which approximates a C 1 rate the parent electrode yielded approximately 160 mAh g whereas the fluorinated electrode yielded 175 mAh g.

The voltage profiles of the initial charge discharge cycle of lithium half cells with the uncoated and Li Ni PO coated 0.5LiMnO.0.5LiNiCoMnOelectrodes of this invention obtained at 0.1 mA cm 

The relative rate capability of uncoated and Li Ni PO coated electrodes is shown in graph a . The data indicate that the Li Ni PO coated electrode is significantly more tolerant to higher discharge than the uncoated parent 0.5LiMnO.0.5LiNiCoMnOelectrode and shows less polarization. The beneficial effect of the surface Li Ni POmaterial is more pronounced at high discharge rates the coated electrode showing a higher capacity retention at 1.0 mA cm 80 relative to the capacity at 0.1 mA cmthan the uncoated electrode 70 . The corresponding capacity vs. cycle number plots of these lithium cells for charge discharge currents of 0.1 1.0 and 2.0 mA cm emphasize the excellent and surprisingly superior cycling stability of the coated electrodes graph b .

Coatings were applied to mildly fluorinated electrode materials 0.5LiMnO.0.5LiNiCoMnO LiMnNiCoO following the same treatment to the powders as described in Example 1. In these experiments solutions containing various amounts of lithium nickel and phosphate ions were used in accordance with the formula LiNiPOfor x 0 0.25 and 0.75 such that a 2 mole percent coating was applied. In addition an electrode sample with a coating of 2 mole percent LiPOwas also prepared for comparison. In the final step the resulting Li Ni PO coated electrode products were dried by heating at about 550 C. for about 6 hours in air. The electrochemical properties of these electrode products were evaluated to determine in particular the effect that the various surface treatments or surface coatings had on coulombic efficiency and capacity when cells were cycled at various current rates.

Electrochemical cells were assembled as described in Example 1. Representative data for the various cells with an uncoated electrode x 0 a LiPO coated electrode and electrodes coated with LiNiPO x 0.25 and LiNiPO x 0.75 compositions are shown in respectively. The conditions under which the cells were cycled for example the operating voltage window current rates and average capacities at a particular current rate are provided in Table 1. For these comparative experiments the current rate was measured in terms of mA g rather than mA cm for greater accuracy.

This invention therefore relates to surface protected lithium metal oxides that can be used as positive electrodes for a non aqueous electrochemical lithium cell as shown schematically in the cell represented by the numeral having a negative electrode separated from a positive electrode by an electrolyte all contained in an insulating housing with suitable terminals not shown being provided in electronic contact with the negative electrode and the positive electrode . Binders and other materials normally associated with both the electrolyte and the negative and positive electrodes are well known in the art and are not described herein but are included as is understood by those of ordinary skill in this art. shows a schematic illustration of one example of a battery in which two strings of electrochemical lithium cells described above are arranged in parallel each string comprising three cells arranged in series.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

