---

title: Permission delegation technology
abstract: In one implementation, a computer system maintains one or more permissions associated with a credential held by a first user, where at least one of the one or more of permissions is delegatable by the first user to one or more other users. The computer system receives an indication that the first user has chosen to delegate a particular permission from amongst the one or more permissions to a second user, wherein the particular permission is needed to perform a particular type of action. Based on the first user indicating a choice to delegate the particular permission to the second user, the computer system associates the delegation of the particular permission with the second user. Based on delegating the particular permission with the second user, the computer system enables the second user to perform the particular type of action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450958&OS=09450958&RS=09450958
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09450958
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 791 040 filed Mar. 15 2013 and titled Permission Delegation which is incorporated by reference.

A user may be associated with a credential that confers permissions enabling the user to perform particular actions for example enabling the user to authorize or access particular actions events or locations.

A credential associated with a user may confer one or more permissions that enable the user to perform actions associated with those permissions. For example a credential granted to a user may confer permissions to the user that enable the user to authorize transactions or events enter specific locations access electronic information and or perform any type of action regulated by a permission system. In some instances credentials may be accessed and rendered at a client device associated with a user such as a smartphone or other mobile device enabling the user to remotely access and utilize permissions associated with a credential. The one or more permissions conferred by a credential may be delegatable permissions. In such instances a first user who holds a credential that confers a delegatable permission may request to delegate the permission to another second user for example by associating the permission with a credential held by the second user.

Techniques are described for delegating permissions associated with a first credential held by a first user to a second credential held by a second user. In some implementations credentials may be maintained and stored on a server and a user with a user account may have one or more credentials associated with that user account. A user may select a particular delegatable permission associated with one of those credentials and may delegate the permission to another user. In some instances delegating the permission to another user may involve adding the permission to a credential already associated with the other user. This may be achieved for example by accessing the credential on the server and modifying the credential to include the delegated permission. Alternatively in other instances delegating the permission to another user may involve creating a new and perhaps temporary credential for the other user and adding the permission to the new credential.

In some implementations user credentials may be configured such that permissions associated with the user credentials may have one or more conditions associated with the permission such as for example one or more geographic or temporal conditions. In delegating a permission to a second user a first user may apply one or more conditions to the delegated permission in such a manner that the recipient of the delegated permission may only utilize the delegated permission when the applied conditions are satisfied. A user may present a credential conferring a permission to perform an action in connection with an attempt to perform the action associated with the permission where presenting the credential may involve providing a representation of the credential for validation to demonstrate the user s permission to perform the action. In some instances a representation of a credential may include a quick response QR code a barcode an alphanumeric code or a code encoded in a signal such as within a sound signal a near field communication NFC signal and or other short wavelength radio transmissions e.g. in the ISM band from 2400 2480 MHz for example according to the Bluetooth standard.

Interface can include an option to select delegees to receive the permission associated with the credential in this instance the permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

Interface may also include an option to access conditions associated with the permission or to apply conditions governing the use of the permission by the delegee. For example upon selecting the option to access conditions associated with the permission the user may be provided with an interface displaying the usage conditions for the permission to the user. Additionally or alternatively the interface displaying the conditions of the permission may enable the user to modify the permission or to modify the conditions associated with a delegee accessing or using the permission. In some instances conditions applied to the use of a permission may include temporal or geographic conditions. For example conditions associated with a delegated permission may only allow a delegee to use a permission during business hours and or when located within a particular office building.

A user may select one of the potential delegees shown in interface to delegate the particular permission to the user. In practice delegating a permission to a user may include associating the particular permission with a credential associated with the delegated user. For example based on a user John Smith selecting the user Jane Doe to receive the permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

Briefly the system enables users to perform operations that are governed by a computer system. A user can have an account that is maintained on a server . Credential granting authorities with computing systems may create credentials and may associate one or more permissions with each credential. The credentials can be associated with users at the server enabling the users to exercise the permissions associated with those credentials to perform operations. A user may utilize a permission for example by outputting a validation mechanism related to the particular permission at a client device associated with the user where a processing system associated with a validation entity may then be able to use the validation mechanism to determine whether the request to perform the operation related to the permission is a valid request. Based on the processing system determining that the request to perform the operation is valid the system may enable the user to perform the requested operation.

Functionally the server stores and or manages one or more credentials associates users with appropriate credentials and provides credentials to users client devices and or processing systems for validation. In practice each credential may comprise one or more permissions associated with that credential. The server may be any suitable computer or collection of computers executing software capable of managing delegating and or validating representations of credentials for users and groups of users via a network as described herein.

Credentials permissions associated with the credentials user accounts and administrative accounts can be stored in a database e.g. MySQL PostgreSQL MS SQL Server MongoDB or other suitable data structure that can be accessed by a server . In some instances the server may access the stored credentials permissions associated with those credentials and or user accounts via web services such as representations state transfer REST style services.

In addition the system includes a number of computing systems operated by credential granting authorities. The computing systems may be external to the server and may be operated by entities that are different from the entity operating the server such as one or more entities that may provide credentials to users. Alternatively the computing systems may be operated by the same entity who operates the server for example a credential management service entity. For example the entities associated with the credentials shown in e.g. a motor vehicle administration MicroStrategy Incorporated a non profit foundation and XYZ Apartments each may operate one or more of the computing systems or a credential management service entity may operate all of the computing systems in place of the individual entities and in addition to operating the server . In some such implementations computing systems may be incorporated within server . The server may be accessible to the computing systems over the network .

The computing systems each may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers. The one or more computing devices may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features ascribed herein to the computing systems . Furthermore the one or more computing devices each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . In addition these computing devices also may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

In some implementations the server may receive and or create a credential and permissions associated with a credential. In some instances a credential may be received at the server from one or more of the computing systems . Additionally or alternatively the server may create a credential based on for example input received from client devices and or from a processing system . The credential may include a variety of information such as a credential identifier one or more permissions associated with the credential identifiers of the one or more permissions associated with the credential a description of an event or location and or one or more conditions such as a temporal and or a geographic condition associated with the credential and or permissions conferred by the credential. In some instances a credential identifier or an identifier of a permission associated with a credential may be represented as a number or an alphanumeric character string that uniquely identifies the particular credential or the particular permission associated with the credential.

The server may present a suitable interface for the creation of a credential or one or more permissions associated with a credential where applicable. For example the server may present a web interface through which a user creating a credential or permission can interact through a web browser. In some implementations the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application running on a device such as a client device or processing system . Any suitable interface can be used that enables the creation and storage of a credential one or more permissions associated with the credential and a user account.

In some instances a credential or permission may be created by a credential and or permission issuing organization e.g. MicroStrategy Incorporated or XYZ Apartments as shown in . The credential issuing organization may establish the credential at a system belonging to the credential issuing organization where the credential may use a format specified by the central hub or server that manages the credentials. The credential issuing organization may then provide the credential to the central hub or server that manages the credentials where the credential and permissions associated with the credential may be associated with a user.

Additionally or alternatively a credential or permission can be created at the request of an authorized user through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable mechanism such as sending email or short message server SMS transmissions for example to a credential and or permission grantor. In some implementations a registered user may be able to create a credential and or permission by use of an application running on a client device .

A credential and or one or more permissions associated with a credential may be associated with one or more conditions that govern whether a particular credential or permission is valid for example in a particular place or at a particular time. A credential granting authority or organization may apply the one or more conditions to a credential or a permission associated with the credential or the conditions may be selected by a user delegating a permission to another user. For example an interface may show a menu of potential conditions that can be placed on the usage of a delegated permission such as time and or location conditions and allow a credential permission grantor or authorized user to identify desired conditions.

In some implementations a credential granting authority credential permission grantor or authorized user may associate a credential or a permission associated with a credential with a temporal condition. A temporal condition may identify for example a time period or multiple time periods during which a credential and or permission is valid. The time periods may be identified using any suitable format including for example a specific date or range of dates and times e.g. from Jan. 1 2013 at 9 00 AM to Jan. 31 2013 at 5 00 PM an expiration date and time e.g. before 5 00 PM on Jan. 13 2013 or a recurring day e.g. every Monday through Friday between 9 00 AM and 5 00 PM. The time periods may be stored in any suitable format. For example a specific date or range of dates and times may include a pair of dates with associated times a starting date with an associated time plus a duration or a pair of times since epoch. An expiration date and time could be identified by a date and time or a time since epoch. A recurring day and time could be represented as days of the week e.g. using cron format with Sunday through Saturday represented by integers 0 through 6 and times e.g. in 12 hour format such as 9 00 AM to 5 00 PM or in 24 hour format such as 0900 to 1700. In some implementations the temporal condition could be stored as any suitable data object such as for example an eXtensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON object.

Additionally or alternatively a credential granting authority credential permission grantor or authorized user may associate a geographic condition with a credential or with a permission associated with a credential. A geographic condition can identify for example one or more locations such as commercial buildings geographic regions particular rooms in a building large venues private residences or any other physical space. The geographic location or locations may be stored as for example points identified by a latitude coordinate and a longitude coordinate e.g. 38.915530 77.220604 polygons whose boundaries are defined by a set of latitude and longitude coordinate pairs e.g. 38.910000 77.220000 38.810000 77.220000 38.810000 77.120000 38.910000 77.12000 street addresses e.g. 100 Main Street Washington DC etc. In some implementations the geographic locations may be associated with an indication of a predefined distance from a location e.g. 1000 yards that a client device can use to determine whether it has entered or left the location. In some instances the geographic condition can be stored as any suitable data object such as for example an XML or JSON object.

A credential or a permission associated with the credential may also be associated with combinations of geographic and temporal conditions. In particular a credential or permission may be valid during certain time periods at one location and at different time periods at a different location. For example a credential or permission may be valid every Monday through Friday from 9 00 AM to 5 00 PM within 30 miles of Tyson s Corner Va. and valid every Saturday and Sunday from 6 00 AM to 8 00 PM within 20 miles of Seattle Wash.

The system may also enable the management and creation of user accounts associated with users e.g. users . In some instances credential granting authorities may provide to the server information used to establish and or supplement user accounts that are associated with users . The credential granting authorities may provide the information used to establish and or supplement the user accounts to the server over the network by using computing systems . The server may also provide an interface so that credential granting authorities and or authorized users may create user accounts to associate with users . For example the server may present a web interface through which a credential granting authority and or authorized user can interact via a web browser. Additionally or alternatively the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application on a mobile device such as a client device . User accounts may be stored in a table or collection of tables in a database or in any other suitable data structure accessible by the server . The user accounts may include a variety of information such as user name or user identifier e.g. a number or alphanumeric character string that uniquely identifies a user and or the addresses of one or more client devices owned by or otherwise associated with the user. User accounts may be created through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable mechanism for example by sending email or SMS to a credential permission grantor. In some implementations potential users may be able to create user accounts for themselves by using an application running on a client device .

Once a credential one or more permissions associated with the credential and one or more users have been created a credential granting authority credential permission grantor and or authorized user may associate the credential or a permission associated with the credential with one or more user accounts. In some implementations a credential granting authority may specify one or more user accounts to associate with a particular credential or a particular permission for example by providing information to the server that indicates the credential or permission and one or more user profiles to which the credential or permission should be granted. In some implementations a user may be able to associate their user account with a credential or with one or more permissions associated with the credential by use of an application running on a client device . Furthermore the server may notify a user that they have been associated with a particular credential or permission for example by pushing a notification to the user s client device . Such a notification may include the credential or permission identifier and or a key for the user to access view or obtain the credential or permission.

Once a credential and one or more permissions associated with the credential have been associated with an appropriate user the credential and or permissions can then be distributed to a client device of the user through the network . The network may be a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet. In some implementations the server may communicate with the client device via SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS . The server may access a user account in a database to locate the appropriate user s client device and may distribute the credentials and or permissions to the client device based on identifying that the device is associated with the delegee of the credential or permission. Additionally or alternatively a user having a client device may request the credential and or permissions using the client device and the server can confirm that the user holds the particular credential and or permissions before distributing the credential and or permissions to the user.

A client device can receive a credential conferring one or more permissions or one or more delegated permissions associated with their respective user and store the credential in any suitable memory for later retrieval. A given user may be associated with multiple different credentials that confer different permissions with each credential and or permission potentially being subject to different geographic and or temporal conditions. Some or all of the credentials associated with a user may be accessible on a user s client device . In particular software applications executing on the client devices can retrieve credentials associated with a user so that representations of the credentials may be rendered on the user s client device e.g. as illustrated and described above in connection with . The client device may be any type of computing device including but not limited to a mobile phone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA music player e book reader tablet computer laptop or desktop computer or other stationary or portable device that includes one or more processors and non transitory computer readable storage media. The software application can be written in any suitable programming language such as for example Objective C C Java etc.

A first user e.g. user holding a credential that confers the first user a permission may delegate the permission conferred by that credential to one or more other users e.g. user to provide the one or more other users the ability to use the permission.

For example user John Smith may have a user account and a credential associated with that user account. In this example one or more delegatable permissions may be conferred by the credential such that the delegatable permissions can be delegated to other users. In addition as shown in one or more exclusive permissions also may be conferred by the credential such that the exclusive permissions cannot be delegated to other users.

According to the illustrated example the user John Smith may request to delegate a particular delegatable permission to a user Jane Doe. The user may select and delegate the permission for example using a web interface or using a graphical user interface or application on a mobile device such as client device that communicates with server through network . In some instances as described the user delegating the permission may apply one or more conditions to the use of the delegated permission. For example the user delegating the permission may specify that the user receiving the delegated permission may only use the delegated permission in certain locations and or at certain times. In response to receiving an instruction to delegate the permission to the user the server may associate the permission with the user Jane Doe and the server may additionally associate any specified conditions on the use of the permission by the user with the delegated permission.

In some implementations associating the particular delegatable permission with a user may involve adding the delegatable permission to a credential already owned by the delegee. For example in delegating the permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

In some implementations the server may notify the user to whom the permission has been delegated of the delegation of the permission for example by pushing a notification to the user s client device . Such a notification may include for example a permission identifier for the delegated permission one or more conditions associated with the permission an indication of the identity of the user who delegated the permission to the user e.g. an indication of the credential from which the permission was delegated and or an access key or code that is required for the user to obtain the delegated permission.

Additionally or alternatively a delegatable permission may be provided to a user by exchanging a code corresponding to the delegatable permission from a client device associated with the delegating user to a client device associated with the recipient of the delegated permission. In such an instance a user associated with a delegatable permission may select the permission for example from a menu as shown in . The client device associated with the user may then generate or obtain from the server a code related to delegating the particular permission to another user and output the code at the client device . The delegating user may provide the code related to delegating the particular permission to a client device associated with the delegee . For example the code may be a quick response QR code and the delegee may scan the code displayed on an interface of the client device associated with the delegating user . The client device may then communicate the code to the server where the server may identify the particular delegatable permission associated with the code and any restrictions associated with the delegee s usage of the delegated permission and may delegate the particular permission to the user for example by associating the delegated permission with a credential held by the user .

In another implementation the delegating user may select a permission to delegate to another user one or more conditions on the usage of the permission by the other user as well as the particular user with whom the permission should be delegated and information identifying the permission one or more conditions and the delegated user may be communicated to the server . The server may then associate the particular permission along with the one or more usage conditions with the delegee . However the delegation may not be consummated until the delegee obtains a code from the delegating user . For example to consummate the delegation of the particular permission the delegee may have to scan using their client device a validation mechanism or representation of the delegating user s credential that is output at the delegating user s client device . Based on the delegee scanning a representation of the credential of the delegating user or scanning another validation mechanism the server may then consummate the association of the delegated permission with the delegee enabling the delegee to use the delegated permission.

For example a user John Smith with an employee credential for a business MicroStrategy Incorporated may select a delegatable permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

According to the example a client device associated with user is executing an application that displays a user interface including a menu similar to the menu shown in . The menu may include one or more exclusive permissions associated with the credential of the delegating user as well as one or more delegatable permissions associated with the credential. As shown the delegating user has selected the delegatable permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

At a later point in time the recipient user Jane Doe who has been delegated the permission associated with approving purchase orders of less than 100 000 may access a user interface including a menu similar to that shown in indicating one or more delegated permissions. Specifically the user may access the menu shown in user interface at a point in time after the delegating user has selected a delegatable permission as shown in user interface selected a user as a recipient of the delegated permission and after the permission has been assigned to the delegated user s credential. The interface may be displayed in connection with the user accessing a specific credential at their client device such as for example by accessing an employee badge credential for MicroStrategy Incorporated at the client device and accessing a menu that displays any permissions that have been delegated to that employee badge credential.

In some implementations a first user associated with a credential that confers a delegatable permission may be able to delegate the permission to a second user in the form of a certified instruction to the second user. In such implementations after the first user selects the permission to be delegated the first user s client device may generate a document that includes a message indicating that the first user has delegated the permission to the second user . The document also may include a representation of the credential of the first user with which the delegated permission is associated and or a representation of the permission that the first user has delegated to the second user . Such representations of the first user s credential and or the delegated permission may have been generated by or may be communicated to server .

The document may be an electronic document and or the document may be a physical hardcopy document generated for example by sending an electronic version of the document to a printing device. If a representation of the credential of the first user with which the delegated permission is associated is included in the document the representation of the credential may be encoded or otherwise represented by a computer readable code such as for example a quick response QR code a barcode an alphanumeric code or some other computer readable representation of the first user s credential. Similarly if a representation of the delegated permission is included in the document the representation of the permission may be encoded in or otherwise represented by a computer readable code such as for example a quick response QR code a barcode an alphanumeric code or some other computer readable representation of the permission.

The first user may provide the document to the second user for example in electronic and or physical form. Thereafter when the second user attempts to exercise the delegated permission the second user may present the document in connection with the attempt to exercise the delegated permission. Continuing with the example above where the delegated permission is the permission to approve purchase orders less than 100 000 when the second user desires to approve a purchase order less than 100 000 the second user may present the document to the business accounting division as evidence that the first user has delegated the permission to approve purchase orders less than 100 000 to the second user .

If the document includes a representation of the first user s credential the accounting division then may use a computing device to read the representation of the first user s credential included in the document and to transmit the representation of the first user s credential to server . Server then may use the representation of the credential to identify the first user s credential and any permissions associated with the first user s credential. If the first user s credential includes the delegatable permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

Additionally or alternatively if the document includes a representation of the delegated permission the accounting division may use a computing device to read the representation of the delegated permission included in the document and to transmit the representation of the delegated permission to server . Server then may use the representation of the delegated permission to confirm that the permission has been delegated. If server determines that the permission has been delegated server may inform the accounting division that the second user is authorized to approve purchase orders less than 100 000.

In some implementations the document also may include a computer readable code or other reference to the identity of the second user e.g. the second user s employee credential identifying the second user as the user to whom the permission has been delegated. In such implementations the computer readable code or other reference to the identity of the second user may be input from the document by a computing device and transmitted to server for the purposes of verifying that the second user is in fact the user to whom the first user delegated the permission. In such implementations the second user also may present the second user s credential on the second user s client device for validation for example for the purposes of authenticating the identity of the second user .

In some instances a permission or credential may only be usable by a user holding the permission or credential when conditions associated with the particular permission or credential are satisfied. For example a user Jane Doe may request to utilize the permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

In some instances if one or more conditions associated with using a permission or credential are not satisfied the system may not display the credential of the user thereby making the user unable to utilize the particular credential or a permission associated with that credential. Additionally or alternatively if one or more conditions associated with a credential or permission are not satisfied at the time a user attempts to use the particular credential or permission the system may prevent the user s client device from outputting a validation mechanism related to using the particular credential or permission. For example a client device associated with a user who has been delegated a particular permission may not output a quick response QR code or other validation mechanism related to demonstrating that the user has been delegated the permission if one or more conditions for the usage of the delegated permission are not met. Additionally or alternatively an interface shown at the client device associated with the delegee may not include the particular permission if one or more conditions on the usage of the particular permission are not satisfied. Additionally or alternatively when one or more conditions associated with the use of a particular permission are not satisfied a user who has been delegated a particular permission may still output a validation mechanism for the delegated permission however when another party attempts to validate the validation mechanism the system may indicate that the user s use of the permission is currently invalid. For example a user Jane Doe having been delegated a permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

In some implementations conditions associated with delegated permissions are enforced locally at client devices . In such implementations when a user attempts to exercise the delegated permission an application running on the user s client device may identify temporal and or geographic conditions associated with the delegated permission and determine whether the conditions are satisfied based on the current time and or the current location of the client device before allowing the delegee to exercise the permission.

In order to determine if a temporal condition associated with a delegated permission is satisfied a client device associated with a user may obtain a current time derived from a timing device of the client device . The time can be for example a current timestamp e.g. seconds or milliseconds from epoch obtained from a timing device such as a hardware or software clock located at the client device . Alternatively or in addition when the client device has network connectivity an application may poll another network device e.g. a network time server to determine the current time instead of relying on the time indicated by the client device . Relying on the network device may reduce a user s ability to manipulate the time on a client device to circumvent temporal conditions associated with a delegated permission.

The client device can then compare the current time with any temporal conditions associated with the delegated permission. For example a temporal condition associated with a delegated permission may specify that the permission is only valid for use before a particular date and time e.g. Jan. 1 2013 at 12 00 AM. If the current date and time at the client device associated with the recipient user is then identified as Jan. 2 2013 at 5 00 PM the client device may determine that the temporal condition associated with the delegated permission is not satisfied. For instance an alert may be presented at a user interface of a client device notifying the delegated user that the permission is not valid due to the temporal condition of the delegated permission not being satisfied.

In order to determine if a geographic condition associated with a delegated permission is satisfied a client device may use GPS coordinates or other geographic location methods for example Wi Fi access point triangulation data cellular network triangulation data or IP address information when the client device has network connectivity.

The client device can then compare the current geographic location of the device with any geographic conditions associated with the delegated permission. For example a delegated permission associated with a location condition may require that the client device associated with the delegee be within 30 miles of Tyson s Corner Va. in order for the permission to be exercised. If the client device is greater than 30 miles from Tyson s Corner Va. when the user attempts to exercise the permission the client device may determine that the geographic condition is not satisfied and display a message such as an alert indicating that the geographic condition is not satisfied.

In some implementations the logic for enforcing conditions associated with delegated permissions may reside on the server and an application executing on a client device associated with a user may request permission from the server prior to enabling the user to exercise the permission at the client device . In such implementations a client device may first determine whether it currently has network connectivity as a prerequisite to enabling the delegated permission to be exercised by the user .

For example if a delegated permission has an associated temporal condition the server may access a current time from a timing device accessible to the server e.g. a local clock associated with a client device or a network time server when it receives a request from a client device to enable a user to exercise the permission associated with the temporal condition. The server may then approve or deny the request based on determining that the temporal condition is satisfied or is not satisfied respectively. In some implementations the server may confirm that a time from a client device associated with the delegee is consistent with the current time obtained at the server to identify any potential manipulations by the delegee associated with the delegated permission.

If a delegated permission has an associated geographic condition the server may receive location information from a client device as part of the request to validate usage of the permission and determine whether the geographic condition is satisfied. Alternatively or in addition the server may require that the client device associated with the delegee be connected to a particular network e.g. a specific Wi Fi network or cellular base station that is associated with a geographic location at which the delegated permission is valid. In some implementations a processing system used to validate a user s request to use a permission may send its location information to the server as part of the request in addition to or instead of the location information obtained from the client device and the server may determine whether the geographic condition is satisfied based on the location information received from the processing system .

In some instances a geographic condition may require a client device associated with a user who has been delegated a permission to be within a threshold distance of a client device associated with a user who has delegated the permission. In such instances the system may obtain location information from the client device associated with the delegee as well as location information from the client device associated with the delegator and determine whether the geographic condition is satisfied based on the distance between the two client devices . For example a geographic condition may require that a client device associated with a delegee be located within 100 yards of a client device associated with a delegator for the use of a delegated permission to be valid. Using location information obtained from both client devices the server may approve or deny the request to exercise the delegated permission based on determining that the obtained location information satisfies or does not satisfy the geographic condition respectively. If the particular geographic condition is satisfied the system may enable the delegee to utilize the permission for example by enabling the delegee to output a validation mechanism for the particular permission at a client device associated with the delegee or by enabling the delegee to otherwise perform operations related to the permission. If the particular geographic condition is not satisfied the system may prohibit the use of the permission by the delegee for example by preventing the output of a validation mechanism for the particular permission at the client device associated with the delegee or by otherwise prohibiting the delegee from performing operations relevant to the permission. In some implementations a validation mechanism for a permission may be output at a user interface of a client device enabling the user associated with the client device to exercise the permission. The validation mechanism for the permission may take a variety of different forms. For example among other mechanisms the validation mechanism may be an alphanumeric code an encoded signal an optical machine readable representation e.g. a barcode or a quick response QR code a parametrically generated graphical representation an animated graphic representation and or a phrase. In some applications these mechanisms may also be used to encode data describing a user credential information contained in reference to a user credential or other data related to the use of permissions associated with a user.

As referred to herein an alphanumeric code may be a sequence of numbers and or letters e.g. 4 to 24 characters that is associated with a permission. In some instances a given numeric representation will only be valid for a certain time period. In operation applications for generating and providing validation mechanisms operate on client devices and the processing system . The server associates an alphanumeric code with a permission and distributes the alphanumeric codes to the user s client device . The client device also may be able to derive the alphanumeric code based on information previously provided by the server e.g. parameters to apply to an equation that generates codes based on the parameters and time of day . When a user presents an alphanumeric code to the validation entity the processing system can validate the alphanumeric code by communicating with the server and receiving a response indicating whether the presented alphanumeric code matches a valid alphanumeric code at the time it is presented e.g. a valid alphanumeric code corresponding to exercising a particular permission. In response to being validated by the processing system the system may display a message indicating successful validation and enable the user to perform operations related to the particular validated permission.

As referred to herein an optical machine readable representation of a credential may be an arrangement of graphical elements that encode alphanumeric data where the elements are arranged so that the data can be read by an optical scanner. For example an optical machine readable representation may be a bar code a quick response QR code or an Aztec code among other optical machine readable representations.

A client device may use any suitable technique for encoding alphanumeric data into an optical machine readable validation mechanism. For example a client device may call a function or library routine that encodes a quick response QR code in accordance with the quick response QR code International Organization for Standardization ISR standard ISO IEC 18004 2006 RSS Information technology Automatic identification and data capture techniques QR Code 2005 bar code symbology specification. Similarly the server may generate an alphanumeric code and encode the alphanumeric code into an optical machine readable representation and may provide the code and or the optical machine readable representation to the client device .

When a client device outputs an optical machine readable validation mechanism a validation entity can operate a processing system to validate the optical machine readable representation as shown in the interface in which an optical machine readable representation is scanned by the processing system and decoded to determine whether the presented validation mechanism enables a user to exercise a particular permission.

The processing system may use any suitable mechanism to scan and decode the optical machine readable representation. For example the processing system may access a function or library routine that captures and decodes quick response QR codes and or barcodes using a camera operatively coupled to the processing system . The processing system can then validate the optical machine readable representation by communicating data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the representation to the server where the server may verify that the particular alphanumeric character string corresponds to a validation code for using the particular permission. The processing system receives a response indicating whether the presented optical machine readable representation corresponds to a permission that is currently associated with a user at the point in time the processing system communicates the alphanumeric code to the server .

As described herein an encoded signal representation of a credential may be any computer readable signal modified to encode data. In some instances the signal may be a sound signal a Bluetooth signal a near field communication NFC signal or any other transitory signal that encodes data. For applications in which the encoded signal is a sound signal the signal may comprise sound signals in which an oscillation of pressure waves transmitted through the air are modulated to encode information. Any suitable modulation scheme can be used such as for example frequency shift keying FSK or phase shift keying PSK . In some implementations the sound signal may be in the ultrasonic frequency range e.g. greater than about 20 kHz. In some implementations the sound signal may be in the audible frequency range e.g. about 20 Hz to about 20 kHz.

The signal may encode data used to verify usage of a permission may encode information related to a user credential or may encode any other suitable data. In addition the signal may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers for example conditions associated with permissions. In instances in which the encoded signal is a sound signal the client device may use any suitable technique for encoding the sound signal. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes data into sound signals such as the Zoosh SDK by Naratte Inc. A client device can then output the sound signal from a speaker coupled to the client device for reception by the processing system .

When a client device outputs a sound signal the validation entity can operate the processing system to receive the sound signal at a speaker of the processing system and decode the sound signal to generate a set of alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the sound signal. The processing system may use any suitable mechanism to receive and decode the sound signal. The processing system can then validate the alphanumeric characters by communicating with the server where the server may determine whether the alphanumeric characters match an alphanumeric code related to the particular permission. In response the processing system may receive a response indicating that the alphanumeric characters encoded in the sound signal correspond to a valid permission delegated to a credential associated with the user or to a valid permission at the point in time the sound signal was processed by the system .

In some implementations a user may request to exercise a particular permission and may provide using a client device associated with the user a graphical representation of a validation mechanism for the permission for visual inspection by another user. As referred to herein a parametrically generated graphical representation of a validation mechanism may be a visual display that is generated using one or more parameters as inputs to one or more mathematical equations such as a three dimensional rendering of an object or an image of a fractal. In certain implementations the parameters can be generated from seed values such as e.g. a credential or permission identifier and a time. In operation a client device can obtain an identifier e.g. from a memory of the client device used to store the identifier when previously provided to the client device by the server and a time e.g. from a timing device of the client device and generate a parametrically generated graphical representation for the validation mechanism using the identifier and time as seed values. In other implementations the client device may receive the graphical representation from a server where the graphical representation may then be stored by the client device for later use. Similarly for validation the processing system may obtain an identifier and a time and may generate and or receive from a server a parametrically generated graphical validation mechanism for the permission in the same manner. When the timing device at the processing system is synchronized with the timing devices at client device the parameters output at the processing system should be identical or nearly identical to those of the client device when the identifiers are the same. The graphical representation generated by processing system should therefore match the graphical representations on the client device allowing the validation entity to visually validate the credential or permission presented on the client device . A user of the processing system and the client device may determine the proper validation mechanism to output to enable usage of the permission for example by selecting the particular permission from among a menu of permissions. For example a user who has been delegated a permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

In some examples animated graphical representations may be used as validation mechanisms. In these examples a client device may display an animated graphical representation generated using a specific process and a user may present the displayed graphical representation to another user for validation by visual inspection e.g. visual comparison to an animated graphical representation generated using the specific process and displayed on a device of the other user . As referred to herein an animated graphical representation of a validation mechanism may be for example a hypertext markup language HTML animation animated graphical interchange format GIF file Motion Pictures Expert Group MPEG file Adobe Flash animation or any combination thereof. An animation may be for example a sequence of images defined by one of these files. Applications executing on the client device may access the stored graphical representations by way of index values where an index value may correspond to a single representation. In operation a client device obtains a credential identifier e.g. from a memory of the client device used to store the identifier when previously provided to the client device by the server and a time e.g. from a timing device of the client device and selects an animated graphical representation for the credential or permission by using the identifier and the time to generate an index value. In some implementations the client device may obtain the animated graphical representation of the validation mechanism from a server and may store the graphical representation for later output. Similarly for validation the processing system obtains an identifier and a time and selects an animated graphical representation for the credential or permission in the same manner as the client devices . When the timing device at the processing system is synchronized with the timing device at client device the index values generated at the processing system should be substantially identical to those of the client device when the identifiers are the same. The graphical representation selected by processing system should therefore match or nearly match the graphical representations on the client devices allowing the validation entity to visually validate the permission presented on the client device . A user of the processing system and the client device may determine the proper animated graphical representation to output to enable usage of the permission for example by selecting the particular permission from among a menu of permissions. For example a user who has been delegated a permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

As referred to herein a phrase representation of a validation mechanism for a permission may be a sequence of two or more words selected from one or more dictionaries of words that need not form a grammatical construct. A dictionary as used herein is a data structure in which index values identify words. A given dictionary may include many thousands of different words. In operation applications executing on the client device and the processing system can access a common set of dictionaries for generating phrases and may access a common index value so that when the applications reference the same index values in the same dictionaries at substantially the same time they can select the same phrases. In some implementations the server may provide the processing system and the client device with the same index value for selecting phrases for example based on users of the processing system and the client device requesting to output a phrase validation mechanism for a particular permission at substantially the same time. Thus the processing system displays the same phrase as the client device which enables the validation entity to validate the phrases at the client device .

When the server receives a validation request message from the processing system it attempts to confirm that the presented validation mechanism is valid. In particular the server may decode a set of alphanumeric characters and or parse an alphanumeric code to obtain an identifier of the permission or user credentials associated with the permission. The server can then access the corresponding credential or permission using the identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the identifier. Upon retrieving the credential or permission the server can determine whether the presented representation was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message with data associated with the retrieved credential or permission. For example the server may determine that a code included in the validation request corresponds to an authorized code for the permission or a user of the permission e.g. a delegated user of a permission. In some implementations the processing system may perform some or all of the validation for the permission.

In some implementations if the representation is validated the validation response may include an image a name and or other data relating to the validated user including e.g. a copy of the user s credential or the permission associated with that credential. The server may obtain information relating to the user e.g. an image of the user from the credential grantor. For example the processing system may display the user s name and the user s image. In some implementations responsive to receiving a validation response from the server the processing system may obtain the user s image from for example a memory of the processing system the server a server made accessible by the credential grantor a computing system associated with a credential granting authority or another server. The processing system may then output the user s image to a display operatively coupled to the processing system . Additionally or alternatively the system may output a response that includes mention of the identified permission that has been verified for example an indication that the requesting user is permitted to use the permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

While illustrated in as a person the validation entity can be any agent capable of validating representations of credentials or permissions presented by users. As an example the validation entity could be a software application executing on the processing system that processes a representation received from a client device decodes the representation to generate an alphanumeric set of characters transmits the alphanumeric set of characters to the server and receives a response from the server indicating that the representation is valid. According to the example shown in the software application could then enable a user to perform a financial transaction. The processing system can also be any suitable computer or set of computers capable of communicating with the server via network such as a mobile phone a smart phone PDA tablet computer laptop or desktop computer or other stationary or portable device that includes one or more processors and non transitory computer readable media.

In some implementations codes presented by a user for validation by the processing system may be codes that represent validation mechanisms for particular permissions or codes that represent particular credentials that confer one or more permissions . For example a user may present a code that identifies a particular permission where the processing system may process the code to determine whether the user may exercise the particular permission. Alternatively the user may provide a representation of a credential associated with the user that has requested to use a permission associated with that credential. For example the credential may be a credential associated with the user that has a plurality of associated permissions such as an employee badge or may be a credential that has been created for a single delegated permission such as a unique credential associated with the user that only is associated with the delegated permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

Based on the processing system determining that a request to perform an operation relating to a particular permission is valid the system may respond in a number of fashions to enable the user to perform the operation. In some implementations if the processing system determines that a validation mechanism provided by a user identifies a valid credential the system may output a list of possible permissions that the user may use. Additionally or alternatively successful validation by the processing system may result in the requested operation being performed automatically by the system. For example if the particular permission relates to accessing a computer system successful validation of the permission may result in the user automatically being granted access to the computer system e.g. automatically being logged into the computer system . Similarly if the particular permission relates to entering a physical space protected by a locked door successful validation of the permission may result in the locked door being opened or unlocked automatically.

In some instances a validation mechanism for a permission or a representation of a credential may be used as a method of electronically signing a document. The electronic signature may then be validated by a processing system to verify that the user that included the electronic signature is permitted to perform operations relating to the document where the system may then enable the particular operations to occur. For example a user having a permission To Approve Purchase Orders 

The server receives an indication that the first user has chosen to delegate a particular permission from amongst the one or more permissions to a second user . For example the first user John Smith may select a particular delegatable permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

In response to receiving the indication the server associates the particular permission with the specified second user . For example the server based on receiving the indication may associate the delegatable permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

In some instances associating the permission with the second user may involve verifying that the selected permission is a delegatable permission that can be delegated by the first user to the second user. Additionally or alternatively associating the permission with the second user may involve verifying that the identified second user can receive the particular permission e.g. that there are no restrictions on the particular permission limiting the permission from being delegated to the second user. In some implementations the server such as a server may also identify one or more conditions placed on exercising the permission by the delegee such as for example any temporal or geographic conditions as described above. Based on verifying that the permission is a delegatable permission and that the identified second user is an authorized delegee of the permission the system may associate the delegated permission to the second user along with any conditions applied to the delegating of the permission.

The server enables the second user to exercise the delegated permission . For example a server may enable the second user Jane Doe to utilize the delegated permission to perform actions associated with approving purchase orders of less than 100 000. In some instances enabling the second user to exercise the delegated permission may involve associating the delegated permission with an existing credential of the second user. For example the server may provide the client device associated with the second user a new representation of the credential e.g. a new badge that identifies the delegated permission as a permission conferred by the credential or the server may adjust the current credential to further include the delegated permission. In some instances the server may notify the second user that a permission has been delegated to the second user and that the second user s credential has been adjusted to include the delegated permission. The notification may further include a representation of the delegated permission or a representation of their credential that includes the permission. In some instances the notification may also indicate one or more conditions associated with use of the delegated permission when such conditions have been applied to the delegated permission by the first user. The notification may be for example a push notification sent to a client device associated with a second user or any other notification.

Initially server receives indications of one or more permissions associated with a user credential . The messages may be generated and sent from a computing system associated with a credential granting authority. As described the server may store these credentials associated with user accounts and may further store information identifying the one or more permissions associated with one or more of the credentials.

The client device associated with a first user transmits a message to the server . In some instances the message may be sent based on the first user indicating at a client device a request to delegate a particular permission associated with that user s credential to a second user. The server receives the message.

Additionally the same first user may indicate at the client device a second user to whom to delegate the selected permission and the client device may transmit a message to the server identifying the second user as the user selected to receive the delegated permission . The server receives the message indicating the second user.

In response to receiving the message indicating the permission to be delegated and the message identifying the second user as the user selected to receive the delegated permission the server determines if the request sent by the first user is valid. In some implementations determining that the request sent by the first user is valid may involve evaluating conditions associated with the delegation of the permission where the conditions may be provided by the credential granting authority associated with the permission. For example the server may evaluate whether the permission is a delegatable permission. Additionally or alternatively the server may determine if there are one or more other conditions associated with the authority of the first user to delegate the permission to a second user. For instance conditions associated with the permission may specify that the particular delegatable credential is only delegatable during certain times or when the first user is located within certain locations or based on any number of other conditions. Additionally the server may determine if the second user is a valid recipient of the delegated permission for example by evaluating conditions associated with the permission. For instance conditions associated with the permission may specify that the particular delegatable permission is only delegatable to users who possess one or more specified credentials and or to whom one or more other permissions have been conferred e.g. co requisites or prerequisites associated with the permission. Additionally or alternatively conditions associated with the permission may specify that the permission can only be delegated to users within the same company or may specify that the permission can only be delegated to users holding certain titles or positions within the company. Upon determining that the messages identify a valid permission and a valid second user to whom the identified permission can be delegated the server verifies and associates the delegated permission with the second user . The delegation may be performed for example by associating the permission with a credential assigned to the second user or by another method.

Following the delegation of the identified permission to the second user the server sends a message from the server to the computing system associated with the credential granting authority notifying the credential granting authority that the particular permission has been delegated to the second user . For example the message may indicate that the permission has been delegated to the user account associated with the second user that the user account associated with the first user has delegated the permission to the second user and or that one or more conditions on exercising the delegated permission have been associated with the delegated permission. In response to receiving the message the computing system of the credential granting authority may update data stored in association with the user account of the first user and or the user account of the second user to reflect the information conveyed in the message.

The server also sends a message from the server to the client device associated with the second user indicating that the permission has been delegated to the second user . For example a representation of the delegated permission may be transmitted to the client device associated with the recipient of the permission that allows the second user to exercise the delegated permission. In some instances the representation may be a code associated with the permission e.g. an alphanumeric code a quick response QR code a barcode or an encoded signal such as an ultrasonic or other sound signal code. Additionally or alternatively the server may provide the client device with a modified or new version of a credential already held by the second user that indicates that the credential now confers the authority to exercise the delegated permission on the second employee.

As shown the server receives an indication from a first user requesting to delegate a particular permission to a second user . For example the system may receive at a server from a first user using a client device an indication identifying a particular delegatable permission as well as an indication of a second user to receive the delegated permission. The identified permission may be a delegatable permission that is associated with a credential held by the first user. For example a first user John Smith with a user account associated with a credential that includes a permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

The server also receives an indication identifying one or more restrictions to be applied to use of the delegated permission by the recipient . For example the server may receive an indication from a client device associated with the first user identifying one or more restrictions to apply to the use of the delegated permission by the second user. In some instances such restrictions may be one or more temporal and or geographic conditions that must be satisfied for the second user to be able to execute the delegated permission.

The server accesses one or more conditions limiting the delegation of the selected permission by the first user . In some instances conditions may specify that a first user with a credential that confers a particular delegatable permission can only delegate the permission to a second user during certain times or when the client device of the first user in certain geographic locations as described. For example conditions may specify that a first user John Smith may only delegate a permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

The server evaluates the conditions governing the delegation of the particular permission by the first user to the second user . In some instances the system obtains information relevant to evaluating the conditions associated with delegating the particular permission. For example the system may obtain information relevant to the location of a client device associated with the first user the system may obtain information relating to a current time day or date and or the system may obtain any other information relevant to evaluating the one or more conditions. Once the system has obtained the relevant information the system may evaluate the conditions associated with the delegation of the particular permission by the first user. In some instances the server determines if the location of a client device associated with the first user satisfies a geographic condition for example if the client device is located within 30 miles of Tyson s Corner Va. Additionally or alternatively the server determines if the current time satisfies one or more time conditions for example if the current time is within 9 00 AM and 5 00 PM and if the day is one of a Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday or Friday. In some examples other conditions may be associated with the delegation of the particular permission by the first user and may be evaluated using other relevant information.

The system determines that the delegation of the particular permission by the first user to the second user is a valid delegation . Upon evaluating the conditions the system may determine that all of the conditions are satisfied and thus that the particular permission should be delegated to the second user. In some instances the system may determine both that the location of the client device associated with the first user satisfies a geographic condition for example that the client device is located only 10 miles from Tyson s Corner Va. and that the time of the request also satisfies a time condition for example that the time is 12 00 PM on a Wednesday. Based on determining that the conditions associated with the first user delegating the particular permission to the second user are satisfied the system may transmit a signal indicating that the particular permission may be delegated to the second user.

The system delegates the particular permission to the second user . In some implementations the system delegates the permission to the second user by associating the permission with a credential belonging to the second user as described. In addition the system may identify the one or more restrictions indicated by the first user pertaining to the usage of the delegated permission by the second user and may associate these conditions with the delegated permission. For example the system may determine that the first user has indicated that the delegated permission should only be available to the second user for up to 48 hours from the time the permission is delegated. Consequently the system may associate that restriction with the permission delegated to the second user.

As discussed delegating the permission to the second user may involve modifying a credential associated with the second user s user account to include the delegated permission. After delegation the delegated permission may usable by the second user so long as the identified conditions are satisfied. The system may additionally transmit one or more signals indicating that the permission has been delegated to the second user such as notifications output at a client device associated with the second user signals sent to a credential management authority indicating that the permission has been delegated and or other signals or notifications.

The data structure includes a first column for a user identifier. In some implementations the user identifier may be represented as an identification number and the value shown in the first column may identify the user. The data structure includes a second column for a credential identifier that uniquely identifies the credentials of a user. In some examples the credential identifier may be represented as an identification number and the values shown in the second column may represent the credential type. A third column indicates user permissions associated with the credentials According to the example provided above the individual user may be user John Smith holding a position of Chief Financial Officer at MicroStrategy Incorporated. As seen subsequently in each credential and set of user permissions associated with each credential may have a second data structure associated with that credential that indicates specific permissions associated with the credential as well as one or more conditions on the usage of the permission by the user.

The example data structure indicates a first record that defines a first credential record associated with a user. The first record indicates that the first credential is a driver s license credential. The first credential has associated user permissions that are in this case grouped as a Class C Non Commercial permission. According to the example the Class C Non Commercial permission may include any number of related permissions such as permissions to drive any two axle vehicle to drive at any time of the day to drive with a particular number of persons in the same vehicle etc. In practice each of these permissions may be listed in the relevant row of column of data structure or may be defined by a group of permissions as shown here where the permission Class C Non Commercial may represent multiple related permissions. Record of data structure defines a credential identifier for a MicroStrategy Badge such as that held by user John Smith. The credential may be associated with a user permission Chief Financial Officer which may be a permission with related permissions such as permission to Approve Purchase Orders 100 000 and permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

Record of data structure may define a credential associated with a non profit foundation such as non profit foundation shown in . The credential relating to the non profit foundation may include permissions coincident with a Board of Trustees member of the non profit foundation in a similar manner as the MicroStrategy Badge may have permissions coincident with a Chief Financial Officer position as shown in record of data structure . Record of data structure may define a credential for an apartment resident such as the apartment key credential presented with respect to . The record may identify that the particular credential is for XYZ Apartments and that the credential has permissions associated with an individual user being a resident or tenant. For example the user permissions associated with the record may include permissions to unlock doors to an apartment building permissions to access different amenities associated with an apartment building etc. where some of the permissions may be permissions that can be delegated to other users. For example a resident of XYZ Apartments may delegate a permission to access a particular unit in which they live to a maintenance crew or friend to enable the maintenance crew to access an apartment for repairs or to enable the friend to access the unit 

Data structure includes a first column for a user and or credential identifier. Data structure further includes a second column for a user permission identifier. Data structure includes a third column identifying whether the permission has been delegated to the user by another user or the permission is a permission conferred on the user by virtue of possession of a particular credential. The data structure also includes a fourth column indicating location conditions placed on exercising the permission and a fifth column indicating time conditions associated with exercising the permission. Column of data structure indicates whether the permission is a delegatable permission that can be delegated by the user to another user and column indicates where applicable if the permission has been delegated by the user to another user and to whom. For any permission that has been delegated by the user to another user data structure identifies at column any geographic conditions imposed upon exercising the delegated permission and at column any temporal conditions imposed upon exercising the delegated permission.

The data structure further includes one or more records that indicate specific permissions associated with the credential. As shown in for example the data structure includes a first record for a permission to Approve Purchases 100 000 a second record for a permission to Approve Purchases 

As indicated in column example data structure relates to a credential for a MicroStrategy Badge held by a user such as user John Smith. The data structure indicates a first permission record that defines a permission to Approve Purchases 100 000. The example data structure indicates that the permission was not a delegated permission and that the permission may only be used within 30 miles of Tyson s Corner Va. between 9 00 AM and 5 00 PM on days Monday through Friday. The permission record also indicates that the permission is not a delegatable permission. Consequently the entries identifying users to receive the delegated permission as well as any location or time conditions associated with delegating the permission are not applicable.

Record of data structure provides a permission to Sign Contracts that has been delegated to the user by another user. For example a user such as user John Smith holding a position of Chief Financial Officer may have been delegated the permission to Sign Contracts by another user such as a user holding a position of Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer. The permission is associated with a location condition that allows the permission to be exercised only within 30 miles of Tyson s Corner Va. and the permission may only be available to the user from the time the user is delegated the permission until Jan. 1 2013 at 5 00 PM. Additionally according to record the permission is a delegatable permission that has been delegated to a user holding the position of Chief Operating Officer named Joe Boggs. The delegated permission to Sign Contracts has been assigned a location condition that enables the delegee to only exercise the permission when located within 30 miles of Tyson s Corner and the permission has been assigned a time condition that only enables the delegee to use the permission before Jan. 1 2014 at 5 00 PM.

The system verifies that the particular permission has been delegated to the second user . In some instances the system may access a credential associated with the user account corresponding to the second user and may determine that the credential is associated with the delegated permission. For example the server may determine if a credential associated with the second user is associated with a permission to approve purchase orders of less than 100 000 in response to receiving the request from the client device associated with the second user to exercise the permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

The system determines whether the delegated permission has been revoked for example by the first user who initially delegated the permission to the second user by a credential granting authority or by any other source . For example in some instances a system may revoke a user s authority to exercise a delegated permission if the user attempts to exercise the permission a certain number of times when the conditions associated with exercising the condition are not met. Similarly the system may revoke a user s authority to exercise a delegated permission if the user enters a validation mechanism for the permission above a threshold number of times. The system determines whether the permission delegated to a second user Jane Doe to Approve Purchase Orders 

The system verifies that the second user s request to exercise the delegated permission satisfies any temporal conditions applied to exercising the delegated permission. In some instances the system may determine a current time day and or date and may determine whether the current time day and or date satisfies any temporal conditions associated with exercising the delegated permission. For example a permission to Approve Purchase Orders 

The system verifies that the second user s request to exercise the delegated permission satisfies any geographic conditions applied to exercising the delegated permission . In some instances the system may determine a current location of a client device associated with the second user and may determine whether the current location of the client device satisfies the one or more geographic conditions. For example a permission delegated to a second user Jane Doe to Approve Purchase Orders 

The system determines if the request to exercise a delegated permission satisfies one or more authority restrictions associated with the delegated permission . In some instances authority restrictions may require that a user hold a certain position within a company to be able to use a delegated permission may require other co requisite or prerequisite permissions to utilize a particular permission or may have other authority restrictions. The system may access information associated with the second user to determine if the one or more authority conditions are satisfied such as information in a user profile associated with the second user or information associated with a credential held by the second user. For example a permission delegated to a second user Jane Doe to Approve Purchase Orders 

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. A computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

