---

title: Devices, systems and methods for enabling network connectivity
abstract: Techniques, including systems, devices and methods, for enabling network connectivity are described. In particular, systems, devices and methods for flexibly configuring network connections for reliability and/or extensibility are described. Such techniques include improving reliability of network connections by adaptively utilizing multiple network and electrical power configurations. The disclosed techniques also include enabling user-definable network functionality through a variety of methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521243&OS=09521243&RS=09521243
owner: Ushahidi, Inc.
number: 09521243
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase Application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2014 028923 filed Mar. 14 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 798 533 filed Mar. 15 2013 the entire content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

Networks and network connectivity are playing an ever increasing role in the global economy. Networks such as the Internet and the efficiency and or reliability of the associated connections are crucial to the advancement of modern science technology and industry. A significant and growing component of technological scientific and industrial advancement occurs in developing and newly industrialized countries where such networks are sporadic underprovisioned unreliable or otherwise suboptimal. In many of such countries other utilities such as electrical utilities are similarly suboptimal. The combined infrastructural inefficiency in such areas conspires to make consistent and reliable network connectivity challenging which directly and indirectly affects the rate of technological scientific and industrial innovation and productivity reliant thereon.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Techniques described suggested and implied herein include systems methods and devices for interfacing with enabling and or generating one or more computer networks. Networks as used herein refer to one or more data connections between two or more devices whether physical or virtual. Examples of such networks include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs virtual private networks VPNs the global communications network known as the Internet and so on. Such networks may have any combination of physical and virtual components and may be wired wireless or some combination thereof.

The techniques described include for example a device for optimizing network connectivity with little or no intervention from a user thereof. For example such a device may serve as a gateway and or network router e.g. an interstitial device for directing and managing traffic between one or more connected user devices and one or more external networks such as the Internet. The device includes in some embodiments various provisions for storing and or caching data from to the external network s and or user devices. The device may also include a plurality of external network interfaces and in some of such embodiments may be capable of switching between such external network interfaces upon detection that network connectivity to a subset of the external network interfaces has been lost or otherwise compromised. In some embodiments the device may be capable of detecting an interruption of supply power and switch to a more viable supply as well as make one or more changes to the network configuration to minimize effects to network connectivity.

Other examples include methods and systems for setup and configuration of network connectivity devices. For example a network connectivity device may include logic that infers based on a limited subset of inputs or responses to inquiries about the network and or operating environment in which the device operates sufficiently detailed information to configure the network connectivity device to provide some or all pertinent functionality such as status reporting external network connectivity internal network connectivity data security data sharing and dissemination and the like. As another example a network connectivity device may be configured using a user interface UI served from or external to the device and or using one or more application programming interfaces APIs web services or the like. In some embodiments the network connectivity device may support one or more software programs or applications apps to for example run in connection with or in some embodiments directly upon the device in order to flexibly enable additional functionality such as integration with data storage systems other software applications and the like .

An example network connectivity device may include for example functionality for automatically configuring the device to connect with mobile networks e.g. cellular data networks . One example of such functionality includes determining upon the insertion of a subscriber identity module SIM into the device for enabling connections to one or more mobile networks one or more APNs to effect and configure such connections. In this example if the requisite APN s are not available locally to the device the device may query an external data store e.g. a database through an existing network connection with information relevant to the inserted SIM. If the database contains the appropriate APN s such APN s are relayed back to the device whereupon the device may be configured to use the SIM and thereon connect to the relevant mobile network s . If the database does not contain the appropriate APN s a user of the device may be queried for additional information or in some embodiments instructed on how to manually enter the APN s . Upon manual entry if such manually entered APNs successfully enable the device to connect to the relevant mobile network s the manually entered APN s are stored in the database for future use by any similarly configurable network connectivity device connected therewith.

In the illustrated example the embedded computing system connects to peripheral devices through a USB hub though other types of data busses and distribution devices are contemplated herewith. The illustrated example connects via the USB hub external USB ports for user added devices such as external hard disk drives and flash memory drives one or more battery controllers a wireless modem for example an HSPA data modem as illustrated though any type of wireless modem is contemplated and a microcontroller or system on a chip SoC . The external ports may enable a large variety of user provided devices to extend the functionality of the overall network connectivity device such as data storage additional network interfaces for redundancy security devices e.g. authorization dongles etc. The illustrated battery controller exemplarily includes functionality for monitoring and or charging a battery connected therewith as well as the ability to report status of the controller and or the battery. The connected battery may be of any suitable type and or chemistry including lithium polymer LiPo lithium ion lithium iron phosphate LiFePO4 nickel metal hydride NiMH sealed lead acid nickel cadmium NiCd and so forth. The exemplary microcontroller connects via USB HID in another appropriate manner to the embedded computing system so as to enable externally facing feedback regarding the status of the network connectivity device. For example the microcontroller may report the status of any connected battery back to the embedded computing system as well as provide an interface for connected displays lights and so forth. Such connections may as illustrated be via I2C or by any appropriate signaling or communication mechanism e.g. RS 232 SPDIF DVI and so forth . In the example shown the embedded computing system may use the microcontroller to display current status of the network connectivity device as a whole via one or more light emitting diodes LEDs . The example illustrated includes a wireless modem connected via USB to the embedded computing system. The wireless modem may such as illustrated be High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA compatible or may be compatible with any other mobile telephony protocol or data technology and in some embodiments may support multiple protocols . The exemplary illustration also includes provision for data storage e.g. flash memory .

The network connectivity device via its component functionalities may be capable of creating and interfacing a plurality of networks. In some embodiments the network connectivity device interchangeably uses the external networks e.g. as illustrated as connected through the wireless modem to a mobile broadband network and as connected through one or more Ethernet ports of the embedded computing system to an external wired network to provide redundancy as between them. Thus in embodiments where user devices utilize the network connectivity device to provide access to the external network s in the instance that one or more of the connected external network s fail or fall below a predetermined bandwidth or latency threshold the network connectivity device may be configured or configurable to automatically fail over to another still viable connection. In some embodiments the network connectivity device may constantly or periodically poll and or test the external network connections to determine which among them is optimal and or disconnected and automatically select the best available one.

The network connectivity device may in some embodiments provide a fail over or redundancy functionality with respect to electrical power. As exemplarily illustrated the network connectivity device includes a battery and an external power connection e.g. through USB . In scenarios where externally provided power is lost or becomes suboptimal in quality e.g. brownouts or voltage spikes the device may seamlessly switch to being powered by the internal battery until such time as the externally provided power resumes or operates within predetermined and or nominal parameters. In some of such embodiments the device may additionally determine that based on the nature of the externally provided power that one or more external networks may have or will soon lose at least some functionality and preemptively or reactively switch to another external network or interface that has or is likely to have better connectivity.

As previously noted the embedded computing system may also provide administrative functions for the device and in some embodiments may externally expose such functionality through for example a built in web server providing a UI API s or both. illustrate an example UI for initial setup of a network connectivity device as well as for ongoing administration and configuration. As illustrated an exemplary network connectivity device may in some embodiments be configurable using a mobile device or any other entity capable of connecting with the network connectivity device e.g. internally over a LAN via an Intranet or via the Intranet . It is contemplated that in some embodiments the level of control and thus the number of configuration options exposed may differ according to the connecting device the credentials of an authenticating user and or the method of connection e.g. someone connecting from within a network created by the network connectivity device may be afforded more control over the device s configuration than one connecting over the Internet . Configuration of the network connectivity device may in some embodiments be through a service of a distributed computing system whereupon at a time after the configuration has been made or updated an associated network connectivity device may receive the new or updated configuration asynchronously from the distributed computing system. Such a solution may be advantageous in that a plurality of network connectivity devices may be configured and or administered from a central point and without regard to the exact connectivity between the configuring agent and the network connectivity device to be configured.

An exemplary API for a network connectivity device may include any externally queriable addressable and or modifiable aspect of the device. For example an API for a network connectivity device as previously described may include commands to retrieve log and or relay the location of the network connectivity device direct communications via the network connectivity device e.g. messages such as SMS and MMS through the mobile network connected thereto storing retrieving and or relaying e.g. to an external device of data retrieving and or adjusting various operational parameters of a connected network e.g. enabling 3G communications via WCDMA LTE forcing 2G communications via GPRS EDGE and or assessing signal strength in some or all communications frequency bands retrieving and or logging power conditions e.g. battery status external power status and logging storage thereof direct manipulation of hardware microcontroller embedded processor pinouts e.g. GPIO I2C external power sources RS232 interfaces and the like.

The various techniques described herein may be partially or fully implemented using code that is storable upon storage media and computer readable media and executable by one or more processors of a computer system. Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.

