---

title: Secondary open mobile alliance device management platform
abstract: A device management (DM) server. The server comprises a memory, a processor, and an application programming interface (API), wherein the secondary DM server makes available a subset of the functionality of a DM server and when accessed through a portal, initiates a DM session with a short message service (SMS) system type message, notifies the mobile communication devices associated with a trusted third party of secondary DM server via the short message service system type message, and makes available firmware to be downloaded from a sandbox of the secondary DM server and tested by a limited number of the mobile communication devices associated with the third party, wherein the sandbox is an area in a memory to isolate untested firmware or firmware under test from the environment outside the sandbox.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264842&OS=09264842&RS=09264842
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09264842
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140203
---
Mobile phones are electronic devices that are used for mobile voice and or data communications based on wireless network connectivity which can be provided by base stations known as cell towers or sites. Such electronic devices may be associated with a mobile network operator directly or through a mobile virtual network operator MVNO . The mobile virtual network operator is the wireless communication services provider that does not own the wireless network infrastructure or the radio spectrum over which the mobile virtual network operator provides services to the customers. A mobile virtual network operator may have its own customer relationship management marketing customer service or billing support systems. Mobile phones associated with the mobile virtual network operator may be activated configured or updated by the mobile network operator.

In an embodiment a secondary device management DM server is disclosed. The DM server comprises a memory a processor and an application programming interface API wherein the secondary DM server makes available a subset of the functionality of a DM server and when accessed through a portal initiates a DM session with a short message service SMS system type message notifies the mobile communication devices associated with a trusted third party of secondary DM server via the short message service system type message makes available firmware to be downloaded from a sandbox of the secondary DM server and tested by a limited number of the mobile communication devices associated with the third party wherein the sandbox is an area in a memory to isolate untested firmware or firmware under test from the environment outside the sandbox deletes problematic firmware from the sandbox and requests to move tested firmware that meets predefined criteria to a production area of the DM server whereby the third party has restricted access to the firmware activation or updating process.

In an embodiment a method of managing mobile communication devices through a third party portal is disclosed. The method comprises initiating a device management DM session between a secondary DM server and a client application on a mobile communication device with a short message service system type message from a secondary DM server wherein the secondary DM server makes available a subset of the functionality of a primary DM server notifying the mobile communication devices associated with the third party of the secondary DM server via the short message service system type message and making available firmware to be downloaded from a sandbox of the secondary DM server and tested by a limited number of the mobile communication devices associated with the third party wherein the sandbox is an area in a memory to isolate untested firmware or firmware under test from the environment outside the sandbox. The method further comprises auditing the testing process by the primary DM server based on predefined criteria deleting problematic firmware from the sandbox and when the firmware meets the criteria requesting the primary DM server to move the tested firmware to a production area where the firmware stored in the production area is available to more mobile communication devices whereby the third party has restricted access to the firmware activation or updating process.

In an embodiment a method of managing mobile communication devices through a third party portal is disclosed. The method comprises initiating a device management DM session with a short message service system type message downloading firmware to a limited number of mobile communication devices from a sandbox of a secondary DM server and testing it on the mobile communication devices wherein the sandbox is an area in a memory to isolate untested firmware or firmware under test from the environment outside the sandbox and wherein the secondary DM server makes available a subset of the functionality of a DM server and when the firmware meets predefined criteria requesting a primary DM server to move the tested firmware to a production area where the firmware stored in the production area is available to more mobile communication devices.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Existing device management platforms for wireless communication service systems are proprietary and grant access to the mobile network operator but do not grant access to a third party reseller. The third party reseller may also be referred to in some contexts as a mobile virtual network operator MVNO . The third party reseller and mobile virtual network operator may be two interchangeable terms. The mobile network operator is a wireless communication services provider that owns the radio spectrum and or wireless network infrastructure over which the mobile network operator provides services to its customers. On the other hand the mobile virtual network operator is the wireless communication services provider that does not own the wireless network infrastructure or the radio spectrum over which the mobile virtual network operator provides services to the customers. When third party resellers desire their own device management servers problems with a single client and multiple servers may be introduced for example contention. Also the corresponding mobile virtual network operator may prefer to reserve the signed certificates instead of distributing them to the third party reseller. Signed certificates may grant one the access to confidential information on the whole communication network in addition to the device management server. Aspects of a secure interoperable and controlled device management platform may be advantageous for the mobile network operator to provide to the third party reseller.

Disclosed herein is a system and method for device management through a third party portal for firmware activation and updating. In an embodiment an open mobile alliance OMA device management DM server may be accessed through an application programming interface API by a third party reseller. The OMA DM server may initiate an OMA DM communication session with an OMA DM client application on a mobile communication device via a short message service SMS system type message comprising the OMA DM server name. An SMS system type message may not be presented or notified to a user of a mobile communication device but may be directed to or forwarded to an application on the mobile communication device for example to an OMA DM client application. In some contexts an SMS system type message may be referred to as a silent SMS message. The OMA DM server may store firmware in a sandbox for a limited number of mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller for downloading. The mobile communication devices that downloaded the firmware may test the firmware based on predefined criteria. The testing process and activities may be monitored and recorded in a sandbox testing activity log. When the tested firmware falls below predefined criteria the OMA DM server may remove the firmware from the sandbox. When the tested firmware meets the predefined criteria the qualified firmware may be moved to a production area of the OMA DM server. When the firmware is stored in the production area the firmware may be available to more mobile communication devices for downloading. While an open mobile alliance device management platform is used throughout as an example and preferred embodiment it is understood that the teachings of the disclosure may be applied to other device management protocols.

This allows a third party reseller to have their own device management servers and have restricted access to firmware activation or updating process. At the same time by assigning a secondary device management server to the third party reseller and keeping primary device management servers to the mobile network operator this protects the mobile network operator from having to grant the third party reseller access to confidential information on the whole communication network wherein the secondary device management server makes available a subset of the functionality of the primary device management server.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a secondary open mobile alliance OMA device management DM server a plurality of mobile communication devices and a plurality of primary OMA DM servers . The secondary OMA DM server may comprise a processer an application programming interface API and a memory . The memory may comprise a production area and a sandbox . The mobile communication device may comprise a client application . The mobile communication device is configured to use a radio transceiver to establish a wireless communication link with a base transceiver station BTS and the base transceiver station provides communications connectivity of mobile communication device to a network . One or more primary OMA DM servers may also have access to the network . The network may comprise any combination of private and public networks.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices any number of primary OMA DM servers and any number of base transceiver stations . The collectivity of base transceiver stations may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these base transceiver stations may provide a radio communication link to the mobile communication devices to provide access to the network . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the base transceiver stations servers and data stores such as home location registers HLRs or servers that implement the functionality of home location registers visitor location registers VLRs or servers that implement the functionality of visitor location registers base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile communication devices .

The radio transceiver may communicate with the base transceiver station using any of a variety of wireless communication protocols including a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a world wide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another wireless communication protocol. The mobile communication device may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer or another mobile communication device. In an embodiment the mobile communication device may have other components not shown such as a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a wireless local area network WLAN radio transceiver or other components.

In an embodiment the division of the secondary OMA DM server and the primary OMA DM server may be from a logical perspective and the secondary OMA DM server and the primary OMA DM server may locate in different combinations of physical computers. For example an OMA DM server may be an instance of the OMA DM software application and one physical computer may run multiple OMA DM software application instances. It should be noted that the communication between the primary OMA DM server and the secondary OMA DM server may not involve a network as the network illustrated in . The secondary OMA DM server and the primary OMA DM server may be located in one computer for example a server computer in two different computers for example a server computer for the secondary OMA DM server and another computer for the primary OMA DM server in multiple different computers for example a server computer for the secondary OMA DM server and other multiple computers for the primary OMA DM servers or in some other combination of computers. When the secondary OMA DM server and the primary OMA DM server may be located in one and the same physical computer the secondary OMA DM server may share the same processor and memory as the primary OMA DM server . The secondary OMA DM server may be implemented in the way of distributed computing. In addition the OMA DM servers or may be regionally distributed. For example content may be stored at geographically distributed OMA DM servers or so that mobile communication devices at different geographical locations may download from the closest OMA DM server.

The application programming interface may be built as a portal to access the secondary OMA DM server . For example the application programming interface may provide controlled access to the secondary OMA DM server by a third party reseller for example a mobile virtual network operator. The application programming interface may be built as a graphical user interface GUI . In currently existing systems a third party reseller may have little access to device management servers for example OMA DM servers and to activate or update firmware on associated mobile communication devices . With the application programming interface a third party reseller may have restricted access to the secondary OMA DM server to conduct at least one of activation provisioning configuration firmware upgrades firmware updates preferred roaming list PRL update or over the air programming OTA .

It should be noted that a separate application programming interface or other interfaces may be utilized by the mobile network operator that are different from the application programming interface . For example an application programming interface different from the application programming interface may be utilized by the mobile network operator to transmit updates to mobile communication devices associated directly with the mobile network operator. As another example an application programming interface different from the application programming interface may be utilized by the mobile network operator to transmit updates to mobile communication devices associated directly with the mobile network operator and another application programming interface also different from the application programming interface may be utilized by the mobile network operator to transmit updates to the mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller.

In an embodiment the application programming interface may be part of a web service. A web service is a software application that supports communication between electronic devices across a network. The web service may enable OMA DM platforms to bypass the restrictions of an individual OMA DM platform. The third party reseller may access the secondary OMA DM server through the web service instead of accessing the secondary OMA DM server or primary OMA DM server directly. In this way the privileges of the third party reseller with the secondary OMA DM server may be controlled. The web services is exposed through the application programming interface and the third party reseller may integrate the web services into their customer relationship management CRM application. The application programming interface may prevent some functionality of the primary OMA DM server from the secondary OMA DM server . In an embodiment the application programming interface may provide the third party reseller with a subset of the functionality of the primary OMA DM server . The functionality assigned to a certain secondary OMA DM server may be based on the trust level of the secondary OMA DM server and may vary from one secondary OMA DM server to another secondary OMA DM server. For example a secondary OMA DM server may be able to assign up to 100 mobile communication devices to download firmware from the sandbox at a time but another secondary OMA DM server may be able to assign up to 50 mobile communication devices to download firmware from the sandbox at a time. The subset of functionality assigned by the primary OMA DM server to the secondary OMA DM server may not be fixed at all times and may be changed under predefined circumstances. For example selected communication bands may be turned on for the mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller under predefined circumstances.

A workflow engine may be utilized to manage privileges of the application programming interface . A workflow engine is a software application that manages computer processes. The workflow engine may interpret events and act on the interpreted events. The workflow engine may check whether the current command is valid in executing a task whether the current user is permitted to execute the task or execute the task or flag an error. In an embodiment the workflow engine may check whether the current command is valid in executing the current task whether the third party reseller is permitted to execute requested commands execute the requested task or flag an error.

In an embodiment the client application may be an OMA DM client application on a mobile communication device and may communicate with an OMA DM server or after identification authentication or validation. The communication between the client application and the OMA DM server or may be initiated by either the client application or the OMA DM server or with a short message service SMS message. For example when the client application sends a request to the primary OMA DM server an OMA DM session is initiated. The client application may support access to multiple OMA DM servers or . For example the client application may communicate to both the primary OMA DM server and the secondary OMA DM server .

Once the communication is initiated and a communication session is established between the client application and the OMA DM server or a sequence of messages may be exchanged to accomplish a device management task. Besides conducting the communication between the client application and the OMA DM server or the client application may execute commands from the OMA DM server or . For example if a binary installation file for a program is transmitted to the mobile communication device the client application may install the binary program. In addition the client application may return the result of executing the command to the OMA DM server or via a reply short message service message.

Currently mobile communication devices report to a core or central OMA DM server. In an embodiment the client application may be configured to be communicatively coupled to multiple OMA DM servers. For example the client application may be communicatively coupled to both the secondary OMA DM server and the primary OMA DM server . In current systems returning data back from the mobile communication device for example data about the activities of the mobile communication device is not supported. In an embodiment returning data back from the mobile communication device may be supported with a secondary OMA DM server with a specific third party reseller.

The OMA DM is a device management protocol that is designed to manage small mobile communication devices for example a mobile phone or a personal digital assistant. The OMA DM is intended to support provisioning configuration of device software upgrades firmware updates fault management or another device management feature. An OMA DM server or may communicate with a mobile communication device with a sequence of messages after identification validation. The OMA DM server or may send the server name to the mobile communication device when initiating an OMA DM session so that the mobile communication device may reply to the OMA DM server or that initiated the OMA DM session. When the secondary OMA DM server is part of an OMA DM task and the primary OMA DM server initiated the session upon the receipt of the reply message from the mobile communication device the primary OMA DM server may direct the mobile communication device to the secondary OMA DM server directly or to the primary OMA DM server first for some action and then to the secondary OMA DM server . In an embodiment a primary OMA DM server may be a server that has more privileges than a secondary OMA DM server . In other words a secondary OMA DM server may make available a subset of the functionality of a primary OMA DM server . The primary OMA DM server may be said to be in a trusted environment itself and a sub trusted environment may be created to accommodate the secondary OMA DM server .

In an embodiment the primary OMA DM servers have two levels of privileges testing and proposal level and secondary level. In an embodiment the primary OMA DM server may audit or monitor the process of firmware testing by the mobile communication devices associated with the secondary OMA DM server with predefined criteria. In an embodiment the criteria may be one or more of successful completion of a mandatory suite of test doses completion of a required testing completion and review by the mobile network operator and completion with no high severity faults. It should be noted that other device management objects for example provisioning configuration of device or software upgrades may also be managed in the same way as firmware. For example provisioning configuration of device or software upgrades may be stored in the sandbox for downloading and testing. For example the primary OMA DM server may keep a log of the testing activities of the firmware from the sandbox . When the tested firmware meets the criteria and the secondary OMA DM server requests to move the firmware from the sandbox to the production area the primary OMA DM server may move the qualified firmware to the production area . Alternatively depending on the trust level of the third party reseller or the secondary OMA DM server the primary OMA DM server may grant the permission for the secondary OMA DM server to move the qualified firmware to the production area . The limit for the number of requests from a third party reseller to move firmware from the sandbox to the production area in a predetermined time period may vary depending on the traffic from the primary OMA DM server the secondary OMA DM server and how the traffic is directed between the primary and secondary OMA DM servers and . The stored firmware in the production area may be available to more mobile communication devices than when the firmware was in the sandbox .

In current systems a third party reseller requests to a primary OMA DM server to move the device record to a sandbox before the third party reseller is enabled by the primary OMA DM server to move an activated mobile communication device to a testing group. In current systems a device record is data of a mobile communication device that when moved to the sandbox enables the third party reseller to have visibility of the mobile communication device . When the device record is in the sandbox the mobile communication device is said to be in the testing group. And not until the mobile communication device is moved into the testing group does the third party reseller have some visibility of the mobile communication device .

In an embodiment the third party reseller may move some mobile communication devices to the group that has the accessibility to the sandbox without requesting to the primary OMA DM server . With the application programming interface and the secondary OMA DM server the visibility may be tied to both the third party reseller identification ID and the sandbox . The number of the mobile communication devices that may be placed in the group that may access the sandbox to download and test a piece of firmware may be limited for example to 10 50 100 or another amount. In an embodiment a field of mobile communication devices may be assigned at initiation for testing firmware from the sandbox . For example a field of a parameter for configuration may be flagged on a limited number of mobile communication devices at initiation. Mobile communication devices other than the devices assigned to test firmware from the sandbox may not be moved by the secondary OMA DM server to the group that may access the sandbox . Identification information such as mobile equipment identifiers MEIDs may be passed through the web service to the secondary OMA DM server to identify the mobile communication devices that are intended to access the sandbox .

In an embodiment the sandbox may be an isolated environment to temporarily store firmware before the firmware is ready for a large number of mobile communication devices to download. For example the sandbox may store firmware to be tested and firmware under testing. It should be noted that other device management objects for example provisioning configuration of device or software upgrades may also be managed in the same way as firmware. For example provisioning configuration of device or software upgrades may be stored in the sandbox. The sandbox may be accessible to the secondary OMA DM server through the application programming interface . In an embodiment the secondary OMA DM server may store firmware in the sandbox and a limited number of mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller may download the firmware from the sandbox . Alternatively a field of mobile communication devices may be assigned to the sandbox at initiation. The mobile communication devices may be differentiated from other mobile communication devices by identification information such as a mobile equipment identifier. The primary OMA DM server may audit the process of the firmware testing based on predefined criteria. When the tested firmware is problematic the third party reseller may remove it from the production area without requesting to the primary OMA DM server .

When the tested firmware meets the criteria the firmware may be moved to the production area upon the request of the third party reseller. In an embodiment the firmware stored in the production area may be available to more mobile communication devices . For example the firmware in the production area may be available for all mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller to download.

In an embodiment the secondary OMA DM server enables the third party reseller to manage the mobile communication devices with restricted privileges. For example the third party reseller may activate and or update firmware on the mobile communication devices with the secondary OMA DM server through the application programming interface . The third party reseller may realize provisioning on the mobile communication devices and or over the air programming with the secondary OMA DM server . In addition the third party reseller may transmit preferred roaming lists to the mobile communication devices through the secondary OMA DM server .

The secondary OMA DM server may initiate an OMA DM communication session with the client application via a short message service system type message. A short message service system type message or a silent short message service message is a hidden short message service message that is not presented to the end user when arriving at an electronic device. The short message service system type message is hidden from the short message service messaging application and is processed by the electronic device without user interruption or user interaction. In an embodiment the secondary OMA DM server may comprise the address of the secondary OMA DM server so that the mobile communication device may reply to the secondary OMA DM server that initiated the OMA DM session.

In an embodiment the secondary OMA DM server may store firmware in the sandbox for a limited number of mobile communication devices to download. The mobile communication devices may test the downloaded firmware. The primary OMA DM server may monitor the testing process and decide whether the tested firmware meets predefined criteria. Alternatively the secondary OMA DM server may decide whether the tested firmware meets predefined criteria from the primary OMA DM server . The secondary OMA DM server may send a message to the primary OMA DM server about the status of the tested firmware. For example when the tested firmware meets the criteria the secondary OMA DM server may send a message to notify the primary OMA DM server of the qualification of the firmware. On the contrary when the firmware falls below the criteria in testing the secondary OMA DM server may remove the firmware from the sandbox .

When the tested firmware is determined to have met the criteria and may be moved to the production area the firmware may be moved to the production area and will be available for the associated mobile communication devices to download. A limited number of mobile communication devices may be enabled to download the firmware in a period of time for example every one hour every five hours every 24 hours or another time interval to be allowed to download the stored firmware in the production area . For example 100 mobile communication devices may be allowed to download the qualified firmware in the production area every two hours 1000 mobile communication devices every four hours 2000 mobile communication devices every five hours or another number of devices in another time period.

The secondary OMA DM server may only communicate with the mobile communication device with selected wireless technology. For example the secondary OMA DM server may communicate with the mobile communication device only via a wireless local area network connection when the size of the payload to download is big. The secondary OMA DM server may communicate with the mobile communication device only via either long term evolution or wireless local area network connection when the firmware or other update materials to download is not critical. Additionally when the firmware or other update materials to download is of the highest priority any available communication link may be utilized to communicate between the secondary OMA DM server and the mobile communication device . The mobile communication device may generate a reply message with its network status to send to the secondary OMA DM server . The secondary OMA DM server may decide whether to send the payload the firmware or other update materials to be downloaded to the mobile communication device based on the available network at the mobile communication device and the priority of the payload. For example when a piece of firmware or other update materials are determined to be transmitted only with wireless local area network but wireless local area network is not available at the mobile communication device the secondary OMA DM server may delay the transmission until when the wireless local area network is available at the mobile communication device . Alternatively the secondary OMA DM server may send a lighter payload instead of the whole payload. As another example if the mobile communication device is roaming the secondary OMA DM server may choose not to transmit the payload at the time due to the high cost of roaming data.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a device management DM session is initiated between a secondary DM server and a client application on a mobile communication device with a short message service system type message from a secondary DM server wherein the secondary DM server makes available a subset of the functionality of a primary DM server. For example a short message service system type message may be sent from the secondary OMA DM server to the OMA DM client application on the mobile communication device to initiate an OMA DM session. In an embodiment the secondary OMA DM server may make possible a subset of the functionality of the primary OMA DM server .

At block the mobile communication devices associated with the third party are notified of the secondary DM server via the short message service system type message. For example the short message service system type message from the secondary OMA DM server may comprise the name of the secondary OMA DM server . With the information of the secondary OMA DM server the mobile communication device may reply to the exact OMA DM server that initiated the OMA DM communication session. At block firmware is made available to be downloaded from a sandbox of the secondary DM server and tested by a limited number of the mobile communication devices associated with the third party wherein the sandbox is an area in a memory to isolate untested firmware or firmware under test from the environment outside the sandbox. For example a limited number of mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller may download the firmware from the sandbox on the secondary OMA DM server and test the downloaded firmware on the mobile communication devices . The third party may collect testing results from the mobile communication devices in a variety of ways. For example the mobile communication devices that are assigned to test the firmware may be configured to send messages back to the secondary OMA DM server comprising testing results of the firmware. As another example staff from the third party reseller may test the firmware on the mobile communication devices in a test center of the third party reseller. The third party reseller may make changes to the tested firmware according to predefined rules by the primary OMA DM server and store the updated firmware in the sandbox after making those changes.

At block the testing process is audited by the primary DM server based on predefined criteria. The primary OMA DM server may audit the process of the firmware testing based on predefined criteria. In addition the primary OMA DM server may keep a log for the testing activities of the firmware in the sandbox . For example the primary OMA DM server may know whether the changed version of a piece of firmware has been replaced based on the log for the activities of the sandbox . At block problematic firmware is deleted from the sandbox . For example when the secondary OMA DM server finds problems with the firmware the firmware may be removed from the sandbox . The firmware removed from the sandbox may be modified and tested again later after stored in the sandbox again.

At block when the firmware meets the criteria request the primary DM server to move the tested firmware to a production area where the firmware stored in the production area is available to more mobile communication devices . For example the third party reseller or the secondary OMA DM server may request the primary OMA DM server to move qualified firmware to the production area once the firmware meets criteria from the primary OMA DM server . When the qualified firmware is stored in the production area the firmware may be available to more mobile communication devices for downloading. At block the third party has restricted access to the firmware activation or updating process. For example the third party reseller has controlled access to activate or update the firmware on the mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a device management DM session is initiated with a short message service system type message. For example the secondary OMA DM server may send a short message service system type message to a mobile communication device associated with the third party reseller to initiate an OMA DM communication session. At block firmware is downloaded to a limited number of mobile communication devices from a sandbox of a secondary DM server and tested on the mobile communication devices wherein the sandbox is an area in a memory to isolate untested firmware or firmware under test from the environment outside the sandbox and wherein the secondary DM server makes available a subset of the functionality of a DM server. For example firmware may be stored in the sandbox within the secondary OMA DM server for a limited number of the mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller to download and test.

At block when the firmware meets predefined criteria request a primary DM server to move the tested firmware to a production area where the firmware stored in the production area is available to more mobile communication devices . For example when the tested firmware meets predefined criteria of the primary OMA DM server the secondary OMA DM server may request the primary OMA DM server to move the qualified firmware to the production area . When the qualified firmware is moved to the production area the firmware is available to more mobile communication devices associated with the third party for downloading. For example the firmware stored in the production area may be available to all mobile communication devices associated with the third party reseller.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

