---

title: Graphene quantum dots and method of making
abstract: A method for forming a graphene quantum dot product includes adding an organic starting material to a vessel and heating the organic starting material to a temperature within 20° C. of the organic starting material's boiling temperature for a time no longer than ten minutes to form graphene quantum dots. A method for sensing a graphene quantum dot includes forming a graphene quantum dot, exciting the graphene quantum dot with light having a first wavelength, measuring light emitted by the excited graphene quantum dot at a second wavelength different from the first wavelength. A graphene quantum dot includes carbon atoms and nitrogen atoms where the nitrogen atoms are present within the graphene quantum dot at a level between 6.0% and 11.0% of a level of carbon atoms present in the graphene quantum dot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09637443&OS=09637443&RS=09637443
owner: University of North Dakota
number: 09637443
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140425
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 61 815 866 filed on Apr. 25 2013 and entitled GRAPHENE QUANTUM DOTS DERIVED FROM GLUTAMIC ACID which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CHE0947043 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Graphene quantum dots GQDs are single atom thick sheets of graphene that generally have no dimension greater than 100 nanometers nm . GQDs can be used in a wide variety of applications ranging from electronics optoelectronics and electromagnetics. The electrical magnetic optical and chemical properties of GQDs are governed by their size and edge crystallography. Compared to graphene GQDs exhibit stronger photoluminescence useful in bioimaging biosensing and light emitting diodes.

A number of methods have been developed to synthesize GQDs. These methods generally fall into two groups top down and bottom up methods. In top down methods larger carbon materials such as carbon nanotubes graphene sheets and carbon fibers are cut to form the smaller GQDs. In bottom up methods GQDs are fabricated from smaller carbon precursors. Glucose hexa peri hexabenzocoronene and citric acid have been used to form GQDs using bottom up methods. However bottom up methods in current use require harsh time consuming and or complicated conditions which include the use of strong acids and alkali long treatment times and separation processes.

A method for forming a graphene quantum dot includes adding an organic starting material to a vessel and heating the organic starting material to a temperature within 20 C. of the organic starting material s boiling point for a time no longer than ten minutes to form graphene quantum dots. The organic starting material is a hydrophilic compound that has at least two functional groups selected from carboxyl groups and hydroxyl groups.

A method for sensing a graphene quantum dot includes heating an organic starting material to a temperature within 20 C. of the organic starting material s boiling point for a time no longer than ten minutes to form a graphene quantum dot exciting the graphene quantum dot with light having a first wavelength and measuring light emitted by the excited graphene quantum dot at a second wavelength different from the first wavelength. The organic starting material is a hydrophilic compound that has at least two functional groups selected from carboxyl groups and hydroxyl groups.

A graphene quantum dot includes carbon atoms and nitrogen atoms where the nitrogen atoms are present within the graphene quantum dot at a level between 6.0 and 11.0 of a level of carbon atoms present in the graphene quantum dot.

A method for forming a graphene quantum dot includes adding an organic starting material to a vessel and heating the organic starting material for a time no longer than ten minutes to pyrolyze the organic starting material and from graphene quantum dots. The organic starting material is a hydrophilic compound that has at least two functional groups selected from carboxyl groups and hydroxyl groups.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure graphene quantum dots GQDs are prepared according to a bottom up method by pyrolyzing an organic starting material to form GQDs. Key factors in determining the GQD precursors organic starting materials and formation method was the desire to use non toxic and natural precursors and common reaction materials. The methods for making GQDs described herein do not require the use of hazardous reagents and chemicals like some other methods. In one particular embodiment glutamic acid is used to form Glu GQDs. Glutamic acid contains amine groups that can be easily modified and do not require further capping.

GQDs are formed by adding an organic starting material to a vessel and heating the organic starting material to a temperature that is within 20 C. of the organic starting material s boiling temperature. The heating takes place for a time no longer than ten minutes. During this heating step the organic starting material is pyrolyzed forming GQDs.

One example of a suitable organic starting material is glutamic acid. Methods for forming GQDs Glu GQDs will be described with particular reference to glutamic acid. Glutamic acid is an amino acid having the molecular formula CHNOand the following structure 

To form Glu GQDs glutamic acid is added to a vessel and heated to a temperature within 20 C. of its boiling temperature to pyrolyze the glutamic acid. illustrates a schematic diagram of the formation of Glu GQDs through pyrolysis of glutamic acid. Glutamic acid has a boiling temperature of about 205 C. Thus the glutamic acid is heated to a temperature between about 185 C. and about 225 C. according to the present disclosure. In some embodiments the glutamic acid is heated to 210 C. just above the boiling temperature of glutamic acid . The glutamic acid can be heated in an open vessel or a closed vessel.

The glutamic acid need only be heated to a temperature within 20 C. of its boiling point for a short period of time. Glutamic acid is exposed to the described temperature for less than ten minutes. Depending on the temperature selected the time spent at that temperature may vary. In some embodiments the glutamic acid is held at an elevated temperature for less than five minutes. In still other embodiments the glutamic acid is held at an elevated temperature for less than 60 seconds. Higher temperatures generally require shorter periods of time. Thus glutamic acid can be held at a temperature of about 185 C. for about ten minutes in one embodiment or held at a temperature of about 210 C. for about 45 seconds in another. In one particular embodiment the glutamic acid is heated to 210 C. and is maintained at that temperature for about 45 seconds or less. In some embodiments the glutamic acid is heated until it changes color. Glutamic acid is a solid at room temperature and has a melting temperature of 199 C. Unpyrolyzed glutamic acid once melted is generally a clear and colorless liquid. When heated above 200 C. for a short period of time generally less than about 60 seconds the glutamic acid becomes a pale yellow to brown liquid indicating carbonization of glutamic acid as the result of pyrolysis. If the glutamic acid is heated to an elevated temperature for too long the glutamic acid will turn black and Glu GQDs will not be obtained.

After the glutamic acid has been heated for an appropriate length of time a solvent can be added to the vessel containing the Glu GQDs and the subsequently formed colloidal solution can be stirred. Adding a solvent helps to disperse the Glu GQDs produced when the glutamic acid was heated. This helps to prevent the agglomeration and aggregation of Glu GQDs within the heating vessel. In some embodiments the solution is stirred for between about 15 minutes and about 60 minutes. In one particular embodiment the solution is stirred for about about 30 minutes. In some embodiments the solvent used is water alcohols such as ethanol or a combination of water and an alcohol. Unlike other methods for forming GQDs surface passivation agents or inorganic additives are not needed to produce Glu GQDs according to the present disclosure.

After stirring the colloidal solution is centrifuged. In some embodiments the solution is centrifuged with a relative centrifugal force of about 10 000 g for between about 15 minutes and about 60 minutes. Following centrifugation the supernatant is collected. The supernatant contains a concentrated Glu GQD product i.e. the supernatant has a higher concentration of Glu GQDs than the overall colloidal solution . The Glu GQDs present in the concentrated Glu GQD product generally have an average diameter between 1 nanometer nm and 7 nm. In some embodiments the Glu GQDs contain between 55 and 65 carbon atoms between 30 and 40 oxygen atoms and between 3.5 and 7.5 nitrogen atoms. Unlike some other bottom up formed GQDs Glu GQDs according to the present disclosure contain nitrogen atoms from the glutamic acid amine group . In some embodiments Glu GQDs contain nitrogen atoms at a level between 6.0 and 11.0 of the level of carbon atoms present in the Glu GQDs. Amine groups present in Glu GQDs can provide active groups for surface modification of the Glu GQDs.

The particular composition of Glu GQDs formed according to the present disclosure allows their use in imaging and sensing applications and demonstrate improvements over GQDs produced by other bottom up methods. For example the fluorescence quantum yield of Glu GQDs produced from glutamic acid is about five times higher than the yield of GQDs produced from citric acid. Glu GQDs produced according to the present disclosure can be used for in vitro and in vivo fluorescence imaging. Glu GQDs produced according to the present disclosure have also shown peroxidase like catalytic activity and can be used to detect hydrogen peroxide HO . Thus Glu GQDs are capable of catalyzing the reduction of HO.

While the formation of Glu GQDs using glutamic acid has been described above other organic starting materials can be used to form other GQDs. GQDs have also been successfully formed according to the methods described herein using tyrosine maltose glucose sucrose galactose lactose and fructose. Based on these successes it is expected that hydrophilic compounds having two or more carboxyl or hydroxyl functional groups will form GQDs according to the present disclosure. These hydrophilic compounds include those with any permutation of the two functional groups i.e. two or more carboxyl groups two or more hydroxyl groups and one or more carboxyl groups with one or more hydroxyl groups . Thus suitable organic starting materials are expected to include sugars and amino acids that have two or more carboxyl or hydroxyl functional groups. Combinations of different compounds that have similar boiling temperatures are also expected to be suitable. Therefore in some embodiments suitable organic starting materials include but are not limited to glutamic acid aspartic acid tyrosine serine threonine maltose glucose sucrose galactose lactose fructose and combinations thereof. The same parameters regarding heat a temperature within 20 C. of the starting material s boiling point and time no longer than ten minutes described above with respect to glutamic acid also apply to these other starting materials. Some other starting materials can also be heated until they turn from a generally colorless liquid to a darker shade e.g. yellow brown .

The GQDs produced according to the present disclosure can be used for sensing applications as the GQDs exhibit fluorescence. One interesting property of the GQDs produced according to the methods described herein is that the emission wavelengths of the GQDs can be tuned based on the excitation wavelength. GQDs formed according to the present disclosure have peak emissions over a range of wavelengths depending on the starting material used to produce the GQDs and the excitation wavelength to which the GQDs are exposed. Generally excitation wavelengths between 310 nm and 380 nm are used to excite the GQDs. Once excited at these wavelengths the GQDs emit light having peak maximum wavelengths between 400 nm and 495 nm. The GQDs also emit light in the NIR range having relative maximum wavelengths between 800 nm and 885 nm. As shown in the tunable nature of the maximum intensity wavelength is demonstrated. also show the peak NIR emissions for GQDs. illustrate the fluorescence intensity of the emission wavelengths of maltose glucose tyrosine sucrose galactose and glutamic acid respectively based on a number of different excitation wavelengths. For example illustrates that GQDs produced using maltose have peak intensity emissions at about 456 nm when excited at 300 nm at about 464 nm when excited at 340 nm at about 470 nm when excited at 360 nm at about 502 nm when excited at 400 nm at about 520 nm when excited at 440 nm and at about 540 nm when excited at 480 nm.

The following examples describe properties of the GQDs produced using glutamic acid and the method steps used in their production.

L glutamic acid Ludox SM 30 colloidal silica 30 wt. suspension in water hydrogen peroxide 2 2 azino bis 3 ethylbenzothiazoline 6 sulphonic acid ABTS fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC isomer I rhodamine 101 and phosphate buffered saline PBS tablet were obtained from Sigma Aldrich. Deionized water 18.3 M cm was produced using a Millipore water purification system.

Glu GQDs were synthesized by pyrolyzing glutamic acid. Briefly 2.0 grams g of solid glutamic acid was settled into a glass bottle and heated to 210 C. with a heating mantle. After the glutamic acid melted the colorless liquid turned to a pale yellow and brown after about 45 seconds of boiling. This color change indicated the carbonization of the glutamic acid resulting from pyrolysis and the formation of Glu GQDs. Following the color change 10.0 mL of deionized water was added to the Glu GQD solution followed by stirring for 30 minutes. No surface passivation agents or inorganic additives were needed for the generation of the Glu GQDs. Once the Glu GQD solution temperature reached room temperature the solution was centrifuged 10 000 g 30 min . The GQD containing supernatant formed during centrifugation was collected. Though not wishing to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that residual glutamic acid acted as a surface passivation agent yielding extremely stable and highly fluorescent Glu GQDs. The resulting Glu GQD solution was stored at room temperature for 5 months without precipitation.

A JEOL JEM 2100 high resolution transmission electron microscope HRTEM was used to characterize the Glu GQDs at an operating voltage of 200 kV. The size distribution of the Glu GQDs was measured and graphed using an ImageJ Fourier transform infrared FTIR spectrometer Peking . Energy dispersive X ray spectroscopy EDS performed using a Hitachi SU8010 field scanning electron microscope SEM at an operating voltage of 5 kV was used to analyze the relative content of carbon nitrogen and oxygen in the glutamic acid and the Glu GQDs. A Shimadzu UV 250 UV Vis spectrometer was used for measurements of the UV Vis absorption spectrum of the Glu GQDs. The fluorescence spectra lifetime and quantum yields were measured using a Jobin Yvon Horiba Fluorometer 3 Model FL 3 11 spectrofluorometer. Zeta potential was detected using the Zetasizer Marlwen model of Nano ZS by adjusting the pH of the Glu GQDs from 2.0 to 12.0 with PBS.

The Glu GQDs lattice space was measured to be 0.246 nm from a TEM image. The average diameter of the Glu GQDs was found to be 4.66 1.24 nm according to statistical calculations based on more than 100 individual dots. The size distribution showed uniform dimensions of the prepared Glu GQDs. illustrates a graph showing the size distribution of Glu GQDs prepared as described above.

The element content of Glu GQDs was analyzed using EDS. As a comparison the element content of the glutamic acid used to prepare the Glu GQDs was also analyzed. The EDS results showed that the glutamic acid contained the following element amounts 48.73 C 9.54 N and 41.73 O . Following pyrolysis of the glutamic acid Glu GQDs were formed. Compared to the glutamic acid the carbon content of Glu GQDs increased from 48.73 to 60.01 . Meanwhile the oxygen content decreased from 41.73 to 34.60 and the nitrogen content decreased from 9.54 to 5.39 . This result indicated that the glutamic acid was carbonized as a result of pyrolysis.

The structural change from glutamic acid to Glu GQDs was further characterized using FTIR. illustrates FTIR spectra of glutamic acid a and Glu GQDs b . The appearance of peaks at 3000 cmand 1500 cmindicated the stretching of C C bonds and the formation of Glu GQDs. The stretching vibrations of O H C O and N H in spectrum b indicated the presence of hydroxyl carboxyl and amide groups in the Glu GQDs. The oxygen containing and nitrogen containing groups provide high water solubility and stability of the Glu GQDs in solution.

The zeta potential of Glu GQDs in different pH values was also investigated. The zeta potential changed from positive 6.81 mV to negative 23.2 mV as pH was increased from 2 to 12. The large zeta potential change is related to the formation of the amino and carboxyl groups in Glu GQDs. Because of the reaction activity of the amino and carboxyl groups biomolecules such as antibodies and aptamers could be easily conjugated onto Glu GQDs for further applications.

A key feature of Glu GQDs prepared according to the present disclosure is displayed in their fluorescence properties. illustrates UV vis absorption spectra and photoluminescence PL spectra of Glu GQDs. The Glu GQDs showed two obvious absorption peaks at 238 nm and 335 nm respectively curve a . The peak around 238 nm is attributed to transitions of C C bonds. The apparent peak at 335 nm indicates the uniform size of the spclusters in the Glu GQDs even though these spclusters were doped in the spmatrix. When Glu GQDs were excited at 360 nm curve b the Glu GQDs showed a strong fluorescence peak at 440 nm curve c . This fluorescence is strong enough to be observed by the naked eye. This feature indicated the high quantum yield of Glu GQDs and their promising applications for fluorescence imaging. In addition fluorescence emission spectra showed an excitation dependent behavior. The emission peak of the Glu GQDs shifted from 415 nm violet to 580 nm red when the excitation wavelength was changed from 320 nm to 540 nm. illustrates fluorescence emission spectra of Glu GQDs.

The fluorescence properties of Glu GQDs were also investigated using a fluorescence microscope. With the irradiation of violet 330 385 nm blue 460 500 nm and green 535 585 nm light the Glu GQDs emitted strong blue green and red fluorescence respectively. The Glu GQD precursor glutamic acid showed no absorption in the violet region and no fluorescence in the range of violet to visible. Thus all of these fluorescence properties are related to the formation of Glu GQDs.

The fluorescence quantum yield and lifetime of Glu GQDs was measured. Quantum yield was calculated according to the equation 

The fluorescence lifetime of Glu GQDs was analyzed using the time correlated single photon counting TCSPC method at different emission wavelengths with 370 nm LED excitation. A sample of Ludox SM 30 colloidal silica was used as the reference. The fluorescence emissions tested showed well fitting triple exponential function. The observed lifetimes of Glu GQDs at 445 nm 505 nm and 650 nm are summarized in Table 1. The average fluorescence lifetime was in the range of 0.31 nanoseconds to 0.50 nanoseconds. The observed lifetime of Glu GQDs demonstrate promise for optoelectronic and biological applications.

Compared to traditional organic dyes such as Fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC the Glu GQDs can not only emit fluorescence at different wavelengths but also show much higher photostability. The fluorescence of FITC was bleached by 70 under a confocal laser in about 2 minutes. However the fluorescence of Glu GQDs still showed strong fluorescence intensity only 47 bleached even after 18 min of the same irradiation. illustrates the relative photostability of FITC and Glu GQDs. This higher photostability provides Glu QGDs with high potential for in vitro and in vivo fluorescence imaging discussed in greater detail below.

The stability of Glu GQDs at different pH values was also investigated. illustrates the fluorescence intensity of Glu GQDs at different pH values. Results showed that Glu GQDs had the highest fluorescence intensity at pH 7.0. In the range of pH 5.0 9.0 changes in the fluorescence intensity were less than 1.4 . This range covers the majority of pH values in living systems. When pH was below 5.0 or higher than 9.0 the fluorescence intensity of the Glu GQDs was reduced by 32.3 . The significant stability of Glu GQDs over the large range of pH may come from the surface amino group and carboxyl group which could resist pH effects on the fluorescence intensity of Glu GQDs.

Besides the fluorescence emission in blue green and red regions the Glu GQDs emitted a relatively lower near infrared NIR fluorescence around 815 nm with irradiation at 360 nm. The intensity ratio of 815 nm to 440 nm was 0.2 according to the fluorescence spectra . The NIR peak was significantly higher than the 2 diffraction peak shown in . Similar to the fluorescence property in the visible region the peak in the NIR region showed red shift when the excitation wavelength was increased. The fluorescence intensity of the Glu GQDs in the NIR region was proportional to the concentration of the Glu GQDs in the range of 0.468 15.0 mg mL . This relationship indicates that the NIR fluorescence must be attributed to the Glu GQDs even though the mechanism is not clear yet. With this NIR fluorescence whose Stock shift was as large as 450 nm these Glu GQDs can be very useful for fluorescence bioimaging and biosensing. In the NIR region biological samples typically have low background fluorescence signals providing high signal to noise ratio for the Glu GQDs. Additionally NIR radiation can penetrate into sample matrices deeply due to low light scattering. Thus Glu GQDs are promising labeling reagents for sensitive determination and imaging of biological targets. The result showed a value similar to that of the visible fluorescence described above.

The fluorescence imaging of a cell treated with Glu GQDs was detected with laser confocal microscopy under different excitation wavelengths Zeiss LSM 510 Meta Confocal Microscope . Briefly murine alveolar macrophage cells MH S were cultured overnight at 37 C. on plates in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum in a 5 COenvironment. The cultured cells were washed twice with PBS pH 7.4 . Afterwards a 2 mL aliquot of 10 mg mL Glu GQDs in PBS was added to the cell culture medium followed by a 1 hour culture at 37 C. in a 5 COenvironment. The cultured cells were washed twice using PBS and imaged using the Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope. The MH S cells incubated with Glu GQDs in PBS showed strong green LP 475 and red LP 530 colors upon excitation at 458 nm and 514 nm respectively. However no similar fluorescence was observed from the control group that was not incubated with the Glu GQDs. These results demonstrate that Glu GQDs can emit strong fluorescence in the green to red range under different excitation wavelengths for in vitro fluorescence imaging.

The in vivo fluorescence imaging of mice treated with Glu GQDs was carried out using an IVIS imaging system IVIS Lumina XR Caliper . Male athymic BALB c nu mice with weights of 20 25 grams were obtained from Charles River Wilmington Mass. and maintained in the University of North Dakota Animal Center. All animal operations were in accord with approved institutional animal use and care regulations. The feasibility of the Glu GQDs for in vivo fluorescence imaging was investigated by subcutaneous and intramuscular injection. The mice were anesthetized and injected with a 100 L aliquot of a 25 mg mL GQD PBS solution pH 7.4 subcutaneously on the back and a 100 L aliquot of the 25 mg mL GQD PBS solution intramuscularly in the right back leg. The fluorescence images of the mice under different excitation and emission filters were captured.

Various excitations from blue to red centered at 430 nm 465 nm 500 nm 535 nm and 605 nm were used for in vivo fluorescence imaging. The following emission bandpass filters were used GFP 515 575 nm DsRed 575 650 nm and Cy5.5 695 770 nm. As the excitation wavelength increased fluorescence intensity decreased. Moreover the detectable fluorescence region had extended with the longer excitation and emission wavelengths from the intramuscularly injection spot on the right back leg. This result demonstrated that the longer wavelengths had better penetration ability than the shorter wavelengths for in vivo fluorescence imaging. Considering the decreased fluorescence intensity at the longer excitation wavelengths the optimal excitation and emission bandpass to obtain the highest signal to background ratio should be investigated for further imaging applications. The in vivo fluorescence imaging in mice under subcutaneous and intramuscular injection indicated that Glu GQDs can be used as a fluorescent labeling agent for bioimaging in both the visible and NIR regions.

In addition to their optical properties the catalytic abilities of Glu GQDs were also investigated. It was reported that materials containing aromatic spcarbon clusters had an intrinsic peroxidase like catalytic activity which produced a blue color reaction in the presence of HOand peroxidase substrate 3 3 5 5 tetramethylbenzidine TMB . For example both carbon nanotubes and graphene sheets were used for the label free detection of glucose and single nucleotide polymorphism through their intrinsic peroxidase like catalytic activity. Inspired by this work Glu GQDs formed as described above were tested to determine whether they could be used for label free colorimetric sensing as a catalyst.

A solution containing 5.4 mg mL Glu GQDs was dissolved in 110 L of 10 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 5.0 followed by the addition of 7.2 mM 2 2 azino bis 3 ethylbenzothiazoline 6 sulphonic acid ABTS . Hydrogen peroxide HO was added to the Glu GQD ABTS solution. The absorption spectra of HO curve a the Glu GQD ABTS solution with HO curve b and the Glu GQD ABTS solution without HO curve c were recorded after 2 minutes of reaction time and are illustrated in .

With the addition of HO the Glu GQDs catalyzed the reduction of hydrogen peroxide indicated by the color change of the solution to green in the presence of the peroxidase substrate ABTS. The absorbance change of ABTS at 416 nm can be used for monitoring the reaction rate and the peroxidase like catalytic activity of Glu GQDs. Compared to the control groups including the solution without Glu GQDs or HO the signal to background ratio was higher than 9. Thus the peroxidase like catalytic activity of Glu GQDs can be used for the detection of HO.

The detection conditions for catalyzing the HOreaction using the Glu GQDs were optimized. The optimized conditions included pH reaction temperature and the concentrations of ABTS and the Glu GQDs. The pH value was found to be a critical factor for the detection of HO. It was previously reported that the optimal pH for a carbon nanoparticle catalyzed HOreaction was 4.0. Our results showed that at a low pH range 3.0 5.0 the reaction rate was very stable . However the reaction rate decreased above pH 5.0. Therefore pH 5.0 was chosen as the optimal pH. The reaction temperature was also found to affect the catalytic reaction rate. As shown in a higher temperature would increase the reaction rate. Normal human body temperature 37 C. was selected as the standard condition for analyzing HO. The use of ABTS as a substrate was found to affect the sensitivity of the colorimetric detection of HO. As shown in the reaction rate increased as the concentration of ABTS increased until it reached a concentration of 7.2 mM. Therefore 7.2 mM of ABTS was chosen as the optimal concentration. The concentration of the Glu GQDs was found to be proportional to the reaction rate . However a high concentration of Glu GQDs could affect the absorption of the ABTS. Therefore a concentration of 5.40 mg mL Glu GQDs was chosen as the optimal concentration for detection.

Under the above optimized conditions the detection of HOwas carried out using this Glu GQD based label free colorimetric system. As shown in with the increase of the concentration of HO the absorbance increased in a concentration dependent manner. This assay provides rapid detection 2 min of HOwith a linear range of HOfrom 0.1 mM to 10 mM . The limit of detection was found to be 20 M according to the calibration curve at a signal to background ratio of 3.

Glu GQDs formed according to the present disclosure offer excellent fluorescence properties and peroxidase like activity. These Glu GQDs developed using a direct and simple pyrolysis of glutamic acid not only show a stable strong excitation dependent photoluminescence with high quantum yield 63.8 in the blue to red range but also provide an excitation dependent NIR fluorescence emission around 815 nm. Though the mechanism of this NIR fluorescence emission is not well understood the application potential of the NIR fluorescence is significant. By using strong visible irradiation Glu GQDs show the potential to be used for both in vitro and in vivo fluorescence imaging. Furthermore Glu GQDs possess a peroxidase like activity that can catalyze the reduction of HO. With this unique activity HOcan be detected using a label free colorimetric method.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

