---

title: Apparatus and system for multi-mode wireless communication
abstract: A multi-mode controller (MMC) manages communications on a wireless device to provide interoperability between multiple radio access technologies (RATs) or radio access protocols.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392496&OS=09392496&RS=09392496
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09392496
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140318
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 803 102 filed 2013 Mar. 18 and having the title APPARATUS AND SYSTEM FOR MULTI MODE WIRELESS COMMUNICATION which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to communications and more particularly to wireless communications.

Numerous cellular technologies exist such as for example third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G long term evolution LTE a variety of code division multiple access CDMA technologies and a variety of other radio access technologies RAT or radio access protocols . In view of the existence of different RATs there are ongoing efforts to improve inter RAT handshaking and inter RAT handoffs.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods for multi mode wireless communications. Briefly described one embodiment comprises a multi mode controller MMC that manages communications on a wireless device to provide interoperability between multiple radio access technologies RATs or radio access protocols .

Other systems devices methods features and advantages will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Some conventional multi mode devices e.g. smartphone tablet netbook etc. support both a code division multiple access CDMA protocol and a long term evolution LTE protocol. For some of those multi mode configurations e.g. such as that shown in an application processor AP houses a main user interface UI and an applications layer APPS . Those multi mode devices communicate with the different modem radio access technologies RATs or radio access protocols such as LTE and CDMA through inter processor communication schemes.

In order to ensure seamless packet data service delivery from one radio access technology RAT to another the AP must orchestrate the selection of a network to acquire and perform inter RAT handshaking Consequently the AP must comply with a carrier s global mode system selection GMSS multi mode packet data control PKT and reselection requirements. The AP is also restricted to each RAT vendor s specific requirements and interfaces for registering and setting up calls on the RAT modem. Thus the AP vendor is required to be familiar with the specific operation of each RAT modem so as to perform interworking operations between them.

There are several drawbacks associated with these conventional multi mode schemes. First an AP controller which controls the AP is custom tailored to each RAT vendor s call flow sequence and therefore is not reusable or universal to all CDMA LTE or other RAT vendor. In other words the customized AP controller is usable only for the owner of the AP and not universal or reusable for another AP vendor. As a result conventional AP controllers are neither portable to different platforms nor operating systems OS . This obstacle to portability also affects flexibly insofar as conventional AP controllers cannot reside on other AP or RAT modem processors which hinders reusability for different vendors inter process communication IPC frameworks. Second due to this inflexibility significant efforts are typically needed to incorporate new additional carrier or vendor requirements. Additionally current solutions are not adaptable or reusable for new wireless RAT technologies. Third conventional approaches do not provide for environments that do not have an AP such as LTE CDMA data cards or data monitoring devices or different platforms such as single chip or multi chip configurations.

Various embodiments of the invention overcome these drawbacks by providing a multi mode controller MMC such as that shown in . The MMC provides an interface between the applications layer APPS and various RAT technologies such as LTE and CDMA . By acting as the interface between the APPS and the RATs e.g. LTE and CDMA the MMC provides flexibility and reusability that were previously unrealizable by the conventional AP . Furthermore the MMC permits portability to different platforms and different environments thereby allowing for simpler incorporation of new additional carrier or vendor requirements. Additionally the MMC provides a faster time to market solution for multi mode devices which can be readily integrated into an existing vendor s RAT and application software with minimal alterations to the vendor s existing software. In other words the MMC for some embodiments is a universal controller that is adaptable to different RATs without custom tailoring the AP for each new RAT or for each new change in the RAT.

Having generally described several embodiments that provide for multi mode wireless communications reference is now made in detail to the description of the embodiments as illustrated in the drawings. Specifically show numerous embodiments of systems having a MMC controller show several embodiments of processes that employ different permutations of the systems of and show several embodiments of application program interfaces APIs that are used in the processes of . While several embodiments are described in connection with these drawings there is no intent to limit the disclosure to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed herein. On the contrary the intent is to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents.

With this in mind is a block diagram showing one embodiment of a MMC protocol stack also designated as an MMC stack in an example embodiment of a wireless device. As shown in the MMC stack resides in an MMC which in turn resides in the wireless device thereby permitting the MMC to control various aspects of the wireless device. The MMC resides between an APPS and different RAT stacks such as for example a LTE stack and a CDMA stack .

The MMC is compatible with different RATs because the MMC stack comprises several components that manage inter technology operations between different RATs. Those components include a global mode system selection module GMSS a packet data control module PKT a measurement and reselection module MEAS and a circuit switch control module CSC .

The GMSS houses logic to perform global system selection based on user s configuration inputs current network locations and channel conditions. The GMSS also implements carrier specific requirements for global system selections. Specifically the GMSS searches for a network to be acquired and accessed based on a priority list. If a preferred valid system on a RAT cannot be acquired then the GMSS advances to the next RAT from the list to be acquired. In one embodiment collectively show a set of APIs that perform the triggering of the RAT acquisition for specified 3rd generation partnership project 3gpp or 3gpp2 global or stand alone modes. Depending on the mode selected a GMSS algorithm is executed to select the best available system to be acquired and validated. Once validated the acquired RAT registers for packet service until there is a handoff to a better RAT or the registered RAT loses service. It should be noted that when there are RAT status changes an indication report is also asynchronously sent and thus for some embodiments the GMSS takes further action to maintain system availability by triggering other preferred system acquisition or reselection based on various handoff criteria.

The MEAS incorporates algorithms to perform measurements on non active RAT systems. The MEAS evaluates conditions and inputs to decide whether a reselection or handoff to another preferably better system should occur. Specifically the MEAS coordinates measurement requests from an active RAT to other non active RATs. The MEAS then consolidates the measurement results from the non active RATs to the active RAT. If the reselection criteria are met the MEAS triggers a handoff from the current active RAT to the better previously non active RAT. For the particular embodiment of the MEAS conducts reselections from LTE to CDMA eHRPD evolved high rate packet data HRPD high rate packet data 1 1 standard or vice versa from CDMA to LTE in both idle and active packet data connections. In addition the MEAS works closely with GMSS to trigger system reselection when a system becomes unavailable through system loss. For some embodiments collectively show a set of APIs that handle measurement and reselection. includes APIs for a current RAT to trigger measurement commands to another RAT while the current RAT is registered in an active state or an idle state. also includes measurement commands from the MMC to the current registered RAT while the other RAT is being registered. As such the MMC solicits measurement results and then runs the reselection algorithm for inter RAT handoffs. When handoff criteria are met the MMC triggers the handoff from one RAT to the other RAT.

The PKT handles procedures for registering setting up and releasing packet data call connections for each RAT. The PKT is also responsible for maintaining continuity in packet service sessions when there is a handoff from one RAT to another. The PKT maintains a packet data network PDN table and a quality of service QOS table for the packet service. The PKT also sets up a default packet data bearer channel to the main PDN on the active RAT that is acquired. The PKT also attaches the device to this PDN by registering its packet data service thereby subsequently permitting user packet data to be transported between the device and the PDN. In addition to the default main PDN bearer setup the PKT also enables dedicated bearer setups for packet services that specify different levels of QOS with a QOS profile. For some embodiments collectively show a set of APIs for packet data service control in a RAT. includes a default bearer packet data path setup. Further includes a dedicated packet data path setup for services that require quality of service QOS differentiation. also includes a bearer disconnection and detach of a packet data path once the data path is released e.g. as part of the handoff procedure . further includes APIs for controlling data connection management during handoff events e.g. data suspend data resume disable if handoff is successful etc. .

The CSC is responsible for handling the circuit switch setup in the multi mode device for single radio configurations and or multiple radio configurations where simultaneous voice and LTE SVLTE or other RATs are supported. The CSC can be activated for a single radio configuration where the user desires to fall back to circuit switched services in addition to packet data services. The CSC also handles voice call continuity VCC handoffs between voice over IP VoIP over IMS packet data service on any RAT and CDMA 1 circuit switch voice calls. The CSC includes message routing for generic circuit switch notification application GCSNA protocol which encapsulates the CDMA 1 layer3 message to be transported across any RAT. The CSC further handles explicit registrations and de registrations on applicable RATs due to changes in services available. For some embodiments shows a set of APIs that handle CDMA 1 circuit switch setup and release for single radio configurations and or multiple radio configurations.

Insofar as the MMC interfaces to the different components the MMC also comprises various application program interface API modules. For example since the MMC interfaces to the APPS the MMC comprises an MMC AP API that sends and receives commands between the MMC stack and the APPS . Also since the MMC interfaces to the LTE stack the MMC also comprises an MMC RAT API that permits the MMC stack to send and receive commands to and from the LTE stack thereby permitting the APPS to exchange data with the LTE stack . The data lines are shown as double lined arrows in the drawings. Similarly because the MMC interfaces to the CDMA stack the MMC comprises another MMC RAT API that allows the MMC stack to send and receive commands between the MMC stack and the CDMA stack thereby providing for data communication between the CDMA stack and the APPS .

Each of the MMC RAT API modules collectively comprises a set of easy to use universal APIs for the general control of each wireless RAT protocol stack. Basically these functions include global system selection and acquisition measurement control reselection to another RAT packet call registration and setup circuit switch fallback and voice call handoff continuity. Each of the MMC RAT API is adaptable and generic to all RATs. An instance of the MMC RAT API is created to serve each RAT that is being integrated in the multi mode device. Thus it should be understood by those skilled in the art that in the particular embodiment of the two 2 MMC RAT API instances are created for connectivity to the LTE stack and CDMA stack .

The MMC AP API is a set of universal APIs that interfaces with the APPS including stacks for Internet Protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS voice over IP VoIP transmission control protocol over IP TCP IP user interfaces UIs and other applications . As such the MMC AP API sets up different 3gpp 3gpp2 LTE CDMA Global hybrid and multi modes. Furthermore the MMC AP API provides triggers for packet service from the various applications and also provides interfaces to configure the global system selection tables packet data network PDN tables and quality of service QOS tables for packet data service. Effectively through the proposed MMC the UI Applications layer APPS is transparent to the underlying packet service transport layer control through the different RATs. In other words details of each RAT acquisition and registration are hidden from the APPS and reselection among the RATs for the best packet service coverage is also hidden from the APPS . The MMC AP API controls power up and power down of the MMC which in turn controls power up and power down of the RAT connection. Additionally the MMC reports current network status or current service status to the APPS asynchronously through the MMC AP API . For some embodiments collectively show a set of APIs that allow the APPS to manage the device s packet call control including main packet service call setup and release. The APIs of also initiate the dedicated bearer packet path for application services that require QOS differentiation.

With these functions of the GMSS the PKT the MEAS and the CSC in mind attention is turned to which is a block diagram showing another embodiment of a MMC in another example embodiment of a wireless device. Specifically shows the MMC residing in an AP of a multi mode device that employs by way of example LTE and CDMA. Thus similar to the embodiment of the embodiment of the AP within the multi mode device comprises the APPS the MMC with the MMC stack the MMC AP API the MMC RAT API LTE and the MMC RAT API CDMA . Additionally the AP comprises an IP stack IPC a LTE radio interface layer RIL and a CDMA RIL .

The APPS exchange data with the IP stack IPC with the data lines being shown as double lined arrows which is responsible for data transmission and reception with external RAT modems such as for example a LTE modem and a CDMA modem . To this extent the MMC interfaces with the LTE RIL through the MMC RAT API LTE and the MMC also interfaces with the CDMA RIL through the MMC RAT API CDMA . The MMC interfaces to the APPS through the MMC AP API .

The LTE RIL is a typical wrapper layer for interfacing with the LTE modem stack on the LTE modem . As such an LTE vendor can easily interface with the MMC through the MMC RAT API LTE to perform system selection handoffs and packet service operations using LTE. The CDMA RIL is a typical wrapper layer for interfacing with the CDMA modem stack on the CDMA modem . Thus the CDMA vendor can easily interface with the MMC through the MMC RAT API CDMA to perform system selection handoffs and packet service operations using CDMA. As one can appreciate while LTE and CDMA are expressly recited to provide a clearer example the MMC RAT API can be implemented for different RATs thereby making the AP more flexible than the AP in conventional multi mode devices.

Since the application and framework layer on the AP can easily interface with the MMC AP API to control the power up and power down of each RAT and to start or stop packet data services the proposed MMC is extremely portable and independent of platform and operating system OS . In some specific embodiments the MMC resides on the AP that runs on Andriod OS Windows OS or other known OS. The MMC is also portable to either the CDMA or LTE or other RAT modem processors which are typically embedded ARM advanced RISC reduced instruction set computer machine processors running real time Nucleus RTOS real time operating system or other OS.

In the absence of a direct connection the MMC communicates with the AP through both the MMC AP API and MMC RAT API CDMA with the AP routing messages from the MMC RAT API CDMA to the other MMC RAT API LTE 

As can be seen from the embodiment of since the MMC resides on the CDMA modem the AP does not include the MMC. However the AP comprises the APPS the LTE RIL the CDMA RIL the RPC IPC AT parsers one for LTE and another for CDMA .

The MMC is independent of the underlying transport mechanism between the AP LTE and CDMA. Also the MMC RAT API and MMC AP API interface transparently with the different types of inter processor transport layers including RPC proprietary IPC protocols or AT command parsers. A thin wrapper layer is used for adapting to these different transport schemes. Thus as shown in with the MMC residing on the CDMA modem the LTE or AP can interface with the MMC APIs transparently through the underlying RPC IPC AT parser communication methods. Due to the independence of the underlying transport mechanism the MMC is upgradable and extendable to incorporate requirements from new carriers or vendors. Furthermore the independence of the transport mechanism also permits modification of existing vendor requirements. Specifically each network carrier has its own requirements for global mode system selection and packet service control. The measurement and reselection algorithms are largely compliant to 3gpp and 3gpp2 standards but carriers or vendors may have specific requirements to upgrade or enhance these algorithms. The MMC readily accommodates upgrades or modifications to different vendor or carrier requirements.

As demonstrated by the flexibility shown in and the MMC provides a universal solution for all wireless RATs including LTE CDMA eHRPD HRPD 1 global system for mobile GSM communications Wi Fi wireless protocols IEEE 802.15 communications standards Bluetooth wireless protocols etc. Core modules of the MMC are upgradable and expandable to include RAT specific requirements for systems selections measurements handoffs packet service controls etc. Thus the MMC RAT API is instantiated so that the MMC can be interfaced with each RAT.

To further demonstrate the flexibility and portability of the MMC shows one embodiment of a MMC in an example embodiment of a data card with multiple RATs on a single chip. By way of example the multiple RATs of include LTE CDMA Wi Fi and Bluetooth . Thus as shown in the data card comprises the MMC with the MMC stack with the MMC comprising multiple MMC RAT APIs namely one for each RAT MMC RAT API LTE MMC RAT API CDMA MMC RAT API Wi Fi MMC RAT API Bluetooth collectively . In other words the MMC instantiates multiple MMC RAT APIs for each type of communication. This permits the MMC to control and route packet data service between all of the RATs. Thus as shown in the MMC supports a large variety of wireless configurations and can be implemented on a single chip devices or multi chip devices and b different wireless devices such as smartphones tablets netbooks data monitoring devices and data cards.

The embodiment of the process in begins with a power up and initialization of the MMC. For this the APPS sends a MMCAPApi Power Up Req to the MMC which powers up the MMC and initializes the device for CDMA and LTE. At this step of the process there is no registered packet service and the global mode is selected. Next the process scans acquires and registers the CDMA 1 stack for voice services and then remains in an idle mode. The MMC then attempts to obtain a mobile country code MCC from any network in its current location by acquiring a RAT that is in the vicinity of the mobile device. For this embodiment the MMC obtains the MCC from an LTE RAT using MMCRATApi MCC Search Req to which the LTE responds with MMCRATApi MCC Search Rsp MCC .

The MMC then looks up its GMSS tables builds a scan list based on the carrier s GMSS algorithm and prioritizes the RAT and its class of service. Thereafter the MMC acquires the RAT and updates its status. This is done by the MMC sending MMCRATApi PS Reg Req to the LTE thus acquiring the LTE attaching the cell and returning confirmation through MMCRATApi PS Reg Resp Success and MMCRATApi Network State Change Ind LTE CellAttached .

The process then receives a data connection request when the APPS sends to the MMC MMCAPApi Packet Call Setup Req. At this point the MMC registers and sets up default bearer paths. For some embodiments the MMC sends to the LTE a MMCRATApi Default Bearer Req PDNId which attaches the PDN and sets up the default bearer path to the main PDN. The LTE returns MMCRATApi Default Bearer Rsp PDNId IPAddr IId and MMCRATApi Network State Change Ind LTE Registered . Once the default bearer paths are registered and set up the process can either receive an initiation of a dedicated bearer setup from the LTE or the process can receive an initiation of a dedicated bearer setup from the APPS.

The initiation from the LTE is received by the MMC through MMCRATApi Dedicated Bearer Ind PDNId BearerId QOSProfile TFT etc. at which point the MMC sets up the dedicated bearer path by sending to the APPS a MMCAPApi Packet Dedicated Setup Ind.

Alternatively the initiation from the APPS is received through MMCAPApi Packet Dedicated Setup Req at which point the MMC sets up the dedicated bearer path by sending MMCAPApi Dedicated Bearer Req PDNId BearerId QOS Profile TFT etc. to the LTE. The LTE sets up the dedicated bearer paths and returns MMCRATApi Dedicated Bearer Rsp PDNId BearerId to the MMC. The MMC then sends MMCAPApi Packet Dedicated Setup Rsp to the APPS.

The process then determines whether or not to trigger redirection. Redirection is triggered when the LTE sends MMCRATApi System Change Req Cause Redirection to the MMC which indicates that measurement report conditions are satisfied thereby triggering LTE to CDMA redirection. So as shown in if there is no redirect triggered then the PS continues on LTE. On the other hand when the measurement conditions for redirect are met the process triggers redirection from LTE to CDMA eHRPD . This is done by registering eHRPD and opening a session. The process then attempts a handoff from LTE to CDMA with the MMC sending to the LTE MMCRATApi DataConnection Req Suspend at which point the LTE suspends its PS and returns MMCRATApi Data Connection Rsp Suspend .

The process then determines whether there is a successful handoff. If there is no successful handoff then the PS continues on LTE. However if there is a successful handoff then the MMC sends MMCRATApi System Change Rsp Success Cause Redirection to the LTE. Thereafter the process disables the LTE and begins PS on CDMA. The MMC disables the LTE by sending to the LTE MMCRATApi DataConnection Req Disable resulting in the LTE disabling its LTE stack removing PDN context information and entering idle mode. The LTE then sends to the MMC MMCRATApi DataConnection Rsp Disable and MMCRATApi Network State Change Ind LTE Inactive which completes the handoff so that the device continues its PS using CDMA eHRPD .

If however the reselection criteria are met then the process runs the CDMA to LTE reselection algorithm and acquires the LTE. The MMC acquires the LTE by sending MMCRATApi Cell Info PS Reg Req Freq F CellInfo to the LTE at which point the LTE attaches the cell and returns both MMCRATApi Cell Info PS Reg Rsp Freq F and MMCRATApi Network State Change Ind LTE CellAttached to the MMC and the process suspends CDMA eHRPD packet data.

At this point the process sets up the default bearer path with the main PDN. This is initiated when the MMC sends MMCRATApi Default Bearer Req PDNId HandoverAttach IPv6 Info to the LTE. The LTE then attaches the PDN sets up the default bearers to the main PDN and returns MMCRATApi Default Bearer Rsp PDNId IPAddr IId and MMCRATApi Network State Change Ind LTE Registered to the MMC. Thereafter the PS is on LTE and the CDMA stack is disabled with the LTE sending to the MMC MMCRATApi DataConnection Rsp Disable and MMCRATApi Network State Change Ind LTE Inactive . From here the process sets up dedicated bearer paths similar to that shown in steps or .

Based on those measurements the process determines whether or not to initiate redirection. If no redirect is initiated then the process continues to perform the periodic CDMA measurements. However if the threshold for redirect is met then the process triggers redirection for example with the MMC receiving from the LTE MMCRATApi System Change Req HO Prep 1  Params Cause 1  CS Redirection . The MMC then suspends LTE by sending MMCRATApi DataConnection Req Suspend to the LTE. The LTE then suspends the LTE packet data and transmits to the MMC MMCRATApi DataConnection Rsp Suspend thereby suspending the VoIP IMS packet data on the LTE.

The process then continues the handoff from LTE to CDMA with the MMC sending MMCRATApi 1 CS Redirect Req HO Prep Info 1  Params to the CDMA and receiving MMCRATApi GCSNA Msg Origination from the CDMA. The MMC then sends MMCRATApi GCSNA Msg Origination to the LTE and receives MMCRATApi GCSNA Msg UHDM from the LTE which the MMC then sends to the CDMA. The CDMA then acquires 1 and sends to the network an indication that the handoff is complete. This is done by sending MMCRATApi 1 CS Redirect Rsp Success to the MMC which sends MMCRATApi System Change Rsp Success Cause Redirection to the LTE.

The process then disables the LTE with the MMC sending to the LTE MMCRATApi DataConnection Req Disable which disables the LTE stack removes the PDN context information at the LTE and places the LTE in idle mode. The PS is on CDMA eHRPD with the LTE sending to the MMC both MMCRATApi DataConnection Rsp Disable and MMCRATApi Network State Change Ind LTE Inactive .

As shown in the MMC permits implementation of a large variety of wireless configurations. By acting as the interface between the APPS and the RATs the MMC provides flexibility and reusability that were previously unrealizable by the conventional AP. Furthermore the MMC permits portability to different platforms and different environments thereby allowing for simpler incorporation of new additional carrier or vendor requirements. Additionally the MMC provides a faster time to market solution for multi mode devices which can be readily integrated into an existing vendor s RAT and application software with minimal alterations to the vendor s existing software.

The MMC may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment s the MMC is implemented in hardware using any or a combination of the following technologies which are all well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc. In an alternative embodiment the MMC is implemented in software or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system.

Any process descriptions or blocks in flowcharts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the preferred embodiment of the present disclosure in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those reasonably skilled in the art of the present disclosure.

The APIs in which comprise executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable storage media having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium includes for example but not limited to a hard disk solid state drive a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM Flash memory an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing or other storage hardware. Thus a computer readable storage medium includes any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium is a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Aspects of the invention were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although exemplary embodiments have been shown and described it will be clear to those of ordinary skill in the art that a number of changes modifications or alterations to the disclosure as described may be made. All such changes modifications and alterations should therefore be seen as within the scope of the disclosure.

