---

title: Systems and methods for facilitating mimic driven operations in digital imaging devices
abstract: Systems and methods for facilitating processing of at least one value of attribute(s) on a device such as an imaging device or a printing device. A method includes providing a GUI including graphical format object(s) corresponding to a number of attributes on a display device associated with the device. The method further includes allowing a user to manipulate the graphical format object(s) by dragging the graphical format object(s) of the GUI. The method also includes creating a graphical representation for the attributes based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects by the user. The method also includes defining one or more values of the attributes based on the graphical representation. Further, the method includes saving the graphical representation and the values of the attributes. One or more operations can be executed on the device based on the saved graphical representation and the values of the attributes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594531&OS=09594531&RS=09594531
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09594531
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141024
---
The presently disclosed embodiments relate to digital electronic devices and more particularly to methods and systems for facilitating a user to process at least one value of a plurality of attributes on a device such as a printing device an imaging device etc.

Digital electronic devices such as digital printing devices digital imaging devices etc. are equipped with features and functionalities to satisfy a variety of users ranging from a novice user to an expert user. Generally these features are selected or modified based on selection of an item from a menu on a graphical user interface GUI or by entering values for the individual features.

The imaging devices or printing devices often have a wide variety of operating attributes that can be set by the users of these devices. Current imposition or finishing application on various imaging printing devices enables users to define a layout and or finishing operations via entering or selection of attributes with associated values. The user is provided with an updated mimic view of how the final output will look as the attributes and values are selected. The process can be time consuming as the user has to adjust the settings for individual attributes to yield a mimic display that meets user s expectations. Most of the time user is unaware of the context of some attributes and may not be able to select the value properly.

In light of above discussion there exists need for techniques for facilitating mimic driven operations in digital imaging systems or devices.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for facilitating processing of at least one value of a number of attributes on a device. The method includes providing a graphical user interface GUI by a device manager on a display device associated with the device. The GUI includes a number of graphical format objects corresponding to each of the attributes. The method also includes allowing a user to manipulate the graphical format objects by at least one of selecting and moving one or more of the plurality of graphical format objects of the GUI. The method also includes creating a graphical representation for the attributes based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects by the user. The method further includes defining one or more values of the attributes based on the graphical representation. The method also includes saving the graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes. The one or more operations are executed on the device based on the saved graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system for facilitating a user to process at least one value of a number of attributes on a device. The system also includes a display manager configured to display a graphical user interface including a number of graphical format objects on a display device associated with the device. The graphical format objects are corresponding to each of the attributes. The GUI allows a user to manipulate the graphical format objects. The system also includes an attribute processing manager configured to create a graphical representation for the attributes based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects by the user define one or more values of the attributes based on the graphical representation and save the graphical representation and the one or more values of the plurality of attributes. The system further includes an execution manager configured to execute one or more operations on the device based on the saved graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes.

A further embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for facilitating a user to process at least one value of a number of attributes on a display device of an imaging device. The method includes providing a graphical user interface GUI including a number of graphical format objects on a touch sensitive display device by a display manager. The graphical format objects are corresponding to each of the attributes. The method also includes allowing a user or computer device to manipulate the graphical format objects by dragging one or more of the graphical format objects of the GUI displayed by the display manager. The method also includes creating a graphical representation for the attributes based on the graphical format objects by the user. The method also includes defining one or more values for the attributes based on the graphical representation. The method further includes saving the graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes. Further one or more operations may be executed on a job based on the created and saved graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes. In some embodiments the one or more operations include at least one of one or more imposition operations and one or more finishing operations.

A yet another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system for facilitating a user to process at least one value of a number of attributes on a digital imaging device. The system includes a touch sensitive display device including a display manager configured to display a graphical user GUI including a number of graphical format objects. The graphical format objects are corresponding to each of the attributes. The GUI allows a user to manipulate the graphical format objects by dragging one or more of the graphical format objects. The system also includes an attribute processing manager configured to create a graphical representation for the attributes based on the manipulation of the plurality of graphical format objects by the user. The attribute processing manager is also configured to define one or more values for the attributes based on the graphical representation. The attribute processing manager is also configured to save the graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes. The system also includes an execution manager configured to execute one or more operations on a job based on the saved graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes. Further the one or more operations include at least one of one or more imposition operations and one or more finishing operations. The execution manager is also configured to export the saved graphical representation for use with another device capable of recognizing the saved graphical representation. The execution manager is further configured to execute the exported graphical representation on a separate additional device.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Preferred embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosure not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations in the description that follows.

It will be readily understood that the components of the disclosed embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of the apparatus system and method of the disclosed subject matter as presented in the Figures is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosed subject matter as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the disclosed subject matter.

The functional units described in this specification have been labeled as managers and directors. A manager and or director may be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as processors digital signal processors central processing units field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices cloud processing systems or the like. The manager and or director may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified manager and or director of executable code may for instance comprises one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure function or other construct. Nevertheless the executables of an identified manager and or director need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the manager and or director and achieve the stated purpose of the manager and or director.

Indeed a manager and or director of executable code could be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different applications and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within the manager and or director and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially as electronic signals on a system or network.

Reference throughout this specification to a select embodiment one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. Thus appearances of the phrases a select embodiment in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the disclosed subject matter can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

In this disclosure the term device can include a digital electronic device having a display unit for displaying at least one graphical user interface to a user. The device can include but is not limited to a printing device an imaging device photocopier a xerographic photocopier a paper handler a document finisher a scanner a printer a fax machine or any appropriate device device driver client device or system for a graphical user interface for an imaging or printing device.

As used herein a graphical user interface GUI can include an interface on the device enabling a user to interact with the device. The GUI may include one or more graphical format objects. The term graphical format object can refer to icons or images corresponding to at least one attribute or property of the device. Further the term attribute can include a property defining at least one feature of the device.

As used herein the term imposition operation can include an operation that may be performed on a job such as a print job of the device. The imposition operation may include operations for defining a placement of one or more pages on a number of sheets such as selecting an orientation of the page and sequencing the one or more pages. The imposition operation may also include an operation for defining a number of finishing operations. Further the term print job can refer to a file or multiple files submitted to a printing device for printing. The imposing operation may also include one or more stacking operations and operations that define at least one finishing location for one or more finishing operations.

The term finishing operation may include operations such as stapling punching folding etc. on various pages of the print job. The terms jog jogging or jogging operation refers to offsetting of stacked output. The result is a variable vertical edge usually two positions on the vertical edge of the stack.

The term Digital Front End DFE can refer to a controller of a printing device such as a digital printing device a copier printer digital copier etc. The DFE is capable of loading files from multiple sources such as network for printing on the device. A DFE converts PDL Page Description Language files and printing instructions into print engine consumable images and print instructions. The DFE has a display mechanism by which users can define print instructions for jobs. These instructions can cover image quality finishing orientation etc. The DFE in the process of converting to print engine images resolves differing sources e.g. job ticket queue settings of job instructions into a single set of instructions. The DFE is also capable of interfacing with a print driver from a networked device or client device interface.

The device or system for facilitating a user to process at least one value of a number of attributes may be a software hardware firmware or combination of these. The device or the system is further intended to include or otherwise cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. for the disclosed purposes. For example exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the disclosed processes. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations disclosed below.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments the disclosed computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages.

Some of the disclosed embodiments include or otherwise involve data transfer over a network such as communicating various inputs or files over the network. The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. The network may include multiple networks or sub networks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice data communications. In one implementation the network includes a cellular telephone network configured to enable exchange of text or SMS messages.

Examples of a network include but are not limited to a personal area network PAN a storage area network SAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual private network VPN an enterprise private network EPN Internet a global area network GAN and so forth.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to methods devices systems computers and computer readable mediums and graphical user interfaces that can facilitate a user to process at least one value of a number of attributes on a device such as an imaging or a printing device. A graphical user interface GUI can have a number of graphical format objects provided on a display device of the device. The graphical format objects correspond to the attributes of the device. The GUI is configurable to allow a user to manipulate the graphical format objects by either selecting or dragging one or more of the graphical format objects of the GUI on the display manager in a click and drag or touch and drag manner. In the functions and display of the GUI a graphical representation can be created for the attributes based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects. Further one or more values of the attributes are defined based on the graphical representation. The graphical representation may be saved along with the one or more values of the attributes. The one or more operations then may be executed or performed on the device based on the saved graphical representation and or the values of the attributes. In some embodiments the saved graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes are exported to a second device or another device for execution. Then the graphical representation and the one or more values may be executed on the second device or the another device for performing at least one operation. The another device is capable of recognizing the saved graphical representation and the values of the one or more attributes.

In an exemplary scenario when the device is a printing device or a digital printing device the display device may display a GUI including graphical format objects corresponding to attributes such as but not limited to numbered pages sheets finishing operations simplex mode duplex mode and so forth to the user. In the exemplary embodiment the display device may display a GUI including graphical format objects corresponding to any appropriate attribute for a printing device. The user may first select a graphical representation of an imposition operation such as selecting a simplex or a duplex graphical sheet or a series of sheets . The user then may select numbered graphical pages and drag and drop the numbered pages on the sheets. The pages can be oriented in any right angle orientation by the user. The orientation can be performed by manipulating the icon for sheet orientation using a finger on a touch screen or a pointing device such as a stylus using a mouse or voice commands. The user can then select graphical objects representing finishing operations such as staple fold and punch. The user then may apply the finishing operation by dragging and dropping the graphical object representing the operation onto one of the appropriate regions on the graphical sheets. For operations such as jog the user can choose a stack orientation for the graphical representation of the sheets. The user then may shift the graphical sheets representing the chosen jog operation.

The values attributes updates are illustrated on the display device as the layout finishing operations are defined. The user may also apply one or more imposition functions operations related settings throughout the job e.g. 2 Up scenario as Duplex or can set an exception for a particular page in the job. For example with a 100 page job the user can choose 2 Up as Duplex for all pages except page number 50 which can be dragged and dropped on the display device to indicate the particular page should be simplex. In an exemplary embodiment the user can choose to manipulate the attribute values by switching to attribute value menu to drive outcomes.

As shown in the display device may be configured to display at least one graphical user interface GUI to the user . In some embodiments the display device can display a graphical user interface GUI having a number of graphical format objects to the user . The GUI provides an interface to the user to interact with the device .

The imaging device can include the display device B configured to display at least one GUI to the user . The GUI provides an interface to the user to interact with the imaging device .

In some embodiments a print driver is associated with the device or the imaging device . In an exemplary printing application the application can have its own set of printing tools and print drivers that are associated with a server or client computer such as computer. The print driver or application will have a graphical user interface associated with it. The exemplary GUI and methods described in the embodiments can be used with a print driver or with other software associated with a printing device such as but not limited to print submission software or other appropriate printing software.

In some embodiments the graphical format objects can correspond to a number of attributes. The attributes may define one or more properties for the device. The graphical format objects may represent number of pages number of sheets i.e. simplex duplex etc. and finishing operations. The GUI can allow the user to selectively manipulate the graphical format objects with drag and drop operations. The one or more of the graphical format objects may be manipulated by the user to create a graphical representation of the imposition finishing operation to be applied on a print job. The print job may be a job for printing at least one file on a suitable media such as a paper a glass a plastic sheet cloth and so forth. Examples of the operation may include but are not limited to page placement on sheets including orientation and sequencing finishing operation like stapling finishing location like staple location and stacking operation like jogging.

In some embodiments the GUI allows the user to manipulate the graphical format objects for at least one page of a job. In alternative embodiments the GUI allows the user to manipulate more than one page of multiple pages of a job. The job may be a print job that can be executed on the device A or B. In some embodiments the user manipulates the graphical format objects or alternatively text shown on the GUI to create a graphical representation of the operations such as imposition or finishing operations which may be applied while executing a job such as a printing job on the device or another device.

The attribute processing manager can be configured to create a graphical representation for the attributes based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects by the user . The attribute processing manager can also be configured to define one or more values of the attributes based on the graphical representation. The attribute processing manager may also save the graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes in a memory not shown . The memory may be inbuilt within the device A or may be an external memory accessible by the device A. In some embodiments the graphical representation is saved using a pre defined format such as but not limited to a Xerox Print Interface XPIF format using Common Print Semantics Specification CPSS Job Description Format JDF and DFE internal job queue attribute value format. In some embodiments the attribute processing manager is further configured to selectively save the graphical representation and the one or more value for the attributes for one or more of the pages of the job. The job may be a print job for printing one or more files including one or more pages onto a media such as but not limiting to a paper glass a cloth a plastic sheet and so forth.

Further the execution manager of the device is configured to execute one or more operations on the device based on the saved graphical representation. The one or more operations may include at least one operation for defining a placement of one or more pages on a number of sheets including selecting an orientation of the page and sequencing the one or more pages. The operations may also include a number of finishing operations and or stacking operations. Examples of the finishing operations may include but are not limited to stapling punching folding and so forth. Example of the stacking operation may include but not limited to jogging and so forth. The operations may also include operation for defining at least one finishing location for at least one of the finishing operations.

In some embodiments the execution manager is also configured to export the saved graphical representation for use by another device or additional devices. In an embodiment the saved graphical representation is exported from a first device or device to a second device another device . The another device can be any suitable electronic device that is capable of receiving recognizing and executing upon the saved graphical representation. In an exemplary embodiment additional devices may include but are not limited to printers imaging devices photocopiers xerographic photocopiers paper handlers document finishers scanners printers a fax machine or any appropriate imaging or printing device. Further a second execution manager not shown on the another device can be configured to execute the exported graphical representation on the another device. The second execution manager may be similar in functionality to the execution manager .

In an exemplary embodiment illustrated in a display manager B manages a touch sensitive display device of the device B. The user can manipulate or select one or more graphical format objects by touching and dragging the graphical format objects on the touch sensitive display device using his her finger thumb or a pointing device such as a stylus using a mouse or voice commands.

At step a graphical user interface GUI is provided to the user on the display device or touch sensitive display device of the device or A B . The display device may be the touch sensitive display device . In some embodiments the display manager A or B displays the GUI on the display device . The graphical user interface GUI may include a number of graphical format objects. Each of the graphical format objects is associated with at least one of the attributes of the device . In some embodiments the graphical format objects represent at least one of a page selection at least one sheet mode and the one or more finishing operations. The sheet mode may be a simplex mode and a duplex mode.

Further the user is capable of manipulating the graphical format objects. At step the user is allowed to manipulate the graphical format objects by selecting and or dragging one or more of the graphical format objects of the GUI. In some embodiments the GUI is configured to allow the user to manipulate the graphical format objects for only one page of a job. The job can be a printing job that can be executed on the device . In alternate embodiments the GUI allows the user to manipulate the graphical format objects for one or more of the pages of a job.

At step a graphical representation for the attributes is created based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects. In some embodiments the attribute processing manager creates the graphical representation for the attributes based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects. The user may manipulate the graphical format objects. As the user manipulates the graphical format objects a graphical representation based on the manipulation and is displayed to the user on the displayed device by the display manager A or B . The graphical representation can provide a mimic visualization or view to the user of a final printed output of the job.

The method continues at step where one or more values of the attributes are defined based on the graphical representation. In some embodiments the attribute processing manager defines the values of the attributes based on the graphical representation. Hence by merely moving the graphical format objects icons the user can set the values for the attributes of the device for a particular job. This is advantageous in that while setting up a print job using the GUI the user can avoid a requirement to manually record and recall exact values for a particular setting of any particular attribute. This feature can beneficially save time for the user and provide ease of use of the devices of the embodiments especially when selecting and executing attributes for large print jobs.

At step the graphical representation and the values of the attributes are saved at the device . In some embodiments the attribute processing manager saves the graphical representation and the values of the attributes in a memory of the device . Further the attribute processing manager may selectively save the graphical representation and the one or more values for the attributes for one or more pages of a job or a print job . Further the graphical representation may be saved as a queue or as combination of job attributes values using a pre defined format. Examples of the pre defined format may include such as but are not limited to a Xerox Print Interface XPIF format using Common Print Semantics Specification CPSS Job Description Format JDF and DFE internal job queue attribute value format.

Thereafter at step one or more operations are executed or performed on the device based on the saved graphical representation and the one or more values of the attributes. The one or more operations can be the operations defining a placement of one or more pages on a number of sheets including selecting an orientation of the page and sequencing the one or more pages. Further the operations may include a number of finishing operations stacking operations and one or more operations for defining at least one finishing location for the finishing operations. The finishing operations can include stapling punching folding etc. The stacking operation can include a jogging operation. In some embodiments the execution manager is configured to execute the operations on the device based on the saved graphical representation and the values of the attributes. For example if the user selected a duplex mode and a stapling operation for the print job then the pages of the print job are printed in duplex mode i.e. two pages on one sheet of paper or media and the device staples thereafter the printed pages. Further the GUI can allow the user to have a mimic view or visualization of the final output before actual execution of the operations on the job. Here the final output can mimic a view of the sheets showing placement of pages on each sheet.

The display manager A B may display a GUI including multiple graphical format objects corresponding to one or more attributes of the device . In some embodiments the GUI also includes one or more objects shown as text corresponding to at least one attribute of the device . In some embodiments the graphical format objects can include but are not limited to at least one of a page selection a sheet mode and the one or more finishing operations. The sheet mode can be one of a simplex mode and a duplex mode. The user can select and or drag one or more graphical format objects and or the textual selection objects. In an exemplary embodiment the graphical format objects include but are not limited to pages sheets finishing operations etc.

At step a GUI is provided to the user by display manager on a display device of a first device such as the device or A B . The display device may alternatively be a touch sensitive display device . The display manager may display the GUI on the display device or .

In the exemplary method the user is allowed to manipulate the graphical format objects on the GUI for changing or setting one or more values of the attributes of the device for a particular job execution on the first device or any other suitable device. The job may be a print job for printing one or more pages on one or more media such as paper sheets. At step the user manipulates the graphical format objects by selecting and or dragging one or more of the graphical format objects of the GUI by any suitable method. In some embodiments the user may manipulate the graphical format objects by touching one or more graphical format objects and then moving or dragging the one or more graphical format objects on the GUI using his or her finger or any suitable pointing device such as a stylus using a mouse or voice commands. The user can manipulate the graphical format objects and or the textual selection objects thereby forming a graphical representation of the intended operations such as imposition or finishing operations that may be applied while executing a job such as a printing job on the device or alternatively on a networked another device. In some embodiments the GUI allows the user to manipulate the graphical format objects selectively for one of the pages of a job. The job can be a printing job that can be executed on the exemplary device or any other similar device. In alternate embodiments the GUI allows the user to selectively manipulate the graphical format objects for multiple pages of a job.

Next at step a graphical representation for the attributes is created based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects. In some embodiments the attribute processing manager creates the graphical representation for the attributes based on the manipulation of the graphical format objects. As the user manipulates the graphical format objects the display manager on the display device displays a graphical representation based on the manipulation to the user . The graphical representation can provide a mimic visualization or view to the user of a final printed output of the job.

Then at step one or more values of the attributes can be defined based on the graphical representation. In some embodiments the attribute processing manager defines the values of the attributes based on the graphical representation. Hence by moving the graphical format objects or icons or images the user can set the values for the attributes of the first device for a particular job and the user is not required to remember the exact values for a particular setting of an attribute. This feature can beneficially save time for the user and provide ease of use of the devices of the disclosed embodiments especially when selecting and executing attributes for large print jobs.

At step the graphical representation and the values of the attributes are saved at the device . In some embodiments the attribute processing manager saves the graphical representation and the values of the attributes at the device in a memory associated with the device . Further the attribute processing manager may selectively save the graphical representation and the one or more value for the attributes only for some of the pages of a job or a print job . Further the graphical representation may be saved as a queue or as combination of job attributes values using a pre defined format on the first device. Examples of the pre defined format may include such as but are not limited to a Xerox Print Interface XPIF format using Common Print Semantics Specification CPSS a Job Description Format JDF and a Digital Front End DFE internal job queue attribute value format.

At step the graphical representation is exported for use with another device. The another device is configured to recognize and execute the saved graphical representation. The saved graphical representation includes settings for the one or more attributes for execution of the one or more operations. The additional device can be any suitable device which is compatible with the device . Thereafter at step one or more operations are executed and performed on a print job that may be executed on the another device based on the exported graphical representation and or the one or more values of the attributes. Further the one or more operations can include but are not limited to operation s defining a placement of one or more pages on a number of sheets including selecting an orientation of the page and sequencing the one or more pages. Further the operation may include finishing operations stacking operations and one or more operations for defining at least one finishing location for the finishing operations. The finishing operations may be stapling punching folding etc. The stacking operation may be a jogging operation on the pages of the print job. In some embodiments the another device includes a second execution manager similar to the execution manager to execute the operations on the another device based on the saved graphical representation and the values of the attributes. For example if the user selects a duplex mode and stapling operation for the print job then the pages of the print job are printed in duplex mode i.e. two pages on one sheet of paper or media and then the printed pages can be stapled second or additional device.

The graphical format object pages represent one or more pages of a print job that need to be executed on the device . The graphical format object represents the media for printing. The graphical format object or a media allows the user to selectively modify an orientation of the media for execution of the print job. Further the graphical format object or the split along row object allows the user to place one or pages of the print job along the rows. The graphical format object or split along column object allows the user to place the pages of the print job along the columns for manipulating the attributes. The split along column object allows the user to split the media along rows graphically to create 1Up 2Up etc. imposition layouts.

As shown by step the user can drag and drop one or more pages of the print job using the graphical format object on the graphical format object corresponding to the media . Further at step the user can modify the orientation of the pages on the graphical format object for media from portrait to landscape orientation. As shown each page is dragged as landscape on the media . The user may also selectively modify an attribute of a print job between a duplex and a simplex mode by touching or selecting the media .

Further the GUI A includes a number of options in form of a tab . The tab may allow the user to move between various menus for example higher and lower menu levels or backwards and forwards menu levels within the GUI while selecting the values of the attributes on the device .

The computing system can include one or more processors such as a processor . The processor can be implemented using a general or special purpose processing engine such as for example a microprocessor microcontroller or other control logic. In this example the processor is connected to a data pathway e.g. buses Ethernet or other communication medium. Although only one processor is shown in certain embodiments the computing system may include more processors in an expanded or distributed design.

The computing system can also include a main memory preferably random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . The processor accepts instructions and data from the memory and performs various data processing functions of the system. These data processing functions may include but are not limited to providing graphical format objects via a graphical user interface creating a graphical representation for a plurality of attributes defining values of attributes based on selection of the graphical representation executing operation on the computing system based on graphical representation and values of attributes and so forth. The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit ALU that performs arithmetic and logical operations and a control unit that extracts instructions from the memory and decodes and executes them calling on the ALU when necessary. The main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor . The memory stores a variety of data received by the system and computed by the various data processing functions of the system . The data may include for example values of attributes graphical format objects graphical representations and so forth.

The computing system may likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the data pathway for storing static information and instructions for processor . Also the memory preferably contains an operating system which executes on the processor . The operating system performs basic tasks that include recognizing input sending output to output devices keeping track of files and directories and controlling various peripheral devices.

The computing system may also include information storage mechanism which may include for example a media drive and a removable storage interface . The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a CD or DVD drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive. A storage media may include for example a hard disk floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by and written to by media drive . As these examples illustrate storage media may include a computer readable storage medium having stored there in particular computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments information storage mechanism may include other similar instrumentalities for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into the computing system . Such instrumentalities may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface such as a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory module and memory slot and other removable storage units and the interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from removable the storage unit to the computing system .

The computing system can also include a communications interface that enables the computing system to access other computers and resources on a communication network. The communications interface can be used to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Examples of the communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet or other NIC card a communications port such as for example a USB port a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel may carry signals and may be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface a local or wide area network and other communications channels. What is important is that the various computers and peripherals can interact to perform various document services.

The computing system further includes input output devices such as a keyboard and a mouse that enables a user to enter data and instructions into the computing system a display device that enables the user to view the available information and a printer that enables the user to print any data for his reference. Alternatively input output devices may include a touch sensitive display that enables a user to enter data and instructions into the computing system as well as to view the available information.

In this document the terms computer program product and computer readable medium may be used generally to refer to media such as for example the memory the storage device the storage unit or signal s on the channel . These and other forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor for execution. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable computing system to perform features or functions of embodiments of the disclosed subject matter.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer readable medium and loaded into the computing system using for example removable storage drive the drive or the communications interface . The control logic in this example software instructions or computer program code when executed by processor causes processor to perform the functions of the disclosed subject matter as described herein.

An aspect of the present disclosure allows the user to selectively manipulate the graphical format objects for one or more pages of the print job for execution on a device such as a printing device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure allows the user to selectively save the graphical representation and one or more values of the attributes for one or more pages of the job or print job .

It will be understood that the managers and the databases referred to in the previous sections are not necessarily utilized together method or system of the embodiments. Rather these managers are merely exemplary of the various managers that may be implemented within a device imaging device or printing device and can be implemented in exemplary another devices and other devices as appropriate that can communicate via a network to the exemplary imaging and printing devices.

It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

