---

title: Motorized roller shade system with a sun angle sensor
abstract: Presented is a motorized roller shade system. The system includes a flexible shade material, a roller tube configured for windingly receiving the flexible shade material, a shade motor coupled to the roller tube, a motor controller in communication with the shade motor, and a sun angle sensor. The sun angle sensor is configured for determining the angle of the sun and transmitting the angle of the sun to the motor controller. The motor controller is configured for driving the shade motor to rotate the roller tube to wind or unwind the flexible shade material in response to the transmitted angle of the sun to limit sunlight penetration to a predetermined maximum distance into a room.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09447635&OS=09447635&RS=09447635
owner: CRESTRON ELECTRONICS, INC.
number: 09447635
owner_city: Rockleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140522
---
The present disclosure relates generally to roller shades and more particularly to a motorized roller shade with a sun angle sensor.

Typical motorized roller shades provide privacy glare control minimize heat gain and prevent damage to interior furnishings by minimizing the effects of ultra violet radiation from the sun. In order to realize these benefits roller shades are manually adjusted by the occupant to solve one or more of the above mentioned issues.

It is to be understood that both the general and detailed descriptions that follow are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention

According to one aspect the invention involves a motorized roller shade system. The system includes a flexible shade material a roller tube configured for windingly receiving the flexible shade material a shade motor coupled to the roller tube a motor controller in communication with the shade motor and a sun angle sensor. The sun angle sensor is configured for determining the angle of the sun and transmitting the angle of the sun to the motor controller. The motor controller is configured for driving the shade motor to rotate the roller tube to wind or unwind the flexible shade material in response to the transmitted angle of the sun to limit sunlight penetration through a window to a predetermined maximum distance into a room.

In one embodiment the roller shade system further includes a memory configured for storing a height of the window covered by the flexible shade material and a height of a window sill associated with the window.

In another embodiment the motor controller is further configured for driving the shade motor to rotate the roller tube to wind or unwind the flexible shade material in response to the stored height of the window and the stored height of the window sill associated with the window to limit sunlight penetration through the window to a predetermined maximum distance into the room.

In still another embodiment the motor controller includes a microcontroller a controller interface a memory and a motor driver circuit in communication with the motor.

In various embodiments the sun angle sensor is solar powered and the sun angle sensor transmits the angle of the sun to the motor controller through one of a wired connection and a wireless connection.

According to another aspect the invention involves a method of limiting the maximum distance sunlight penetrates through a window into a room. The method includes providing for the window a roller shade that includes a flexible shade material a motor a motor controller and a sun angle sensor. The method further includes storing a height of the window and a height of a window sill associated with the window. The method further includes determining by the sun angle sensor the angle of the sun transmitting the angle of the sun to the motor controller and driving the shade motor by the motor controller to wind or unwind the flexible shade material in response to the transmitted angle of the sun the stored height of the window and the stored height of a window sill to limit sunlight penetration through the window to a predetermined maximum distance into the room.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. Alterations and further modifications of the inventive features illustrated herein and additional applications of the principles of the inventions as illustrated herein which would occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure are to be considered within the scope of the invention.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to .

Disclosed is a motorized roller shade system that automatically adjusts the position of the shade to minimize UV penetration into a room and prevent glare on items such as television screens by specifying the maximum distance into a room from a window that direct sunlight may penetrate.

Referring to in one embodiment the shade system which is designed to be mounted in a window frame and cover window includes a roller shade a roller shade motor and a sun angle sensor generally . The roller shade includes a roller tube flexible shade material and a hembar . The motor is in wired communication with and controlled by a motor controller . The sensor is in wired or wireless communication with the motor controller . In one embodiment the sensor is an integrated solar angle sensor E910.86 from Elmos Inc. The sensor is capable of determining the angle of light incidence in both xz and yz planes with the z axis being perpendicular to the surface of the sensor the x axis being parallel to the surface sensor and parallel to the surface of a window sill and the y axis being parallel to the surface sensor and perpendicular to the surface of the window sill . In one embodiment the sensor is disposed on a surface of the window . In another embodiment the sensor is disposed on the window sill .

The motor controller controls drives the motor and includes a microcontroller microprocessor a controller interface a memory and a motor driver circuit which is in communication with the motor . The controller interface is in wired or wireless communication with a master controller which is capable of controlling one or more motor controllers . During installation of the roller shade system the height h of the top of the window above the floor and the height s of the window sill are stored in the memory . In the case of a window that extends to the floor i.e. no window sill height s 0.

In various embodiments the sensor which is in wired or wireless communication with the microcontroller includes at least one photovoltaic cell a microcontroller microprocessor and a wired or wireless communication interface . The sensor is removeably coupled to the window or disposed on a window sill in order to have an unobstructed view of the sun. If the sensor is in wired communication with the microcontroller the sensor receives power through from the motorized roller shade. If the sensor is in wireless communication with the microcontroller the sensor is battery powered and or solar powered.

The sensor determines the angle of the sun based on sunlight incident thereon and reports transmits the sun angle to the microcontroller . The microcontroller also retrieves height h and height s from memory . In response to receiving the sun angle and retrieving height h and height s the microcontroller instructs the motor via the motor driver circuit to move the roller shade up or down to allow sunlight to enter a predetermined user defined distance a into a room. Because the sensor detects actual light conditions there is no need to specify the location i.e. latitude and longitude of the building or whether there are any obstructions between the window and the sun. Furthermore the sensor also determines the intensity of the sun and thus eliminates the need for additional sensors to detect clouds and or shadows.

The disclosed roller shade system prevents furnishings artwork or other materials from being damaged by the sun s harmful ultraviolet UV rays. For example if a user knows that all the items in a particular room that could be damaged by Ultraviolet rays are a minimum of five feet away from the windows the disclosed roller shade system can be easily configured to allow direct sunlight to penetrate no more than five feet into the room.

Referring to in one embodiment in operation with a floor to ceiling window assume a user wants to position a shade so that sunlight penetrates into a room a maximum distance a of five feet. Next assume that the distance h from the top of a window employing the disclosed roller shade system to the floor is ten feet i.e. shade length . Further assume that the sensor determines that the angle theta of incidence of the sun rays is 50 degrees in the yz plane relative to the z axis. The distance b is the distance from the floor that the shade needs to be raised to allow sunlight to penetrate into the room a maximum of five feet

The distance b is determined using the equation Tan theta b a. For the current example b Tan 50 5 5.958 6 feet or 60 percent of the total shade length i.e. 10 feet . In other words the shade must be 60 percent open to allow the incident light rays to penetrate a distance of 5 feet into the room.

Referring to in another embodiment in operation with a standard sized window assume a user wants to position a shade so that sunlight penetrates into a room a maximum distance a of five feet. Next assume that the distance h from the top of a window employing the disclosed roller shade system to the floor is ten feet and that the height s of the window sill is two feet. Further assume that the sensor determines that the angle theta of incidence of the sun rays is 50 degrees in the yz plane relative to the z axis. In this example the relative position RP that the shade needs to be raised to allow sunlight to penetrate into the room a maximum of five feet is determined by the equation RP b h s 100.

The distance b is determined using the equation Tan theta b a. For the current example b Tan 50 5 5.958 6 feet. Using the above described equation RP 6 10 2 100 75 open. In other words the shade must be 75 percent open to allow the incident light rays to penetrate a distance of 5 feet into the room.

As mentioned above the sensor is capable of determining the angle of light incidence in both xz and yz planes with the z axis being perpendicular to the surface of the sensor the x axis being parallel to the surface sensor and parallel to the surface of the window sill and the y axis being parallel to the surface sensor and perpendicular to the surface of the window sill . Consequently the sensor can be used with drapery tracks vertical blinds venetian blinds or any other type of motorized window treatment. In the case of the sensor being used with drapes or vertical blinds a user can set a maximum horizontal width that direct sunlight covers rather than the maximum distance that direct sunlight may penetrate.

In another embodiment the sensor additionally includes a memory configured for storing the height h the height s and the maximum distance sunlight is allowed to penetrate into the room. After the sensor determines the angle of the sun the microcontroller microprocessor performs the calculations described above to determine the percentage open e.g. 0 closed 100 fully open 50 50 open the shade needs to be to limit the sunlight penetration into the room to the predetermined maximum distance. The sensor then transmits the percentage open to the shade motor which moves the flexible shade material to the appropriate position.

Variations modifications and other implementations of what is described herein may occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be defined exclusively by the preceding illustrative description.

