---

title: Railroad freight car loading or unloading
abstract: A rail-road intermodal freight system. In an embodiment, a plurality of L-cars are provided. In an embodiment, each L-car may be configured for support at its forward end on a preceding L-car, and at a rear base on a set of flanged rail wheels. In implementing the system, a freight yard is provided with rail components which are switchable to enable decoupling and a turn-in-place operation, wherein each care is lifted from the preceding L-car in the train, and the neck portion of the L-car lowered to the ground. When in the lowered position, downwardly extending legs on the over-the-road trailer enable an over-the-road tractor to attach the over-the-road trailer in conventional fashion, for removal of the over-the-road tailer from the L-car. Loading of an over-the-road trailer on the L-car takes place via a reverse process, wherein the trailer is backed up on to the L-car.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09096239&OS=09096239&RS=09096239
owner: 
number: 09096239
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140723
---
This application claims priority and is a divisional from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 679 882 filed Nov. 16 2012 which application is a continuation in part from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 105 897 filed May 12 2011 now abandoned which application claimed U.S. domestic priority and was a a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 777 278 filed on May 11 2010 now abandoned b a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 779 841 filed on Jul. 7 2010 now abandoned and c a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 832 054 filed on Jul. 7 2010 now abandoned . The disclosures of each of the aforementioned patent applications including their specification claims and drawing figures are hereby incorporated herein by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application relates to a system for rail road transfer of over the road shipping containers and to railroad track developments which facilitate such transfers.

In the freight shipping business it is well known that in many situations the transfer of highway trailers by rail car may save money and in many instances may save transit time from a point of origin to a final destination. However loading of highway capable freight trailers on to rail cars and the unloading of such trailers from rail cars is a rather labor intensive and time consuming activity. For example a switch engine is often used at a rail yard to position rail cars to a loading platform accessible to tractors for the trucks. As a result the use of rail road intermodal systems has largely been limited to rather long distance freight hauls. However in an ever more competitive shipping cost environment there remains a need for improvements and cost saving. More particularly on short or medium haul lengths say 200 to 400 miles where the use of rail systems might completely avoid the need for long haul drivers for large numbers of tractor trailer combinations use of a new rail to road intermodal system would be desirable. Thus it would be advantageous if novel cost effective methods were available along with novel apparatus for implementation of such methods for improving economics of rail road freight transfer.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual apparatus that may be constructed or used to practice the methods taught herein and to manufacture an L cars including features set forth herein. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the apparatus and methods taught herein and for the alternate configurations thereof and for a method for use of the apparatus. However various other elements for such L cars and methods of use thereof may be utilized within the teachings hereof and within the coverage of the claims set forth herein.

Unique designs for rail cars for use in rail road intermodal freight systems are set forth herein. Also methods for use of such devices are described herein. Many of the illustrations provided are directed at the most common trailer design seen in over the road applications in North America namely a semi trailer. By definition a semi trailer is a trailer without a front axle. In semi trailers a large proportion of the weight in the semi trailer is supported by an over the road tractor. Semi trailers are normally equipped with landing gear namely legs which can be lowered to support the semi trailer when it is detached from the road tractor. In many parts of the world a road tractor coupled to a semi trailer is known as a semi trailer truck or more commonly simply as a semi . However it should be understood that the basic L car system described herein may be applied to other types of trailers including those having a front axle and attachment tongue and hitch such as an A frame mount seen in and thus the intermodal system design described herein should not be limited to semi trailers per se but should be understood to be useful in the quick loading and unloading of many over the road trailer designs.

Attention is directed to where a rail car for carriage of over the road trailers is depicted. As seen in a set of rail cars has been pulled on to a siding by engine . Further see wherein rail car is shown carrying an over the road semi trailer all as just discussed above. As further detailed in the rail car includes a wheel set having at least one axle connected to a pair of flanged rail wheels and a suspension package such as conventional springs. A frame is provided wherein the frame is generally L shaped with a front end and a rear end . The frame further includes a deck for support of a trailer or . The deck may extend between a first end and a second end . In an embodiment a deck may be adapted to slope downward toward the second end during rail transit operation. In an embodiment a generally vertically extending bumper may be located at or adjacent the second end of the deck . A rear base may be provided located rearward of the bumper . In an embodiment a rear base may have a a lower side resting on and suspended by the suspension package and b and an upper side . Further in an embodiment a conventional railroad front coupler and rear coupler may be provided. In various embodiments a lock may be provided in order to securing a trailer or to the rail car . As may be further understood with reference to and as described elsewhere herein in an embodiment a lock may include a fifth wheel sliding plate with spring loaded clamping jaws that act on a king pin located at an upper mating plate on semi trailer all of which are adapted to lock the king pin to secure the semi trailer . Tractor may be similarly equipped with fifth wheel type sliding plate and clamping jaws of conventional manner.

In various embodiments a rail car may be provided with one or more support members . Such support members may extend forward of the frame with sufficient length LS sufficient to reach an upper side of a rear base of a next forward rail car in a set of N rail cars wherein N is a positive integer greater than one. As noted in at a first car the support members may rest on a connecting dolly which provides for attachment to engine . In an embodiment two support members may be provided.

As also seen in a deck may include a left track portion L and a right track portion R. The left L and right R track portions are sized and shaped for support of a trailer or having conventional dual left wheels and dual right wheels.

As also may be appreciated from the left track portion L has a first inner edge and the right track portion has a second inner edge . The first inner edge and the second inner edge define a gap between the left track portion L and the right track portion R. In some embodiments a rail car may be further configured for transport of a semi trailer having landing gear. In such cases the first inner edge further comprises a first outwardly protruding cutout a distance D forward from the bumper that defines a narrowed length L of the left track portion L. Also the second inner edge further comprises a second outwardly protruding cutout a distance D forward from the bumper that defines a narrowed length L of the right track portion R. The first outwardly protruding cutout and the second outwardly protruding cutout may be sized and shaped to provide sufficient width W for passage through said deck of landing gear of a selected semi trailer. In an embodiment the rail car may be further provided with a first deck insert corresponding to the size and shape of the first outwardly protruding cutout and a second deck insert corresponding to the size and shape of said second outwardly protruding cutout . In an embodiment a first deck insert may be hinged to the left track portion not shown but similar to below and the said second deck insert may be hinged at hinge to the right track portion R.

Turning now to and components for an apparatus to support of a pair flanged rail wheels when the pair of flanged rail wheels are abruptly turned from first and second straight rails are illustrated. As noted in the rail car may be configured for transport over a conventional pair of first and second rails. However in order to turn a rail car abruptly for off load and on load of trailers or semi trailers I have developed a concept that may be useful. In particular as shown in a curved rail section may be provided. Such a curved rail section may be sized and shaped to curve sharply from a first straight rail . The curved rail section further includes a plurality of pin accepting apertures defined by inner edge portions . A plurality of pins is provided as noted in . A base plate may be provided having a plurality of pin locating apertures therein. The plurality of pin accepting apertures are adapted for accepting pins therethrough to secure the curved rail section at the pin locating apertures in the base plate .

In an embodiment the apparatus may further include a plurality of rail forming tubular cylinders . The rail forming tubular cylinders have pin accepting apertures . The rail forming tubular cylinders are sized and shaped for rolling support of a flanged rail wheel by placement of a plurality of rail forming tubular cylinders above the base plate wherein a flat surface of a tubular cylinder vertically supports a flanged rail wheel . A plurality of pin accepting apertures are adapted for accepting pins therethrough to secure the rail forming tubular cylinders at suitable pin locating apertures in the base plate . In an embodiment the rail forming tubular cylinders may be provided with the tubular cylindrical shape in a vertical orientation so that the tubular cylinder structure vertically supports flanged wheels on intermodal freight rail cars.

Now that components for various embodiments of an exemplary rail car and curved track portions and rail discs have been described various components for methods of use of the same for rapid loading and unloading of trailers or from rail cars will be described. First a plurality of rail cars as described herein may be provided. Then a plurality of over the road trailers either semi trailers or trailers all as noted above are provided. Then a suitable rail siding must be provided. As noted in at rail siding there must be space for storage for the plurality of rail cars when the plurality of rail cars are turned to a spaced apart angled configuration by an angle alpha each rail car spaced apart from adjacent rail cars. Further the storage space should be accessible as a roadway by tractors . As seen in a lift may be provided. Lift may be of conventional fashion as used for lifting containers however lifting requirements in most instances may be considerably less so energy savings may be possible by using lifting mechanism such as a wheeled lifting device more closely matched with actual loads. In any event lift is used to lift at least one end of each of the rail cars one after the other. To start a first N 1 rail car is lifted at a front end to turn the rail car and place the rail car at a selected angle alpha away from a track and . Then the front end of the rail car is lowered to the ground so that the deck of the rail car is accessible to a tractor . Then the trailer or is removed from the rail car using the tractor .

In an embodiment the method may be used for over the road trailers and are of the semi trailer type having extended landing gear . In such cases the method may further release the lock before lowering the front end of the rail car to the surface . The method may be reversed for loading a semi trailer on to a rail car using a tractor . In the case of loading of a semi trailer then the landing gear is lowered before unhooking the tractor and the landing gear may remain in a lowered configuration during rail transport. The semi trailer may be locked in place on the rail car at time of lifting of the rail car to return it to the track or may be performed earlier for example by use of a forklift not shown to temporarily lift the rail car. In any event the rail car lock is locked to the mating plate and king pin on the trailer . Each rail car is in turn lifted and turned to return each rail car in line with track and direction.

In an embodiment the support members may rest on the upper side of the rear base of the rail car . In an embodiment the curved rail section and rail forming discs may be utilized all in the manner set forth above to prepare temporary track for abrupt turning of a rail car by setting the curved rail section and setting a plurality of rail forming discs in spaced apart fashion to provide an abrupt angle rail direction change spaced apart at proper distance depending on rail width utilized on the rail line to support said wheel set of said rail car.

In further details for an embodiment of a rail car for use in transport of over the road trailers are shown. Here the pick up of an over the road trailer by a tractor is shown with the rail car in a lowered trailer pickup position. In an embodiment over the road trailers may utilize a locking mechanism in the form of a conventional king pin and steel mating plate for connection to a fifth wheel plate and associated clamping jaws on an over the road tractor. The clamping jaws snap in place around the king pin which includes a flanged bottom in conventional fashion to insure that the king pin and thus the trailer cannot bounce out of the clamping jaws for example when rough roads are encountered. Thus in an embodiment a rail car may be provided with a steel mating plate with clamping jaws to lock the over the road trailer in securely in place during rail transport. In a method of use the clamping jaws on the steel mating plate on the L car may be unlocked once the train reaches the siding and before the front of the L car is picked up and turned. Thus when the L car is turned for example as is shown in the landing gear will support the semi trailer in position ready for accepting a tractor for hookup.

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for novel L car designs and for methods of their use in rail road intermodal freight systems. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface at adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various components are described which may be employed alternatively yet be included in some designs or components for use in a particular situation. Accordingly the method s described herein may be utilized in whole or in part in various discrete operations in a manner that is most helpful in a particular circumstance. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such alternatives are necessarily order dependent or that use of various components is necessarily in the alternative. Also the reader will note that the phrase in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

