---

title: N-phase signal transition alignment
abstract: System, methods and apparatus are described that facilitate transmission of data, particularly between two devices within an electronic apparatus. Information is transmitted in N-phase polarity encoded symbols. Drivers may be adapted or configured to align state transitions on two or more connectors in order to minimize a transition period between consecutive symbols. The drivers may include circuits that advance or delay certain transitions. The drivers may include pre-emphasis circuits that operate to drive the state of a connector for a portion of the transition period, even when the connector is transitioned to an undriven state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276731&OS=09276731&RS=09276731
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09276731
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140806
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 863 695 filed Aug. 8 2013 the entire content of which being incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to high speed data communications interfaces and more particularly signal conditioning in multi wire multi phase data communication links.

Manufacturers of mobile devices such as cellular phones may obtain components of the mobile devices from various sources including different manufacturers. For example an application processor in a cellular phone may be obtained from a first manufacturer while the display for the cellular phone may be obtained from a second manufacturer. The application processor and a display or other device may be interconnected using a standards based or proprietary physical interface. For example a display may provide an interface that conforms to the Display System Interface DSI standard specified by the Mobile Industry Processor Interface Alliance MIPI .

In a multi wire interface the maximum speed of the communication link and the ability of a clock data recovery CDR circuit to recover clock information may be limited by the maximum time variation related to transitions of signals transmitted on the communication link. In a multi wire interface transitions on different wires may exhibit different variations of signal transition times which can cause the outputs of receivers in a receiving device to change at different times with respect to a data or symbol boundary. Large transition time differences in multi wire signals often requires the implementation of a delay element in the CDR circuit where the delay element has a minimum delay at least as long as the difference between the min and max receiver transition events. The maximum time of this delay element can restrict the throughput on the communication link by significantly limiting the period of the transmission clock.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems methods and apparatus that enable improved transmission rates on physical interfaces between devices within an apparatus. The apparatus may include a mobile terminal having multiple Integrated Circuit IC devices which may be collocated in an electronic apparatus and communicatively coupled through one or more data links.

In an aspect of the disclosure a data transfer method includes determining differences between each pair of consecutive symbols in a plurality of symbols to be transmitted on three or more connectors estimating a duration of a transition interval at a symbol boundary between the pair of consecutive symbols based on the differences and modifying operation of one or more drivers of the three or more connectors to reduce the duration of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed a threshold period. The differences between each pair of consecutive symbols may relate to signaling states of the three or more connectors. Each symbol may define one of at least three signaling states for each of the three or more connectors.

In another aspect modifying operation of the one or more drivers may cause temporal alignment of two or more outputs of state transition detection circuits in a receiver. The state transition detection circuits may be configured to compare signaling states of different pairs of the three or more connectors. Causing temporal alignment may include causing transitions to occur within a time period that is less than the threshold period.

In another aspect modifying the operation of the one or more drivers includes configuring one or more delays to cause the driver to initiate a state transition on a first connector before a corresponding state transition is initiated on a second connector.

In another aspect modifying the operation of the one or more drivers includes configuring one or more delays to cause the driver to initiate a state transition on a first connector after a corresponding state transition is initiated on a second connector.

In another aspect modifying the operation of the one or more drivers includes configuring one or more delays to cause the driver to delay or advance initiation of a state transition on a first connector with respect to initiation of a corresponding state transition on a second connector.

In another aspect modifying the operation of the one or more drivers includes delaying or advancing an initiation of a state transition on at least one connector when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed the threshold period and refraining from delaying or advancing state transitions on the three or more connectors when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to be less than the threshold period.

In another aspect modifying the operation of the one or more drivers includes actively driving one connector during at least a portion of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed the threshold period and refraining from driving the one connector while a second symbol of the pair of consecutive symbols is transmitted when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to be less than the threshold period.

In another aspect estimating the duration of the transition interval includes determining a signaling state transition time for each of the three or more connectors relative to the symbol boundary and estimating delays between the symbol boundary and transitions in outputs of each of a plurality of differential receivers at a receiver. Each of the plurality of differential receivers may be coupled to a different pair of the three or more connectors.

In another aspect the three or more connectors may include at least three wires and at least one wire may be in an undriven state during transmission of each symbol.

In an aspect of the disclosure an apparatus includes means for determining differences between each pair of consecutive symbols in a plurality of symbols to be transmitted on three or more connectors means for estimating a duration of a transition interval at a symbol boundary between the pair of consecutive symbols based on the differences and means for modifying operation of one or more drivers of the three or more connectors to reduce the duration of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed a threshold period. The differences between each pair of consecutive symbols may relate to signaling states of the three or more connectors. Each symbol may define one of at least three signaling states for each of the three or more connectors.

In an aspect of the disclosure an apparatus includes a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling two devices in a terminal and a processing circuit. The processing circuit may be configured to determine differences between each pair of consecutive symbols in a plurality of symbols to be transmitted on three or more connectors estimate a duration of a transition interval at a symbol boundary between the pair of consecutive symbols based on the differences and modify operation of one or more drivers of the three or more connectors to reduce the duration of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed a threshold period. The differences may relate to signaling states of the three or more connectors. Each symbol may define one of at least three signaling states for each of the three or more connectors.

In an aspect of the disclosure processor readable storage medium has one or more instructions. The one or more instructions may be executed by at least one processing circuit. The one or more instructions may cause the at least one processing circuit to determine differences between each pair of consecutive symbols in a plurality of symbols to be transmitted on three or more connectors estimate a duration of a transition interval at a symbol boundary between the pair of consecutive symbols based on the differences and modify operation of one or more drivers of the three or more connectors to reduce the duration of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed a threshold period. The differences between each pair of consecutive symbols may relate to signaling states of the three or more connectors. Each symbol may define one of at least three signaling states for each of the three or more connectors.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Certain aspects of the invention may be applicable to communications links deployed between electronic devices that may include subcomponents of an apparatus such as a telephone a mobile computing device an appliance automobile electronics avionics systems etc. depicts a simplified example of an apparatus that employs a communication link between IC devices. The apparatus may include a communications transceiver operably coupled to a processing circuit . In one example the apparatus may include a wireless communication device that communicates through a radio frequency RF transceiver with a radio access network RAN a core access network the Internet and or another network. The processing circuit may include an application specific IC ASIC and or one or more other IC devices. The ASIC may include one or more processing devices logic circuits and so on. The processing circuit may include and or be coupled to processor readable storage such as a memory that may maintain instructions that may be executed by a processor of the processing circuit and data that may be manipulated by the processing circuit . Certain functions of the processing circuit may be controlled by one or more of an operating system and an application programming interface API layer that supports and enables execution of software modules residing in storage media such as the memory device . The memory device may include read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory device that can be used in processing systems and computing platforms. The processing circuit may include or access a local database that can maintain operational parameters and other information used to configure and operate the apparatus . The local database may be implemented using one or more of a database module flash memory magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The processing circuit may also be operably coupled to external devices such as an antenna a display operator controls such as a keypad a button rocker or slider switch and or other components.

The communication link may include multiple channels and . One or more channel may be bidirectional and may operate in a half duplex mode and or in a full duplex mode. One or more channels and or may be unidirectional. The communication link may be asymmetrical providing higher bandwidth in one direction. In one example a first communications channel may be referred to as a forward link while a second communications channel may be referred to as a reverse link . The first IC device may be designated as a host system or a transmitter while the second IC device may be designated as a client system or a receiver even if both IC devices and are configured to transmit and receive on the communications link . In one example the forward link may operate at a higher data rate when communicating data from a first IC device to a second IC device while the reverse link may operate at a lower data rate when communicating data from the second IC device to the first IC device .

The IC devices and may each include a processor which may be provided in a processing circuit computing circuit or other circuit. In one example the first IC device may be adapted to perform core functions of the apparatus including maintaining wireless communications through a wireless transceiver and an antenna while the second IC device may be configured to support a user interface that manages or operates a display controller and may control operations of a camera or video input device using a camera controller . Other features supported by one or more of the IC devices and may include a keyboard a voice recognition component global positioning systems biometric recognition systems motion sensors and other input or output devices. The display controller may include circuits and software drivers that support displays such as a liquid crystal display LCD panel touch screen display indicators and so on. The storage media and may include transitory and or non transitory storage devices adapted to maintain instructions and data used by respective processors and and or other components of the IC devices and . Communication between each processor and its corresponding storage media and and other modules and circuits may be facilitated by one or more bus and respectively.

The reverse link may be operated in the same manner as the forward link and the forward link and reverse link may be capable of transmitting at comparable speeds or at different speeds where speed may be expressed as a data rate or data transfer rate and or a transmitter clocking rate. The forward and reverse data rates may be substantially the same or may differ by orders of magnitude depending on the application. In some applications a single bidirectional link may support communications between the first IC device and the second IC device . The forward link and or reverse link may be configurable to operate in a bidirectional mode when for example the forward and reverse links and share the same physical connections and operate in a half duplex manner. In one example the communication link may be operated to communicate data control command and other information between the first IC device and the second IC device in accordance with an industry or other standard.

Industry standards may be application specific. In one example the MIPI standard defines physical layer interfaces including a synchronous interface specification D PHY between an application processor IC device and an IC device that supports the camera or display in a mobile device. The D PHY specification governs the operational characteristics of products that comply with MIPI specifications for mobile devices. A D PHY interface may support data transfers using a flexible low cost high speed serial interface that interconnects between components and within a mobile device. These interfaces may include complimentary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS parallel busses providing relatively low bit rates with slow edges to avoid electromagnetic interference EMI issues.

The communication link of may be implemented as a wired bus that includes a plurality of signal wires denoted as M wires . The M wires may be configured to carry N phase encoded data in a high speed digital interface such as in a display interface. The M wires may facilitate N phase polarity encoding on one or more of the channels and or . The physical layer drivers and may be configured or adapted to generate N phase polarity encoded data symbols for transmission on the communication link and or to decode N phase polarity encoded data symbols received from the communication link . The use of N phase polarity encoding provides high speed data transfer and may consume half or less of the power of other interfaces because for example fewer drivers are active in N phase polarity encoded data links .

N phase polarity encoding devices and or can typically encode multiple bits per transition on the communication link . In one example a combination of 3 phase encoding and polarity encoding may be used to support a wide video graphics array WVGA 80 frames per second LCD driver IC without a frame buffer delivering pixel data at 810 Mbps for display refresh.

Signaling states defined for each of the M wires in an M wire N phase polarity encoding scheme may include an undriven state a positively driven state and a negatively driven state. In the 3 wire 3 phase polarity encoding scheme the positively driven state and the negatively driven state may be obtained by providing a voltage differential between two of the signal wires and or and or by driving a current through two of the signal wires and or connected in series such that the current flows in different directions in the two signal wires and or . In one example the undriven state may be realized by placing an output of a driver of a signal wire or in a high impedance mode. In another example the undriven state may be obtained on a signal wire or by passively or actively causing an undriven signal wire or to assume a voltage level that lies substantially halfway between positive and negative voltage levels provided on driven signal wires and or . Typically no significant current flows through an undriven signal wire or . Signaling states defined for a 3 wire 3 phase polarity encoding scheme may be denoted using the three signaling states 1 0 1 which may represent voltage or current states. In one example the three states 1 0 1 may signify the three voltage levels V 0 V. In another example the three states 1 0 1 may signify the three voltage levels V V 2 0. In another example the three states 1 0 1 may signify currents of I 0 I.

A 3 wire 3 phase polarity encoder may employ a set of drivers to control the signaling state of connectors and . The drivers may be implemented as unit level current mode or voltage mode drivers. Each driver may receive a set of signals or that determines the signaling state of corresponding connector or . In the example depicted each of the drivers receives a pair of signals or that defines four states for the corresponding connector or . In another example each driver may receive a set of three signals defining 8 states for the corresponding connector or

For each transmitted symbol interval in an M wire N phase polarity encoding scheme at least one signal wire or is in the undriven state 0 signaling state while the number of positively driven 1 signaling state signal wires or is equal to the number of negatively driven 1 signaling state signal wires or such that the sum of current flowing to the receiver is zero. At each symbol transition between the previously transmitted symbol and a next transmitted symbol the signaling state of at least one signal wire or changes. When the signaling state of at least one signal wire and or changes between each pair of consecutive symbols a receiver can reliably generate a receive clock based on the transitions.

In operation a mapper may receive and map input data to a set of symbols . In the depicted 3 wire 3 phase example the set of symbols includes seven 3 bit symbols and a 16 bit word of the input data may be encoded in each set of symbols. Each bit of a 3 bit symbol defines the state of one of the signal wires and for one symbol interval. The sequence of symbols may be serialized using parallel to serial converters that provide a timed sequence of symbols each symbol defining the signaling state of the three wires and . The sequence of symbols is typically timed using a transmission clock to delineate symbol intervals whereby a single symbol is transmitted in each symbol interval. A 3 wire phase encoder receives the sequence of 7 symbols produced by the mapper one symbol at a time and computes the state of each signal wire and for each symbol interval. The 3 wire encoder selects the states of the signal wires and based on the current input symbol and the previous states of signal wires and

The use of M wire N phase encoding permits a number of bits to be encoded in a plurality of symbols. A non integer number of data bits may be encoded in each symbol. In the example of a 3 wire 3 phase system there are 3 available combinations of 2 wires that may be driven simultaneously and 2 possible combinations of polarity on the pair of wires that is driven yielding 6 possible states. The signaling state of the signal wires and changes at each transition between symbols and accordingly 5 of the 6 states are available at every transition. In other words the state of at least one wire changes at each transition to permit a receiver to generate a reliable receive clock and given a current signaling state there are five possible signaling states available at each transition. With 5 states log 5 2.32 bits may be encoded per symbol. Accordingly a mapper may accept a 16 bit word and convert it to 7 symbols because 7 symbols carrying 2.32 bits per symbol can encode 16.24 bits. In other words a combination of seven symbols that encode five states has 5 78 125 permutations. Accordingly the 7 symbols may be used to encode the 2 65 536 permutations of 16 binary bits.

Information may be encoded in the direction of rotation at each phase transition and the 3 phase signal may change direction for each signaling state. Direction of rotation may be determined by considering which wires and or are in the 0 state e.g. the undriven state before and after a phase transition because the undriven wire and or changes at every signaling state in a rotating three phase signal regardless of the direction of rotation.

The encoding scheme may also encode information in the polarity of the two of the conductors and that are actively driven. At any time in a 3 wire implementation exactly two of the conductors are driven with currents in opposite directions and or with a voltage differential. In a simple implementation data may be encoded using two bit values where one bit is encoded in the direction of phase transitions and the second bit is encoded in the polarity of the current state.

The timing chart illustrates data encoding using both phase rotation direction and polarity. The curves and relate to signals carried on three wires and respectively for multiple phase states. Initially the phase transitions are in a clockwise direction and the most significant bit is set to binary 1 until the rotation of phase transitions switches at a time to a counterclockwise direction as represented by a binary 0 of the most significant bit. The least significant bit reflects the polarity of the signal in each state.

In some instances the encoding scheme may encode information in changes in the polarity of the two actively driven conductors and or . In one example a bit having a value of 1 may be encoded as a change in polarity between two symbol intervals while a bit having a value of 0 may be encoded as no change in polarity between the two symbol intervals. A decoder may be configured to decode data at the boundaries between symbols by detecting changes in direction of rotation and changes in polarity. If data is encoded in changes in polarity between two symbol intervals in the example of the depicted sequence of encoded values can be replaced by the sequence 11 10 10 11 10 01 01 01 01 01 01 01.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein one bit of data may be encoded in the rotation or phase change in a 3 wire 3 phase encoding system and an additional bit may be encoded in the polarity of the two driven wires or in a change in polarity of the driven wires compared to the polarity used in the previous wire state. Additional information may be encoded in each transition of a 3 wire 3 phase encoding system by allowing transition to any of the possible states from a current state. Given 3 rotational phases and two polarities for each phase 6 states are available in a 3 wire 3 phase encoding system. Accordingly 5 states are available for transition from any current state. Accordingly there may be log 5 2.32 bits encoded per symbol transition which allows the mapper to accept a 16 bit word and encode it in 7 symbols.

N Phase data transfer may use more than three wires provided in a communication medium such as a bus. The use of additional signal wires that can be driven simultaneously provides more combinations of states and polarities and allows more bits of data to be encoded at each transition between states. This can significantly improve throughput of the system and reduce the power consumption over approaches that use multiple differential pairs to transmit data bits while providing increased bandwidth.

In one example an encoder may transmit symbols using 6 wires with 2 pairs of wires driven for each state. The 6 wires may be labeled A through F such that in one state wires A and F are driven positive wires B and E negative and C and D are undriven or carry no current . For six wires there may be 

Of the 4 wires driven the possible combinations of two wires driven positive and the other two must be negative . The combinations of polarity may include 

Accordingly the total number of different states may be calculated as 15 6 90. To guarantee a transition between symbols 89 states are available from any current state and the number of bits that may be encoded in each symbol may be calculated as log 89 6.47 bits per symbol. In this example a 32 bit word can be encoded by the mapper into 5 symbols given that 5 6.47 32.35 bits.

The general equation for the number of combinations of wires that can be driven for a bus of any size as a function of the number of wires in the bus and number of wires simultaneously driven 

In operation the wire state decoder may extract a sequence of symbols from signals received on wires and . The symbols are decoded based on signaling states that may be represented as a combination of phase rotation and polarity or changes in polarity of the signals received on wires and as disclosed herein. The wire state decoder may include a CDR which extracts a clock that can be used to reliably capture symbols from the wires and . The CDR may be configured to generate the clock based on the occurrence of a transition on least one of the wires and or at each boundary between consecutive symbol intervals. The CDR may delay an edge of the clock to allow time for all wires and to stabilize and to thereby ensure that the current symbol can be reliably captured for decoding purposes.

The delay used by the CDR may be configured to allow a period of time sufficient to mask the effect of multiple edges at the same symbol boundary where the multiple edges are generated at different times by different ones of the differential receivers . These multiple edges can arise when certain state transitions cause different differential receivers to produce edges that may be separated in time with respect to one another. The CDR may include a delay element that delays response to a first occurring edge at a symbol boundary until a time when all possible edges have occurred. Variations in the performance of components of the CDR may be expected to affect the delays between multiple edges. These variations in performance of components in the CDR may be accommodated by configuring a delay for the CDR that accounts for worst case conditions. The variations in performance may be caused by changes in power voltage and thermal PVT conditions for example. The duration of the delay may affect the performance of the communications link and may limit the maximum clock frequency that can be used in the communications link. If the configured delay is too short then multiple clock pulses may be created for a single symbol which may cause loss of synchronization between transmitter and receiver. If the delay is too long symbol times may overlap thereby causing the clock recovery circuit to malfunction or generate a single pulse for two symbol intervals.

Certain signaling state transitions may be detectable by a single differential receiver or while other signaling state transitions may be detected by two or more of the differential receivers and or . In one example the signaling states or relative states of two wires may be unchanged after a symbol transition and the output of a corresponding differential receiver or may also be unchanged after the symbol transition. In another example both wires in a pair of wires and or may be in the same first state in a first time interval and both wires may be in a same second state in a second time interval such that the output of a corresponding differential receiver or may be unchanged after the phase transition. Accordingly a clock generation circuit may include signaling state change detect circuits and logic that monitor the outputs of all differential receivers and in order to determine when a signaling state transition has occurred. The clock generation circuit may generate a receive clock based on detected signaling state transitions.

Changes in signaling states on different wires and or may occur or be detected at different times. The timing of detection of the signaling state changes may vary according to the type of signaling state change that has occurred. The result of this variability is illustrated in the simplified timing diagram provided in . Markers and representing the outputs of the signaling state change detection circuit and or differential receivers and are assigned different heights for clarity of illustration only. The relative heights of markers and have no specific relationship to voltage or current levels polarity or weighting values used for clock generation or data decoding. The timing chart illustrates the effect of timing of transitions associated with symbols transmitted on the three wires and . In the timing chart transitions between some symbols may result in variable capture windows and or collectively the symbol capture windows during which symbols may be reliably captured. The number of signaling state changes detected and their relative timing can result in jitter on the clock signal .

Variability in the sizes of the symbol windows and associated jitter may be caused in part by the electrical characteristics of the wires and as illustrated in the simple example depicted in . Transition times may be affected by variability in signal rise or fall times and or variability in detection circuits caused by manufacturing process tolerances variations and stability of voltage and current sources and operating temperature. Large variability in transition times may be attributable to the existence of different voltage or current levels in 3 phase signaling. A simplified voltage level example is depicted in which illustrates transition times in a single wire or . A first symbol Sym may be transmitted in a symbol interval that ends at time a second symbol Sym may be transmitted in a symbol interval that ends at time and a third symbol Sym may be transmitted in a symbol interval that ends at time when transmission of a fourth symbol Sym begins. The transition from a state determined by the first symbol to the state corresponding to the second symbol may be detected after a first delay attributable to the time taken for voltage in the wire or to reach a threshold voltage and or . The threshold voltages may be used to determine the state of the wire or . The transition from a state determined by the second symbol to the state for the third symbol may be detected after a second delay attributable to the time taken for voltage in the wire or to reach one of the threshold voltages and or . The transition from a state determined by the third symbol to the state for the fourth symbol may be detected after a third delay attributable to the time taken for voltage in the wire or to reach a threshold voltage and or .

As depicted the third delay may be shorter than the first delay and the second delay may be the longest delay. The second delay may be the longest delay because state 0 is an undriven state and the voltage in the wire or may drift slowly towards the threshold whereas the first delay and the second delay are associated with transitions in which the wire or is actively pulled to the 1 and 1 states respectively.

The maximum speed of the communication link configured for N Phase encoding may be limited by the duration of the signal transition region compared to the received signal eye opening . The minimum period for the symbol interval may be constrained by tightened design margins associated with the CDR circuit in the decoder illustrated in or in the clock generation circuit of for example. Different signaling state transitions may be associated with different variations in signal transition times corresponding to two or more wires and or thereby causing the outputs of the differential receivers and in the receiving device to change at different times and or rates with respect to the symbol boundary where the inputs to the differential receivers and begin to change. The large potential differences in received signal transition times between the outputs of multiple differential receivers and in the receiving device typically requires the implementation of a delay element in the CDR circuit . The delay element may have a minimum delay period that exceeds the transition region time . In one example a delay element may be provided in one or more of the state change detect circuit and or the clock generation circuit shown in . The maximum delay time provided by this delay element may not extend beyond the closing edge of the eye opening . In some instances the maximum delay time provided by the delay element may not extend beyond the commencement of the next symbol interval at time . At faster data rates the eye opening can become small in comparison to the symbol interval and the effect of symbol transition variability may be determinative of the maximum symbol transmission rate.

The duration of any single transition is unlikely to span the full range of the signal transition region t since it is unlikely that a minimum possible signal transition time and a maximum possible transition time occurs during a single symbol transition. In one example the signal transition region may be bounded by the time of the first zero crossing detected at the output of a differential receiver or and the time of the last zero crossing detected at the output of a differential receiver or for all possible symbol transitions. The transition times observed at the outputs of the differential receiver and may correspond to the times taken for the connectors and or wires or to reach a next state after the input to a driver of the connector and or wire or . The longest possible transition time may be determined based on the characteristics of the signal wire and or connector or and the type of state transition involved. In one example the longest possible transition time may be determined by the rise or fall time of one or more signals. Rise and fall times may be determined by the nature and voltage levels of the original and or the final states. Typically the longest possible transition time corresponds to a transition between an actively driven state and an undriven state.

A high value of tfor the transition region can result in increased design difficulty associated with the CDR circuit or clock generation circuit . For example the clock generation circuit may employ a delay element or timer that is triggered by the first zero crossing of the signals output by three differential receivers and . The state of the outputs of all three differential receivers and may not be safely sampled until all of the differential receivers and have reached their final state which may be defined by the eye opening . Accordingly the timer may preferably expire shortly after the end of the transition region at which time clock generation circuit may output a clock edge that is used to sample the outputs of the three differential receivers and

In some devices delay elements in the CDR circuit can be afflicted by variations in manufacturing process circuit supply voltage and die temperature PVT variation and may generate delays that vary significantly. In such systems the nominal operating condition of the CDR circuit is generally set by design to generate a clock edge somewhere in the middle of the eye opening in order to ensure that a clock edge occurs after the end of the transition region and prior to the commencement of the transition region to the next symbol even under worst case PVT effects. Difficulty can arise in designing a CDR circuit that guarantees a clock edge within the eye opening when the transition region is large compared to the eye opening . For example a typical delay element may produce a delay value that changes by a factor of 2 over all PVT conditions and the eye opening must be larger than the transition region in order that a non adjustable delay value can be chosen.

In some instances the duration of the transition region may be calculated based on the maximum timing between a change in input to one or more drivers of a transmitting circuit see and corresponding transitions observed or expected at the outputs of differential receivers in a receiver see . In other instances a modified transition region may be determined at the outputs of the receivers as the maximum difference between the time of a first transition at the output of one of the receivers and the time of the last transition at the output of the other receivers for all symbol transitions.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein an encoder may be adapted to minimize the proportion of the symbol interval occupied by the transition region and maximize the proportion of the symbol interval occupied by the eye opening . In one example the timing of signaling state transitions on one or more signal wires and or see may be modified at or prior to the occurrence of a symbol boundary for certain symbol transitions. In an encoder for example prior knowledge of the specific N Phase symbol states or a priori state knowledge in consecutive symbols may be used to predict whether the timing of one or more N Phase driver outputs should be adjusted at the symbol boundary between the consecutive symbols. The manner of adjustment may also be determined based on the a priori state knowledge. The adjustments may affect the output of one or more of the drivers and adjustments may be made on a symbol by symbol basis. The adjustments may include advancing or delaying certain driver output signal transitions. In some instances the adjustments may include selective addition of pre emphasis to certain driver outputs at certain types of symbol transitions based on prior knowledge of which transition will occur a priori transition knowledge . As a result edges output from the differential receivers and in the receiving device may be more precisely aligned with respect to time.

The a priori transition knowledge may include information that characterizes the response of connectors to state transitions. Such information may be obtained from models of the connectors drivers and receivers and by simulating the response of the communications links to various types of transitions using the models. In some instances the a priori transition knowledge may include empirical information obtained from tests preformed on physical devices and communication links. The a priori transition knowledge may be calibrated based on differences between simulated and measured results. The a priori transition knowledge may include empirical information provided by a receiver during system operation.

According to certain aspects smaller variations between transition times on the signal wires and and or at the outputs of the differential receivers and may provide significantly greater design margins when the proportion of the symbol interval occupied by the transition region is minimized. In one example a CDR circuit may benefit from larger timing tolerances afforded one or more delay elements used in the CDR circuit . In another example the maximum symbol transmission rate of the M Wire N Phase communications link may be significantly increased when the proportion of the symbol interval occupied by the transition region is minimized and the proportion of the symbol interval occupied by the eye opening is maximized.

According to certain aspects of this disclosure variations of the transition region may be significantly reduced at the transmitter by considering each symbol transition individually and selectively delaying or advancing a transition on one or more signal wire. In some instances detection circuitry in the transmitter may be adapted to determine anticipated or calculated transition times associated with a symbol transition. In one example the transmitter may determine whether the duration of transition region exceeds a predetermined maximum or threshold period. If the transition region exceeds the maximum or threshold period then one or more signals may be advanced or delayed to reduce the transition region at the receiver for the symbol transition. The maximum or threshold period may be determined based on a specified or desired symbol transmission rate tolerances of the CDR circuit and or tolerances defined for other circuits in the transmitter or receiver. The maximum or threshold period may be defined to obtain a specified or desired minimum duration of the eye opening . The maximum or threshold period may be defined to minimize jitter in a receive clock derived from the transmitted signals. The transition region may be significantly reduced when one or more signals may be advanced or delayed.

In the example three signals are provided to corresponding inputs of circuitry which is configured to selectively advance and or delay one or more of the signals and to produce output signals at the outputs . As shown in the input timing diagram the depicted input signals include a transition between two symbol intervals and . In the first symbol interval the signals correspond to a x symbol having a value of 1 1 0 see . In the second symbol interval the signals correspond to a z symbol having a value of 1 0 1. For illustrative purposes only it may be assumed that transitions between the 0 signaling state and the 1 or 1 signaling states are the fastest transitions while a transition to the 0 signaling state is the slowest transition. In some instances the relative speeds of transitions between the signaling states may be different.

The advance delay circuitry may be configured to advance the slowest transitioning signal and or delay the fastest transitioning signal such that the receiver generates transitions within a shortened transition interval. In this example the advance delay circuitry may determine that a transition on the third signal is likely to produce the fastest transition detection at the receiver a transition on the second signal is likely to produce the slowest transition detection at the receiver and a transition on the first signal is likely to produce neither the fastest nor the slowest transition detection at the receiver. In one example the advance delay circuitry may provide output signals which are versions of the three input signals and in which the transition in the second signal is advanced with respect to the symbol transition and the third signal is delayed with respect to the symbol transition . In some instances the transition in the first signal may be delayed or advanced such that the transitions on all output signals produce transition detections at the receiver that are closely aligned to an edge of a symbol clock. In other instances at least one of the three output signals and or is neither delayed nor advanced and advancements or delays applied to the other output signals are calculated to obtain alignment of transition detections without regard to the symbol clock used by the receiver. That is to say one or more of the signals transmitted to the receiver may be advanced and or delayed with respect to the other signals such that the edges may be more closely aligned when received by the differential receivers and . The decision to advance or retard certain outputs may be based on the states of the raw symbol values before and after the symbol transition.

The multiplexer may be controlled by a select signal provided by decision logic . The decision logic may compare the signaling states of the three input signals corresponding to the next symbol interval see with the signaling states of the three output signals corresponding to the current symbol interval which is stored in a register or flip flops . The decision logic may determine the types of signal transitions anticipated for each wire at the boundary between the symbol intervals and may determine whether the transition region may be expected to exceed a threshold or maximum period. The decision logic may provide a select signal to control the multiplexer in each cell and that processes one of the three signals . In one example a programmable cell and may be provided for each of the three signals . In another example a programmable cell and or may be provided for two of the three signals and or with the other signal or being delayed by a fixed period of time. In the latter example the two cells and or may be used to adjust the timing of two signals and or relative to the timing of the third signal or that has a fixed delay.

Other approaches may be implemented. In one example an undriven output of one or more drivers may be selectively driven at the beginning of a transition with a high drive strength to quickly achieve the necessary transition. This assistance may be removed or reduced during the transition after completion of the transition and or after the round trip time over the cable has expired. Temporarily driving the undriven output hard may reduce power consumption in the driver. Temporarily driving the undriven output may be preformed in addition to advancing or retarding edges during transitions.

The timing charts and relate to a transition from symbol x to symbol y in which signal A transitions from a 1 state to a 0 state signal B transitions from a 1 state to a 1 state and signal C transitions from a 0 state to a 1 state. Accordingly the first differential receiver may measure a 2 difference before the transition and a 1 difference after the transition the second differential receiver may measure a 1 difference before the transition and a 2 difference after the transition and the third differential receiver may measure a 1 difference before the transition and a 1 difference after the transition effectively no transition . In this example the transitions and have zero crossings that are separated by a significant period of time. The difference may occur because the BC transition involves two signals that have a final driven state while the AB transition relates to one signal that has a final undriven state. Corrective action may be taken at the transmitter through the operation of an encoder see or other circuits such as line drivers . In one example the beginning of the transition of signal A may be advanced to accelerate the transition of signal A with respect to signal B thereby obtaining a faster output transition of differential receiver which compares signals A and B. The beginning of the transition of signal C may also be advanced to prevent the occurrence of transients since both signals A and C change and the differential receiver compares signals A and C.

The timing charts and relate to a transition from symbol x to symbol z in which signal A transitions from a 1 state to a 1 state signal B transitions from a 1 state to a 0 state and signal C transitions from a 0 state to a 1 state. Accordingly the first differential receiver may measure a 2 difference before the transition and a 1 difference after the transition the second differential receiver may measure a 1 difference before the transition and a 1 difference after the transition effectively no transition and the third differential receiver may measure a 1 difference before the transition and a 2 difference after the transition . In this example the transitions and have zero crossings that are separated by a significant period of time. The difference may be attributed to the CA transition involving signals A and C that both have a final driven state while the AB transition involves one signal the B signal that has a final undriven state. Corrective action may be taken at the transmitter typically by an encoder drivers or other circuits adapted according to certain aspects disclosed herein. For example the beginning of the transition of signal B may be advanced to accelerate the transition of signal B with respect to signal A thereby obtaining a faster output transition of differential receiver which compares signals A and B. The beginning of the transition of signal C may also be advanced to prevent the occurrence of transients since both signals A and C change and the differential receiver compares signals A and C.

The examples illustrated in describe alignment of transitions for the three state transitions x to x x to y and x to z. The conditions that occur in these three state transitions may be present in 18 of the 30 possible state transitions shown in and similar corrective actions may be taken by the transmitter to accelerate these additional state transitions. The illustrated examples describe advancement and of signals A and B respectively when those signals are transitioning to the undriven 0 state. In some instances the transmitter may delay the rising edge of the B driver output during x to y transitions for example in order to align the detection of the state transitions. The transmitter may alternatively or additionally increase the rise or fall times of signals that have a final destination state that is undriven. For example pre emphasis circuits in one or more drivers may be activated or a temporarily stronger driver may be used to initially drive a signal to the un driven state. Similar techniques may be applied to the x to z state transition.

Signals A B and or C may be selectively advanced by manipulating one or more clocks used to time the production of the signals in a transmitter. In one example one or more fewer clock cycles may be used when counting the duration of a state of one wire or prior to a transition in order to cause the transition to be accelerated. In another example one or extra clock cycles may be added to the duration of a state of one wire or prior to a transition in order to delay the transition. Typically the transmitter may adjust the timing of subsequent symbols to account for the clock cycles that are added or dropped to delay or accelerate the beginning of a signal transition.

Transition times involving wire or transitioning to the undriven state may be accelerated by initially driving the wire or towards the undriven state. In some instances the undriven state may be obtained using passive or active components to pull the wires and or towards a predetermined neutral voltage level.

In the illustrated example the processing circuit may be implemented with a bus architecture represented generally by the bus . The bus may include any number of interconnecting buses and bridges depending on the specific application of the processing circuit and the overall design constraints. The bus links together various circuits including the one or more processors and storage . Storage may include memory devices and mass storage devices and may be referred to herein as computer readable media. The bus may also link various other circuits such as timing sources timers peripherals voltage regulators and power management circuits. A bus interface may provide an interface between the bus and a transceiver . The transceiver provides a means for communicating with various other apparatus over a transmission medium. Depending upon the nature of the apparatus a user interface e.g. keypad display speaker microphone joystick may also be provided and may be communicatively coupled to the bus directly or through a bus interface .

A processor may be responsible for managing the bus and for general processing that may include the execution of software stored in a computer readable medium that may include the storage . In this respect the processing circuit including the processor may be used to implement any of the methods functions and techniques disclosed herein. The storage may be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software and the software may be configured to implement any one of the methods disclosed herein.

One or more processors in the processing circuit may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions instruction sets code code segments program code programs subprograms software modules applications software applications software packages routines subroutines objects executables threads of execution procedures functions algorithms etc. whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise. The software may reside in computer readable form in the storage or in an external computer readable medium. The computer readable medium and or storage may be a non transitory computer readable medium. A non transitory computer readable medium includes by way of example a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip an optical disk e.g. a compact disc CD or a digital versatile disc DVD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. a flash drive a card a stick or a key drive a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM an electrically erasable PROM EEPROM a register a removable disk and any other suitable medium for storing software and or instructions that may be accessed and read by a computer. The computer readable medium and or storage may also include by way of example a carrier wave a transmission line and any other suitable medium for transmitting software and or instructions that may be accessed and read by a computer. Computer readable medium and or the storage may reside in the processing circuit in the processor external to the processing circuit or be distributed across multiple entities including the processing circuit . The computer readable medium and or storage may be embodied in a computer program product. By way of example a computer program product may include a computer readable medium in packaging materials. Those skilled in the art will recognize how best to implement the described functionality presented throughout this disclosure depending on the particular application and the overall design constraints imposed on the overall system.

The storage may maintain software maintained and or organized in loadable code segments modules applications programs etc. which may be referred to herein as software modules . Each of the software modules may include instructions and data that when installed or loaded on the processing circuit and executed by the one or more processors contribute to a run time image that controls the operation of the one or more processors . When executed certain instructions may cause the processing circuit to perform functions in accordance with certain methods algorithms and processes described herein.

Some of the software modules may be loaded during initialization of the processing circuit and these software modules may configure the processing circuit to enable performance of the various functions disclosed herein. For example some software modules may configure internal devices and or logic circuits of the processor and may manage access to external devices such as the transceiver the bus interface the user interface timers mathematical coprocessors and so on. The software modules may include a control program and or an operating system that interacts with interrupt handlers and device drivers and that controls access to various resources provided by the processing circuit . The resources may include memory processing time access to the transceiver the user interface and so on.

One or more processors of the processing circuit may be multifunctional whereby some of the software modules are loaded and configured to perform different functions or different instances of the same function. The one or more processors may additionally be adapted to manage background tasks initiated in response to inputs from the user interface the transceiver and device drivers for example. To support the performance of multiple functions the one or more processors may be configured to provide a multitasking environment whereby each of a plurality of functions is implemented as a set of tasks serviced by the one or more processors as needed or desired. In one example the multitasking environment may be implemented using a timesharing program that passes control of a processor between different tasks whereby each task returns control of the one or more processors to the timesharing program upon completion of any outstanding operations and or in response to an input such as an interrupt. When a task has control of the one or more processors the processing circuit is effectively specialized for the purposes addressed by the function associated with the controlling task. The timesharing program may include an operating system a main loop that transfers control on a round robin basis a function that allocates control of the one or more processors in accordance with a prioritization of the functions and or an interrupt driven main loop that responds to external events by providing control of the one or more processors to a handling function.

At step the device may estimate a duration of a transition interval at a symbol boundary between the pair of consecutive symbols based on the differences.

At step the device may modify operation of one or more drivers of the three or more connectors to reduce the duration of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed a threshold period. Each symbol may define one of at least three signaling states for each of the three or more connectors. The device may modify operation of the one or more drivers by causing temporal alignment of two or more outputs of state transition detection circuits in a receiver. The state transition detection circuits may be configured to compare signaling states of different pairs of the three or more connectors. Causing temporal alignment may include causing transitions to occur within a time period that is less than the threshold period

In one example the device may modify operation of the one or more drivers by configuring one or more delays to cause the driver to initiate a state transition on a first connector before a corresponding state transition is initiated on a second connector.

In another example the device may modify operation of the one or more drivers by configuring one or more delays to cause the driver to initiate a state transition on a first connector after a corresponding state transition is initiated on a second connector.

In another example the device may modify operation of the one or more drivers by configuring one or more delays to cause the driver to delay or advance initiation of a state transition on a first connector with respect to initiation of a corresponding state transition on a second connector.

In another example the device may modify operation of the one or more drivers by delaying or advancing an initiation of a state transition on at least one connector when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed the threshold period. The device may refrain from delaying or advancing state transitions on the three or more connectors when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to be less than the threshold period.

In another example the device may modify operation of the one or more drivers by actively driving one connector during at least a portion of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed the threshold period. The device may refrain from driving the one connector while a second symbol of the pair of consecutive symbols is transmitted when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to be less than the threshold period.

In one example the device may estimate the duration of the transition interval by determining a signaling state transition time for each of the three or more connectors relative to the symbol boundary and estimating delays between the symbol boundary and transitions in outputs of each of a plurality of differential receivers at a receiver. Each of the plurality of differential receivers may be coupled to a different pair of the three or more connectors.

The processor may include a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor a sequencer a state machine etc. The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable storage medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing circuit to perform the various functions described supra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable storage medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software. The processing circuit further includes at least one of the modules and . The modules and or may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable storage medium one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof.

In one configuration the apparatus for wireless communication includes a module or circuit configured to determine differences related to signaling states of three or more connectors between each pair of consecutive symbols in a plurality of symbols to be transmitted on three or more connectors a module or circuit configured to estimate a duration of a transition interval at a symbol boundary between the pair of consecutive symbols based on the differences and a module or circuit configured modify operation of one or more drivers of the three or more connectors to reduce the duration of the transition interval when the duration of the transition interval is estimated to exceed a threshold period. Each symbol may define one of at least three signaling states for each of the three or more connectors. The apparatus may include modules and or circuits for encoding and or decoding data transmitted over the three or more connectors as well as a CDR or other circuits used to receive and or transmit symbols on the three or more connectors . The aforementioned modules or circuits may be implemented for example using a processing circuit see that is configured to operate as some combination of a processor or physical layer drivers or and storage media and .

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed as a means plus function unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. 

