---

title: Therapeutic agent delivery system and method
abstract: A therapeutic agent delivery system includes a therapeutic agent delivery platform and a therapeutic guest agent. The therapeutic agent delivery platform is capable of being implanted in a tissue being treated. The platform includes a substrate and at least one host molecule coupled to the substrate. The therapeutic guest agent is capable of reversibly coupling with the host molecule when administered to the tissue being treated. The reversible coupling is defined by the binding affinity between the host molecule and the therapeutic guest agent. The therapeutic guest agent is delivered at a rate determined by the affinity release rate between the host molecule and the therapeutic guest agent. The degradation rate of the therapeutic guest agent may be slower than the affinity release rate between the host molecule and the therapeutic guest agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642920&OS=09642920&RS=09642920
owner: Case Western Reserve University
number: 09642920
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140805
---
This application claims the benefit from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 376 298 filed on May 21 2012 which was a national stage application claiming the benefit of International Patent Application No. PCT US10 371 183 filed on Jun. 3 2010 which claimed the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 183 698 entitled Therapeutic Agent Delivery System and Method filed on Jun. 3 2009 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This work was supported at least in part by grant number NIH 1R25CA148052 from the Training Program in Cancer Pharmacology and National Science Foundation Award CBET 0954489 for CAREER Research and Education Program in Affinity Based Drug Delivery. The United States government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention generally relates to a therapeutic system and a method for delivery and more particularly to a therapeutic agent delivery system and related method for delivering a therapeutic agent to a desired location.

In many drug delivery applications including the delivery of therapeutic agents proteins and genes it is desirable to provide both temporal and spatial control over drug delivery or durable presence of signaling molecules. A high level of spatio temporal control is needed to maintain the concentration of the drug at the site of action at a therapeutic level while minimizing undesirable systemic side effects. In addition to providing both controlled and targeted drug delivery for many applications there must also exist some mechanism for protecting the therapeutic agent from in vivo degradation and inactivation. Consequently many drug delivery systems DDSs composed of drug encapsulated in degradable or non degradable polymer matrices and micro or nanoparticles have been developed. Encapsulating the therapeutic agent in a polymer matrix not only protects the drug from degradation but also allows for the delivery of a large drug payload which can be released over an extended period of time.

Drug release from such systems is typically controlled by passive diffusion from the polymer matrix or a combination of diffusion and matrix degradation. While based on passive mechanisms for providing control over drug delivery these systems do afford a certain degree of tunability. By altering parameters such as the polymer composition or the crosslink density the degradation rate of the matrix can be controlled. The use of DDSs with multiple layers has also been examined as a means of providing finer control over drug release. Systems that offer an even greater degree of tunability by utilizing more active mechanisms for controlling drug delivery have also been developed. These systems often use external stimuli such as pH ionic strength and or temperature to further control drug release. However all of these systems share a number of limitations stemming from the lack of a selective interaction between the drug and the DDS that greatly restrict their broad efficacy across a number of different applications.

Without the ability to form selective interactions between the drug and DDS the ability to tune the system becomes a function of the properties of the polymer matrix e.g. pore size degradation rate sensitivity to changes in pH ionic strength or temperature etc. which often necessitates the development of multiple designs to meet different applications. This limitation is both inefficient and time consuming and demonstrates the need for the development of a general platform that can be tuned to different applications independently of its properties. Furthermore while many of the systems previously described can be used to provide control over the release of a single agent they are limited in their ability to selectively control the release of multiple agents. The ability to selectively control the release and thus expression of multiple agents is especially important in tissue engineering applications that intend to recapitulate the natural tissue regeneration process. In such applications the DDS must be able to express different bioactive agents at different time points. Thus the DDS must contain some mechanism for providing selective control over the release of multiple agents. Finally for the majority of implantable DDSs the drug reservoir is limited. While this may be acceptable or even desirable for some applications it is a major drawback for the treatment of chronic conditions e.g. insulin delivery in diabetes . For such applications a reloadable drug reservoir is needed. This presents a complicated design criterion as the DDS must be able to selectively interact with and bind the desired drug molecule s from the surrounding environment.

The present invention relates to a therapeutic agent delivery system that includes a therapeutic agent delivery platform and a therapeutic guest agent. The therapeutic agent delivery platform is capable of being implanted in a tissue being treated. The platform includes a substrate and at least one host molecule coupled to the substrate. The therapeutic guest agent is capable of reversibly coupling with the host molecule when administered to the tissue being treated. The reversible coupling is defined by the binding affinity between the host molecule and the therapeutic guest agent. Depending on the nature of this reversible coupling two scenarios can be realized. If the degradation rate of the therapeutic guest agent is slower than the affinity release rate between the host molecule and the therapeutic guest agent then once the agent is released from the coupling it will be available for therapeutic delivery elsewhere in the body e.g. antibiotics chemotherapy etc. . If the degradation of the agent is faster than the release rate then the reversible coupling can be used for the durable presence of a signaling molecule on a material or device e.g. heparin RGD etc. . The therapeutic agent delivery platform is a capable of being reloaded with additional therapeutic agent after release of the therapeutic agent to the tissue being treated.

The terminology as set forth herein is for description of the embodiments only and should not be construed as limiting of the invention as a whole. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are inclusive of their plural forms unless contraindicated by the context surrounding such. In addition the recitations of numerical ranges by endpoints include all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. .

Treat treating and treatment etc. as used herein refer to any action providing a benefit to a subject afflicted with a condition or disease including improvement in the condition through lessening or suppression of at least one symptom delay in progression of the disease etc.

Prevention as used herein refers to any action providing a benefit to a subject at risk of being afflicted with a condition or disease such as a sexually transmitted disease including avoidance of the development of the disease or a decrease of one or more symptoms of a disease should one develop. The subject may be at risk due to exposure to the disease.

The terms therapeutically effective and pharmacologically effective are intended to qualify the amount of each agent which will achieve the goal of decreasing disease severity while avoiding adverse side effects such as those typically associated with alternative therapies. The therapeutically effective amount may be administered in one or more doses.

The term subject as used herein refers to any animal. However the subject is preferably a mammal such as a domesticated farm animal e.g. cow horse pig or pet e.g. dog cat . More preferably the subject is a human.

As used herein the term affinity refers to the tendency of a compound to naturally associate with a region on the surface of a protein. Affinities are influenced by non covalent intermolecular interactions between the two molecules such as hydrogen bonding electrostatic interactions hydrophobic and Van der Waals forces. The level of affinity is expressed by a dissociation constant which has molar units M that correspond to the concentration of ligand at which the site of affinity on a particular protein is half occupied i.e. the concentration of ligand at which the concentration of protein with ligand bound equals the concentration of protein with no ligand bound. The smaller the dissociation constant the more tightly bound the ligand is or the higher the affinity between ligand and protein. As used herein a compound can be said to have affinity for a protein if it would have dissociation constant of at least one micromolar.

As used herein polypeptide refers to a polymer of amino acids and does not imply a specific length of a polymer of amino acids. Thus for example the terms peptide oligopeptide protein antibody and enzyme are included within the definition of polypeptide. This term also includes polypeptides with post expression modification such as glycosylation e.g. the addition of a saccharide or polysaccharide acetylation phosphorylation and the like.

The present invention generally relates to a therapeutic system and more particularly to a therapeutic agent delivery system. The therapeutic system of the present invention includes a therapeutic guest agent and a therapeutic guest agent delivery platform. The therapeutic guest agent can selectively and reversibly interact with the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform to provide finer control over therapeutic agent loading and release profiles.

In particular the therapeutic guest agent may selectively and reversibly interact with the host molecule in the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform. The ability to form selective and reversible interactions between the therapeutic guest agent and the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform affords a number of advantages over systems that employ nonselective methods for controlling drug loading and release. By altering the type of interaction the number of interactions as well as the concentration and geometries of the therapeutic guest agent and the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform in particular the host molecule it is possible to achieve a variety of loading and release kinetics ranging from low affinity reversible interactions to interactions with such high affinity that they are essentially irreversible within the lifetime of the patient or device resulting in the durable presence of that molecule on that material. Individual interactions can also be multiplexed on a given molecule resulting in a change from low affinity to high affinity.

Additionally the use of selective interactions between the therapeutic guest agent and the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform in particular the host molecule presents a facile means for providing targeted drug delivery. The loading and release kinetics of the therapeutic guest agent with the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform allows the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform to be selectively refilled or reloaded with additional therapeutic guest agents after the therapeutic guest agent has been delivered to the desired area.

A therapeutic agent delivery platform may comprise a substrate and a host molecule. The platform may be capable of but is not limited to being implanted in a tissue of a subject. As described in more detail below a therapeutic guest agent such as a polypeptide a polynucleotide a small molecule an antibiotic a steroid or an imaging agent can include a portion capable of reversibly complexing with a host molecule attached to the substrate. Unlike other therapeutic agent delivery systems which rely solely on diffusion for therapeutic agent delivery the reversible complexing of the host molecule and the therapeutic guest agent of the present invention is governed by molecular affinity interactions so that the degradation rate of the therapeutic guest agent may be slower than the affinity release rate of the therapeutic guest agent from the host molecule.

The therapeutic agent delivery platform may include a substrate and at least one host molecule coupled to the substrate. In one embodiment the substrate may comprise but is not limited to a plurality of particles. The particles may be sized so that the particles remain substantially implanted in a desired area such as but not limited to tissue and do not migrate as a result of fluid flow such as but not limited to blood through the desired area. For example the particles may be dimensioned so that the particles remain substantially implanted in the tissue and do not migrate to a tissue or tissues not being treated. Depending upon the particular type and location of the tissue the particles can be dimensioned to have nanoscale i.e. nanoparticles or microscale i.e. microparticles sizes.

Where the particles comprise microparticles for example the microparticles can have a diameter less than about 1 mm and typically between about 1 and 200 microns. Alternatively where the particles comprise nanoparticles the nanoparticles can have a diameter ranging from about less than 1 nanometer to about 1 micron. Both microparticles and nanoparticles may have but are not limited to an approximately spherical geometry and can be of fairly uniform size. It will be appreciated that the particles may also be larger or smaller than nanoscale or microscale sizes depending upon the particular application of the present invention.

In another embodiment the therapeutic delivery platform may be comprised of a host molecule a substrate or a combination thereof. The host molecule can include any molecule capable of reversibly complexing with the therapeutic guest agent such as but not limited to cyclic oligosaccharides. In one example of the present invention the host molecule can comprise a CD molecule such as an cyclodextrin molecule a cyclodextrin molecule a cyclodextrin molecule or a derivative thereof. As used herein the terms cyclodextrin or CD can refer to cyclic carbohydrate molecules having six seven or eight glucose monomers arranged in a donut shaped ring and which are denoted or cyclodextrin respectively. The terms can also refer to both unmodified and modified CD monomers and polymers i.e. CD derivatives . CD is a ring of 6 8 glucose molecules whose bonds align to form a ring like structure having a hydrophobic pocket and a highly hydrophilic exterior. Hydrophobic small molecules can fit into the pocket of CD molecules and enter solution at a much higher concentration. Due to the reversible nature of this hydrophobic interaction the small molecules can remain unmodified i.e. not degraded and can be released from the hydrophobic pocket based on molecular affinities and or association dissociation kinetics to exert their therapeutic effect s .

In another embodiment the host molecule may be chemically modified CD s such as but not limited to hydroxypropyl CD. The chemically modified CD may be selected due to its affinity to certain therapeutic agents.

It will be appreciated that the host molecule can include a variety of other molecules including antibodies antibody fragments antigens heparin polynucleotides receptor proteins avidin streptavidin and magnetic particles. Host molecules comprising antibodies can include whole antibodies e.g. of any isotype IgG IgA IgM IgE etc. and fragments thereof which are specifically reactive with a target agent. Antibodies can be fragmented using conventional techniques and the fragments screened for utility and or interaction with a specific epitope of interest. Thus antibodies can include segments of proteolytically cleaved or recombinantly prepared portions of an antibody molecule that are capable of selectively reacting with a certain target agent. Non limiting examples of such proteolytic and or recombinant fragments include Fab F ab 2 Fab Fv and single chain antibodies scFv containing a V L and or V H domain joined by a peptide linker. The scFv s may be covalently or non covalently linked to form antibodies having two or more binding sites. Antibodies can also include polyclonal monoclonal or other purified preparations of antibodies recombinant antibodies monovalent antibodies and multivalent antibodies. Antibodies may be humanized and may further include engineered complexes that comprise antibody derived binding sites such as diabodies and triabodies.

Host molecules comprising polynucleotides can include oligonucleotides nucleotides or a fragment thereof DNA or RNA e.g. mRNA rRNA tRNA of genomic or synthetic origin and which may be single or double stranded and may represent a sense or antisense strand peptide nucleic acids or any DNA like or RNA like material of natural or synthetic origin including e.g. iRNA and ribonucleoproteins e.g. iRNPs .

Host molecules comprising receptors can include any protein or polypeptide having a molecular structure which is generally characterized by the selective binding of a specific substance e.g. a ligand receptor or other binding domain . Exemplary receptors can include for example cell surface receptors for peptide hormones neurotransmitters antigens complement fragments immunoglobulins and cytoplasmic receptors for steroid hormones.

Host molecules can also include avidin streptavidin or their derivatives. Avidin a glycoprotein from chicken egg white and streptavidin from are two related proteins that bind biotin with similar dissociation constants of about 10M. Avidin occurs naturally in a tetrameric form with four identical subunits each having about 128 amino acid residues six mannose residues and three glucosamine residues for a combined molecular weight of approximately 68 000. In addition to the ability of avidin and streptavidin to bind biotin many of their physical properties are quite similar. For example both are constructed of four non covalently attached identical subunits each of which bears a single biotin binding site. The subunit Mvalues are very similar. Moreover several short stretches in the sequences of the two proteins are preserved particularly two Trp Lys stretches that occur at approximately similar positions.

Avidin streptavidin and their derivatives as well as methods for obtaining such molecules are within the purview of those skilled in the art. For example modified avidins have been prepared such as N acyl avidins e.g. N formyl N acetyl and N succinyl avidins. These derivatives of avidin reduce the charge of the protein but they may all be prepared via covalent attachment to the available lysines of avidin. An alternative to lysine modification is the modification of arginines on avidin. In this case the lysines are still available for subsequent interaction. Two different derivatives of avidin which are modified in this manner are commercially available. One EXTRAVIDIN can be obtained in various functionally derivatized or conjugated forms from Sigma Chemical Company St. Louis Mo. . A second NEUTRALITE AVIDIN a product of Belovo Chemicals Bastogne Belgium is a deglycosylated form of avidin obtained enzymatically which exhibits a neutral pH and bears free lysine groups for further derivatization. Other avidin derivatives include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 638 508 and 6 632 929 the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Host molecules can additionally or alternatively include magnetic particles or beads. Magnetic particles or beads can comprise particulate material having a magnetically responsive component. Examples of magnetically responsive materials can include ferromagnetic paramagnetic and superparamagnetic materials. Magnetic particles or beads are known in the art and can include for example those described in U.S. Patent Pub. Nos. 2007 0225488 A1 2005 0272049 A1 2004 0132044 A1 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 078 224.

When selecting a host molecule the mechanical properties of the chosen host molecule may be modified to achieve a desired mechanical property for an affinity based delivery system. Modifying the mechanical properties of a host molecule may modify the release rate of the therapeutic guest agent to the desired level. Examples of methods to modify the host molecule mechanical properties include but are not limited to chemical grafting of the host molecule attaching the host molecule to the backbone of a polymer and creating a host molecule polymer by crosslinking the host molecule or short chains thereof. Examples of mechanical properties that may be modified include but are not limited to stiffness strength ductility brittleness malleability plasticity elasticity toughness hardness and combinations of two or more thereof.

In one embodiment a host molecule such as CD may be chemically grafted onto a substrate. This substrate may include but is not limited to gold glass iron based metals titanium polymers polyester and combinations of two or more thereof. The mechanical properties of the host molecule become similar to that of the chosen substrate. In addition the mechanical properties may also have a limited capacity to change.

In another embodiment a host molecule such as CD is attached to the backbone of another polymer. This polymer may include but is not limited to polyvinyl alcohol poly acrylic acid or a combination of two or more thereof. The mechanical properties of the host molecule become similar to that of the chosen polymer. In addition the mechanical properties may also have a limited capacity to change.

In another embodiment CD polymers are created by crosslinking CD or short chains thereof. In one specific embodiment the selected CD may be but is not limited to cyclodextrin and it may be crosslinked at room temperature in which the method of crosslinking has aspects of physical crosslinking and chemical crosslinking. Adjusting the nature of the above method may create materials of different levels of stiffness to provide the desired stiffness. This method is capable of forming polymers with a range of mechanical properties. To achieve desired results it is possible to change either the chemical nature of the crosslinker the chemistry of the crosslinker changing the crosslinker length or a combination of two or more thereof. Examples of possible chemical natures of a crosslinker include but are not limited to a mono functional crosslinker a di functional crosslinker a trifunctional crosslinker or a combination of two or more thereof. Examples of possible crosslinker chemistry include but are not limited to isocyanate chemistry carbodiimide chemistry succinimide chemistry maleimide chemistry and any other crosslinker chemistry known in the art. Examples of methods to obtain a desired crosslinker length include but are not limited to using short and long chains of PEGs as bifunctional crosslinkers. The length of the PEG molecule affects the mechanical properties such as stiffness of the host molecule. Additional examples of specific crosslinkers include di or tri functional isocyanates e.g. hexamethylene diisocyanate and lysine triisocyanate and glycidyl ethers e.g. ethylene diglycidyl ether and PEG diglycidyl ether .

The substrate to which the host molecule is coupled may comprise a polymer. In one embodiment the polymer may be positively charged and or biocompatible. In one embodiment the polymer may be formed from any one or combination of known polymerizable monomers. Biocompatible polymers may include any polymer moiety that is substantially non toxic and does not tend to produce substantial immune responses clotting or other undesirable effects. Examples of suitable biocompatible polymers may include but are not limited to polyamines such as polyvinylamine polylysine polyarginine and polyethyleneneamine poly ols such as polyvinylalcohol polyethylene glycol and polysaccharides and poly carboxylic acids such as polymethacrylic acid and the like and combinations of two or more thereof. Because drug release from the delivery platform is governed by affinity rather than polymer degradation the polymers used can be non biodegradable.

The amount of host molecule that is coupled to the substrate can vary in different embodiments of the invention. The amount of host molecule relative to the amount of substrate can vary from 1 to 99 by weight and any of the other percentages included therebetween. For example in some embodiments the delivery vehicle includes 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 host molecule e.g. cyclodextrin relative to substrate e.g. polymer .

The substrate may also comprise at least one of but is not limited to antibodies antibody fragments antigens heparin integrins polynucleotides receptor proteins avidin streptavidin magnetic particles and the like.

Host molecules may be coupled directly with the polymer via any one or combination of known molecular interactions including electrostatic interactions metal coordination covalent bonding non covalent interactions hydrophobic interactions hydrogen bonding ionic forces van der Waals forces and combinations of two or more thereof. It will be appreciated that the polymer the host molecule or both can be chemically modified to modulate the molecular interaction s between the polymer surface and the host molecule. By adding a known functional group to the surface of the polymer that binds a particular host molecule for example the molecular interaction s between host molecules and the surface of the polymer can be increased.

In one example of the present invention a CD molecule may be coupled directly with the polymer via electrostatic interactions between the negatively charged hydroxyl groups of the CD molecule and the positively charged polymer. The CD molecule can also be chemically modified to facilitate coupling of the CD molecule with the polymer by replacing for example a hydroxyl group of the CD molecule with a thiol group. Additionally or alternatively a bifunctional cross linker such as PMPI can be used to facilitate coupling of the CD molecule and the polymer. Other methods of chemically coupling a host molecule to a surface can include CD thiols attaching to gold CD silanes attaching to glass and or ceramics CD phosphates attaching to titanium and CD catechols or other diols attaching to iron containing compounds e.g. steel .

In one embodiment the therapeutic guest agent may include a portion for coupling to a portion of the host molecule. The portion of the therapeutic guest agent and or the portion of the host molecule may include but is not limited to a portion of a molecule a hydrophobic linker coupled to the therapeutic guest agent or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the therapeutic guest can include a hydrophobic portion for coupling to a CD molecule.

A therapeutic guest agent may be any agent that is desired to be provided to a specific area as released by the host molecule. Such therapeutic guest agents may include but are not limited to polypeptides e.g. growth factors antibodies etc. polynucleotides small molecules and imaging agents and combinations of two or more thereof. The therapeutic agent delivery system may also include more than one therapeutic guest agent that are the same as or different from the other therapeutic guest agents. The therapeutic guest agent administered will be one suitable for the treatment of the disease or condition being treated. For example in the case of cancer treatment the therapeutic guest agent will be an anticancer agent. The therapeutic guest agent may also comprise any one or combination of two or more of the following many of which are anticancer agents 

Alkaloids including but not limited to docetaxel etoposide irinotecan paclitaxel TAXOL teniposide topotecan vinblastine vincristine and vindesine 

Alkylating agents including but not limited to busulfan improsulfan piposulfan benzodepa carboquone meturedepa uredepa altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide chlorambucil chloranaphazine cyclophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide HCl melphalan novemebichin perfosfamide phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine semustine ranimustine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman and temozolomide 

Antibiotics and analogs thereof including but not limited to aclacinomycins actinomycins anthramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carubicin carzinophilin cromomycins dactinomycins daunorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo 1 norleucine doxorubicin epirubicin idarubicin menogaril mitomycins mycophenolic acid nogalamycine olivomycins peplomycin pirarubicin plicamycin porfiromycin puromycine streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin zinostatin and zorubicin 

Antimetabolites including but not limited to denopterin edatrexate mercaptopurine 6 MP methotrexate piritrexim pteropterin pentostatin 2 DCF tomudex trimetrexate cladridine fludarabine thiamiprine ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine doxifluridine emitefur floxuridine fluorouracil gemcitabine tegafur hydroxyurea and urethan 

Pyrimidine and purine antagonists including but not limited to fluorouracil 5 FU fluorodeoxyuridine 5 FUDR azacytidine 5 AZC 6 thioguanine 6 TG chlorodeoxyadenosine 2 CDA and

Other agents including but not limited to aceglatone amsacrine bisantrene defosfamide demecolcine diaziquone eflornithine elliptinium acetate etoglucid etoposide fenretinide gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lonidamine miltefosine mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidamol nitracrine pentostatin phenamet podophillinic acid 2 ethyl hydrazide procarbazine razoxane sobuzoxane spirogermanium teniposide tenuazonic acid triaziquone and 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine.

In another embodiment the therapeutic guest agent may comprise DNA or RNA or a therapeutic molecule using DNA or RNA as a coupling agent. In one embodiment when the therapeutic guest agent comprises RNA the RNA polynucleotide can include a siRNA a microRNA a sense RNA an anti sense RNA a ribozyme or a combination of two or more thereof. In another embodiment when the therapeutic guest agent comprises a DNA plasmid the plasmid may include a therapeutic polynucleotide encoding a therapeutic polypeptide. It will be appreciated that the therapeutic polynucleotide can include any desired gene or gene fragment capable of promoting or causing a desirable cellular effect. In one embodiment the desirable effect may be tumor suppression but the desirable effect may be any desirable effect known in the art. In one embodiment when the desirable effect is tumor suppression the therapeutic agent may be a therapeutic polynucleotide that may include a tumor suppressor gene a chemokine gene a cytokine gene an antigenic gene a cytotoxic gene a cytostatic gene an apoptotic gene i.e. a pro apoptotic gene an anti angiogenic gene or a combination of two or more thereof.

In another embodiment the therapeutic guest agent may comprise any bioactive agent capable of arresting cancer or tumor cell growth inducing apoptosis of a cancer or tumor cell and or labeling a cell cancerous or non cancerous in which the bioactive agent is present or otherwise associated with inducing an immune response in a subject arresting or preventing microbial growth and or proliferation and increasing or decreasing transcription or translation in a cell.

In another embodiment the therapeutic guest agent may also include an imaging agent. Generally an imaging agent may include any compound used to detect image and or monitor the presence and or progression of a condition s pathological disorder s and or disease s . Imaging agents may be used for any use known in the art such as but not limited to studying a wide range of physiologic processes disease diagnosis disease prognosis diagnostic procedures and the broader study of biological systems.

The substrate of the therapeutic agent delivery system may be selectively varied or modified to control the temporal and spatial delivery aspects of the therapeutic guest agent. The distribution e.g. the number of host molecules coupled with the substrate can be increased or decreased depending upon the desired spatial and temporal release profile for a given therapeutic guest agent or agents . For example a greater number of host molecules can be coupled with the surface of the substrate to promote a higher concentration and thus spatial distribution of therapeutic guest agents.

In one embodiment the affinity interaction between the therapeutic agent and the host molecule may depend on the type of host molecule selected and the size of the hydrophobic molecules present in the therapeutic guest agent. In addition the affinity interaction may differ because of the differing pocket sizes in the host molecule. The differing pocket sizes enable the host molecule to accommodate various sizes of therapeutic guest agent molecules with varying release rates. The release rate of the therapeutic guest agent may depend on the affinity interaction between the therapeutic guest agent and the host molecule. In one specific embodiment the therapeutic guest agent release rate may depend on how the therapeutic guest agent fits in the pocket. In some embodiments a plurality of host molecules e.g. cyclodextrin define a plurality of pockets.

In one embodiment cyclodextrin which has the smallest cavity size of the group containing a cyclodextrin molecule cyclodextrin molecule and cyclodextrin molecule may accommodate smaller portions of hydrophobic groups present in a therapeutic guest agent or a hydrophobic unit having a similar size as that of the cavity size of the cyclodextrin. While cyclodextrin has the largest cavity size that can accommodate larger hydrophobic groups if present in the therapeutic guest agent. cyclodextrin cavity size falls in between cyclodextrin and cyclodextrin and accommodates accordingly.

In another embodiment the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform may be selected due to the stiffness of the therapeutic delivery platform. In one embodiment therapeutic guest agent delivery platforms with low stiffness may include but are not limited to gels such as hydrogels. Stiffness in a therapeutic delivery platform may be changed by a variety of ways. Examples of ways to modify stiffness in a therapeutic delivery platform include but is not limited to the time of crosslinking type of crosslinker size of crosslinker concentration of crosslinker chemical conjugation and the number type of physical interaction such as but not limited to clay or ionic charge interactions.

In one example the stiffness of the room temperature crosslinked gels is proportional to the time of crosslinking. The longer the time of crosslinking the greater the stiffness of the gel. In another example gel stiffness may also be dependent on the type of crosslinker. A branched crosslinker gives gels that have less stiffness while linear hydrophobic crosslinkers give gels with more stiffness. In one embodiment in linear hydrophobic crosslinkers hydrophobic interactions within the crosslinker as well as with CD molecules may lead to increased stiffness of the gels. In one embodiment the above crosslinking may be possible in gels crosslinked at room temperature and is the result of allowing enough time for conformational change to occur the formation of hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. The above combinations may have a dramatic effect on stiffness and therefore modulate CD measured stiffness from kPa to MPa.

In one embodiment for orthopedic applications the desired stiffness falls in the range of kPa to MPa.

In one embodiment when the therapeutic guest agent is a hydrophobic drug the affinity based release may depend on either one of or both the structure of the therapeutic agent and the stiffness of the therapeutic delivery platform. In one example if the therapeutic guest agent is a drug that fits exactly within a host molecule pocket such as CD and is coupled with a stiffness that is high enough it may be very difficult for the drug to escape from the therapeutic delivery platform as the interaction between the drug and host molecule is intensified.

Other ways to alter the chemical nature of the pocket include but are not limited to using other kinds of molecular affinity interactions such as protein protein interactions such as receptor ligand interactions and antibody antigen interactions using oligonucleotide interactions of complimentary strands using heparin growth factor interactions using avidin biotin interactions and other similar interactions known in the art.

To further modulate delivery and release of therapeutic guest agents to and from host molecules therapeutic guest agents can be chemically modified with a tuning molecule. By altering the type of monovalent interaction the number of interactions as well as the concentration and geometry of both the host and therapeutic guest molecules it is possible to modulate or fine tune the binding strength and thus the kinetics of the host molecule therapeutic guest agent interaction so that the complete range from highly reversible monovalent interactions to highly stable and even irreversible polyvalent interactions can be achieved. For example by tethering multiple monovalent therapeutic guest agents together using a tuning molecule to form a multivalent therapeutic guest agent it is possible to increase the overall binding affinity i.e. the avidity between a host molecule and a therapeutic guest agent.

The release rate may be altered by changing the chemical nature of the therapeutic agent or by inserting an inert molecule that fits within the host molecule but can be conjugated to the therapeutic guest agent. This allows any therapeutic guest agent to be used with an affinity based system even if that therapeutic guest agent has no affinities itself. In one embodiment multiple inert molecules may be connected to a therapeutic guest agent to change the release rate to the desired result.

The release rate of the therapeutic guest agent is minimally affected by the thinness of the therapeutic delivery platform.

Therapeutic guest agents may contain multiple affinity domains. Therapeutic agents may be modified so the therapeutic guest agent has a higher binding constant compared to its pure form. In one example rifampin a specific antibiotic may be modified that results in a drug version that has a higher binding constant compared to the pure antibiotic.

More than one therapeutic delivery platform may be used at a time. In one embodiment at least two separate host molecules may be tuned to have at least two different therapeutic guest agents release at desired rates from a device. Such as but not limited to a small therapeutic guest agent being released from a small pocket from a host molecule and a larger therapeutic guest agent being released from a larger pocket from a second host molecule. In one example this may be used for the synergistic release of at least two antibiotics but may also be used for two anticancer drugs or two of any other therapeutic guest agent listed.

The tuning molecule may include a hydrophobic molecule such as adamantane or a portion thereof that is capable of coupling with a hydrophobic portion of a host molecule e.g. the hydrophobic pocket of a CD molecule . Adamantane consists of four cyclohexanes fused to each other in chair conformations. Because adamantane is generally hydrophobic an adamantane molecule or a portion thereof can be readily coupled with both the hydrophobic pocket of a CD molecule and a therapeutic guest agent. A hydrophobic tuning molecule such as adamantane can facilitate coupling of less hydrophobic and or hydrophilic therapeutic guest agents with host molecules that may not readily couple with a hydrophobic portion of a host molecule. In one example as the number of adamantane molecules increase per therapeutic guest agent molecule less therapeutic guest agent is released. The tuning molecule may consist of adamantane or more suitable hydrophobic units that have a higher binding constant with the selected host molecule to improve the sustained release properties of the therapeutic guest agents.

In one embodiment enough tuning molecule may be added to the host molecule to make the affinity between the host molecule and the therapeutic guest agent so high that the therapeutic guest agent essentially never releases before the therapeutic guest agent degrades. In one example in an experimental drug using CD as the host molecule and adamantane as the tuning molecule the above result was reached with about 6 adamantane groups per drug molecule. This high affinity situation may be used in examples such as but not limited to self assembling bio active agents on the surface of an implant refilling renewing and reloading similar to the drug delivery version.

It will be appreciated that the tuning molecule can comprise other molecules capable of facilitating coupling between the therapeutic guest agents and the host molecules. For example stimuli response polymers such as NIPAAm can be coupled with the therapeutic guest agents to permit selective release of the therapeutic guest agents from the host molecules. NIPAAm molecules contain a hydrophilic group i.e. an amido group and a hydrophobic group i.e. an isopropyl group . NIPAAm molecules can change their overall hydrophobicity or hydrophilicity in response to a change in temperatures above or below a critical temperature of about 32 C. For example a temperature of about 37 C. can yield generally hydrophobic NIPAAm molecules while a temperature of about 25 C. can yield generally hydrophilic NIPAAm molecules. By selectively adjusting the temperature the hydrophobicity or hydrophilcity of NIPAAm molecules coupled with therapeutic guest agents can be manipulated so that the NIPAAm molecules are coupled with host molecules at body temperature i.e. 37 C. and can then be released from the host molecules at a temperature of about 25 C.

Besides providing a means for coupling therapeutic guest agents with host molecules the tuning molecule can also be used to establish a gradient release profile for the therapeutic guest agents. For example a therapeutic guest agent can be coupled to a plurality of tuning molecules so that the tuning molecules couple with a respective plurality of host molecules. With this arrangement release of the tuning molecules from the host molecules permits only the release of the therapeutic guest agent and thus a slower release profile as compared to a single therapeutic guest agent tuning molecule complex can be established.

Release of the therapeutic guest agents from host molecules can also be selectively controlled by flooding implanted substrates of the therapeutic agent delivery platform with tuning molecules. Where therapeutic guest agents are coupled with hydrophobic tuning molecules for example a plurality i.e. excess of non coupled hydrophobic tuning molecules can be contacted with the implanted particles. Contacting the implanted particles with an excess of hydrophobic tuning molecules can dislodge or separate the therapeutic guest agents from the host molecules and cause the release of the therapeutic guest agents.

Additionally release of the therapeutic guest agents from host molecules can be selectively controlled by flooding implanted particles with additional and or different therapeutic guest molecules having greater hydrophobicities. For example implanted substrates can be flooded with therapeutic guest agents that are more hydrophobic than the therapeutic guest agents already coupled with host molecules. Consequently the therapeutic guest molecules having a greater hydrophobicity can displace the less hydrophobic therapeutic guest molecules from the host molecules.

Advantageously once the therapeutic agent has been released to the tissue being treated the therapeutic agent delivery platform can be reloaded or refilled with additional therapeutic agents for subsequent or continuing treatment of the tissue. The therapeutic agent delivery platform can be refilled by contacting the therapeutic agent delivery platform with an additional concentration of therapeutic agents. Delivery of the therapeutic agent to the therapeutic agent delivery platform can be performed for example by direct injection of the therapeutic agent at the tissue site the substrate is implanted or by systemic administration of therapeutic agent to the subject. The binding affinity of the therapeutic agent to the host molecules can be such that the therapeutic agent localizes to the therapeutic agent delivery platform after systematic administration to the subject remains localized at the tissue being treated.

In an example of the present invention a host molecule comprising CD can be made suitable for coupling to at least one surface of a polymer by first converting one of the hydroxyl groups of the CD molecule into a thiol group. This can be done by mixing about 0.300 g of 6 Tosyl CD and about 0.300 g of thiourea at about 1 16.5 molar ratio in a 50 ml round bottom flask. Next about 15 ml of about 80 methanol can be added to the flask. The mixture can then be heated under reflux for about 2 days at about 100 C. The mixture can be evaporated in a vacuum whereafter about 4.5 ml of 100 methanol can be added and refluxed for about 1 hour. The solid can be filtered and dissolved in about 10.35 ml of about 10 NaOH at about 50 C. for about 5 hours. The pH of solution can be adjusted to about 2 using about 10 HCl. Next about 0.750 ml of Trichloroethylene can be added and stirred overnight. The resulting precipitate can then be filtered and washed with water. The precipitate can be evaporated in a vacuum followed by repeated recrystallization from water.

After converting one of the hydroxyl groups of the CD molecule to a thiol group the thiol modified CD molecule can optionally include a bifunctional cross linker such as PMPI. This can be done by dissolving about 0.750 g of EVOH in about 14 ml of DMSO. Next about 50 mg 0.23 mmol of PMPI can be dissolved in about 1 ml of DMSO. This solution of PMPI in DMSO can then be added to the polymer melt. The solution can react for about 3 hours at about room temperature under constant stirring.

About 12.5 mg 0.024 mmol of the thiol modified CD molecule can then be dissolved in about 1.25 ml of about 0.1 M NaOH in DMSO and incubated at about room temperature for approximately 15 minutes. About 17.5 l of about 6 M HCl can then be added in order to neutralize the solution. The solution can be buffered with about 0.25 ml of about 0.5 M sodium phosphate. The pH of the solution can then be adjusted to approximately 7 using about 6 M HCl.

About 10 ml of the EVOH PMPI solution in DMSO can then be removed and placed in a glass vial. The activated thiol modified CD molecule can then be added to the remaining 5 ml of EVOH PMPI solution in DMSO. The solution can react for about 8 hours at about room temperature and under constant stirring. The resulting pEVOH thiol modified CD molecule mixture can then be electrospun into nanofiber meshes as disclosed by Kenawy et al. Electrospinning of poly ethylene co vinyl alcohol fibers 2003 Biomaterials 24 6 907 913.

In another example of the present invention a therapeutic agent delivery system can comprise a polymer coupled with a heparin or heparin sulfate host molecule and a therapeutic guest agent comprising a growth factor such as IL 7. The heparin host molecules can be chemically attached to the polymer or entangled within the polymer so that the heparin molecules do not detach before the IL 7 molecules are released from the heparin molecules. Such a therapeutic agent delivery system may be useful in treating a variety of diseases or conditions. To treat HIV AIDS for example the therapeutic agent delivery system can be administered to a subject who is either infected with or suspected of having HIV AIDS. Once administered to the subject the IL 7 molecules can be degraded at a rate that is slower than the affinity release rate of IL 7 from the heparin molecules. Degradation and release of IL 7 in this manner can augment T cell response and thereby help to prevent or suppress HIV infection AIDS. IL 7 can be periodically re administered to the subject to re fill the heparin host molecules and thereby maintain a substantially uniform release rate of IL 7 into the subject.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method for delivering a therapeutic agent by placing a therapeutic agent delivery system at a desired location. The therapeutic agent delivery system can comprise a therapeutic agent delivery platform. Therapeutic agent delivery platform can have a substrate and at least one host molecule coupled to the substrate. The therapeutic agent delivery system can also comprise a therapeutic guest agent capable of reversibly complexing with the host molecule when administered to the tissue being treated. The therapeutic guest agent may have a degradation rate that is slower than the affinity release rate of the therapeutic guest agent from the host molecule.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method for treating a tissue of a subject may comprise administering a therapeutic agent delivery system to a tissue target site in the subject. The therapeutic agent delivery system can comprise a therapeutic agent delivery platform. Therapeutic agent delivery platform can have a substrate and at least one host molecule coupled to the substrate. The therapeutic agent delivery system can also comprise a therapeutic guest agent capable of reversibly complexing with the host molecule when administered to the tissue being treated. The therapeutic guest agent may have a degradation rate that is slower than the affinity release rate of the therapeutic guest agent from the host molecule.

The target tissue site can comprise any anatomical location of the subject. Examples of target tissue sites can include tissue such as connective tissue epithelium muscle and nervous tissues as well as tumors organs lymph nodes individual cells arteries and veins. Target tissue sites can also comprise intravascular locations such as an intra arterial site as well as intraluminal locations such as a portion of the esophagus or bile duct. The implantable therapeutic agent delivery system can be implanted at the target tissue site using any known surgical transvascular percutaneous and or minimally invasive technique.

In one example the substrate can include a plurality of particles that are formed by electrospinning. Methods for electrospinning monomers to form three dimensional polymer based materials are known in the art. Generally electrospinning uses an electrical charge to form a mat of fine fibers. One setup for electrospinning can consist of a spinneret with a metallic needle a syringe pump a high voltage power supply and a grounded collector. A polymer sol gel composite solution or melt can be loaded into the syringe and this liquid then driven to the needle tip by a syringe pump forming a droplet at the tip. When a voltage is applied to the needle the droplet can be first stretched into a structure called the Taylor cone. If the viscosity of the material is sufficiently high varicose breakup does not occur if it does droplets are electrosprayed and an electrified liquid jet is formed. The jet is can then be elongated and whipped continuously by electrostatic repulsion until it is deposited on the grounded collector. Whipping due to a bending instability in the electrified jet and concomitant evaporation of solvent and in some cases reaction of the materials in the jet with the environment can allow this jet to be stretched to nanometer scale diameters. The elongation by bending instability can result in the fabrication of uniform fibers with nanometer scale diameters.

The therapeutic delivery system can also include a therapeutic guest agent such as paclitaxel that can reversibly complex with the host molecules. It will be appreciated that the therapeutic guest agent can be dispersed on or within the particles before during or after electro spinning.

After forming the particles a therapeutically effective amount of the particles can be implanted in a tissue of the subject. For example a therapeutically effective amount of the particles can be injected into the subject at a target site tissue site. Where the target tissue site is a pulmonary tumor for example the tumoral target site can comprise the tissue of the pulmonary tumor itself. In this case a therapeutically effective amount of the particles can be directly implanted at the tumoral target site via an intratumoral injection. It should be appreciated that the particles can be implanted in the subject via other suitable routes and using other suitable methods as well such as intravenous subcutaneous intraperitoneal transdermal oral and minimally invasive surgical routes.

It should also be appreciated that the particles can be administered to the subject without a carrier or alternatively as part of a pharmaceutically acceptable composition. The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable should be understood to mean a material i.e. a nanoparticle which is not biologically or otherwise undesirable i.e. the material may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition administered to a subject without causing any undesirable biological effects or interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the other components of the composition in which it is contained. When the term pharmaceutically acceptable is used to refer to a pharmaceutical carrier or excipient it is implied that the carrier or excipient has met the required standards of toxicological and manufacturing testing or that it is included on the Inactive Ingredient Guide prepared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

Using a syringe or other similar device the particles can be directly injected into the tissue site of the subject. Where the target tissue is a tumor upon injection into the tumor the particles can selectively accumulate in the tumor tissue due to the high permeability of the tumor vasculature. As the tumor develops the permeability of the tumor can decrease and thereby cause the particles to remain embedded in the tumor tissue. Accumulation of the particles in the tumor tissue can be monitored by CT scan where for example the particles include an imaging agent. Once the particles have been dispersed in the tumor tissue the therapeutic guest agent e.g. paclitaxel molecules can begin to dissociate from the host molecules via molecular affinity interactions i.e. association disassociation kinetics at an affinity release rate that is faster than the degradation rate of the therapeutic guest agent e.g. paclitaxel molecules .

By way of example based on previously calculated dissociation rates of paclitaxel from CD molecules and or by monitoring tumor size i.e. tumor regression a desired amount of paclitaxel can be delivered to the tumor tissue. Either before simultaneous with or after release of paclitaxel molecules from the CD molecules additional paclitaxel molecules can be delivered to the emptied CD molecules. A subsequent intratumoral injection of paclitaxel into the tumor tissue may be performed to re fill the emptied CD molecules. Alternatively a subsequent intravenous injection and or oral administration of paclitaxel can be injected into the subject to re fill the emptied CD molecules. Tumor size can again be assessed and periodic doses of paclitaxel continued until the tumor has partially or entirely regressed. By administering particles capable of reversibly complexing with paclitaxel paclitaxel or any other therapeutic guest agent can be localized to the tumor tissue and thereby avoid the unwanted side effects often associated with repeated systemic drug administration.

In some embodiments the delivery platform is coated on an implantable device which is subsequently implanted in the subject to provide sustained release. The coating generally comprises the substrate e.g. polymer that carries the host molecule e.g. cyclodextrin . Examples of implantable devices include various biocompatible medical devices such as screws stents pacemakers etc.

In another example of the present invention the therapeutic agent delivery platform can comprise an antibiotic filled bandage that can be applied to a wound of a subject e.g. following a surgical procedure . To prepare the bandage according to the present invention at least one host molecule such as a CD molecule can be complexed with at least one surface of a polymer that can then be applied to the bandage. As described above CD molecules can be made suitable for coupling to at least one surface of a polymer by converting one of the hydroxyl groups of the CD molecules to a thiol group. The thiol modified CD molecules can then be conjugated to bulk pEVOH using a bifunctional crosslinker such as PMPI. The pEVOH thiol modified CD molecule mixture can then be mixed with a therapeutic agent such as vancomycin and electrospun into nanofiber meshes as described above . The nanofiber meshes can then be electrosprayed onto at least one surface of the bandage.

The bandage may then be placed on or around the surgical wound of the subject. Once the bandage has been securely positioned on or around the wound the vancomycin molecules can begin to dissociate from the CD molecules via molecular affinity i.e. association dissociation kinetics and permeate into and or around the surgical wound. The vancomycin molecules can kill any bacteria present at the wound and or prevent future bacterial infections at the wound site.

Based on previously calculated diffusion rates of vancomycin from CD molecules and or by monitoring the wound site for infection and or healing an amount of vancomycin can be delivered to the bandage as needed. Either before simultaneous with or after release of vancomycin molecules from the CD molecules additional vancomycin can be delivered to the emptied CD molecules. For example a subsequent topical administration of vancomycin directly onto the bandage may be done to re fill the emptied CD molecules. The wound site can again be assessed and periodic doses of vancomycin continued until the wound site has partially or entirely healed. By providing the above described bandage to the wound site repeated changing of wound dressings can be avoided or minimized by periodically dosing the bandage with vancomycin.

In another example of the present invention may comprise coating implants such as but not limited to orthopedic implants with a therapeutic delivery platform. The therapeutic delivery platform may be a gel based platform. The therapeutic delivery platform uses a CD based delivery system to deliver antibiotics at a desired rate. Unlike previous antibiotic coatings the CD based therapeutic delivery platform may be thinner than previous coatings and still deliver a therapeutic guest agent such as but not limited to antibiotics for a much longer duration than previous coatings. The therapeutic delivery platform may deliver a therapeutic guest agent such as but not limited to antibiotics for more than a month. The thinness of the therapeutic delivery platform is thin enough to not interfere with the fixation of orthopedic implants such as but not limited to pins screws K wires and external fixation pins. This specific example provides the ability to prevent early infection at least 1 month of any orthopedic implant and may be able to prevent infection for much longer periods of time. The therapeutic delivery platform may be modified to increase stiffness to better enable the coating of the therapeutic guest platform on the orthopedic implant.

A specific example of a therapeutic delivery platform that may be used in the above example are CD and dextrose based polymers that are synthesized with lysine triisocyanate acting as the crosslinker. The polymer stiffness can easily be adjusted by adjusting crosslinker ratio. Polymers are in situ polymerized onto the fixation pins or any desired orthopedic implant. Even though polymerization occurs rapidly under upon heating under about 10 minutes the reaction is allowed to proceed for about 45 minutes. An antibiotic such as but not limited to novobiocin is then loaded into the crosslinked polymer disks using a solvent solution absorption method. Novobiocin may be prepared in dimethylformamide. The antibiotic may be loaded into the coated pins by incubating the samples in the solvent at room temperature for about 4 days. The antibiotic loaded pins are then vacuum dried at room temperature.

In another example the present invention may be used to slowly deliver a therapeutic guest agent such as but not limited to anti inflammatory drugs and steroids to treat joint pain arthritis lower back pain and similar types of ailments. In the present example the therapeutic delivery platform may be modified to have a low stiffness to enable the therapeutic delivery platform to be in a gel form. The therapeutic guest agents may be placed within the host molecules such as but not limited to CD and then may be placed within viscous gels which enables the therapeutic delivery platform to be injected into the desired location such as but not limited to joint space. The present invention allows for sustained therapy with less frequent injections because of the slow release of the therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the delivery platform provides a sustained release of the guest agent for at least 1 week at least 2 weeks at least 3 weeks at least 4 weeks or for at least two months.

It will be appreciated that the present invention may find application to any number of other diseases or disease conditions other than those described above. For example the present invention may have utility in treating infectious diseases autoimmune diseases cancers vaccinating against various diseases intraocular diseases and gene delivery gene therapy.

Other examples of diseases or conditions treatable by the present invention can include but are not limited to cardiovascular diseases e.g. atherosclerosis coronary artery disease hypertension hyperlipidemia cardiomyopathy volume retention neurodegenerative diseases e.g. Alzheimer s disease Pick s disease dementia delirium Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis neuroinflammatory diseases e.g. viral meningitis viral encephalitis fungal meningitis fungal encephalitis multiple sclerosis charcot joint myasthenia gravis orthopedic diseases e.g. osteoarthritis inflammatory arthritis reflex sympathetic dystrophy Paget s disease osteoporosis lymphoproliferative diseases e.g. lymphoma lymphoproliferative disease Hodgkin s disease autoimmune diseases e.g. Graves disease hashimoto s takayasu s disease kawasaki s diseases arthritis scleroderma CREST syndrome allergies dermatitis Henoch schlonlein purpura goodpasture syndrome autoimmune thyroiditis myasthenia gravis Reiter s disease lupus rheumatoid arthritis inflammatory and infectious diseases e.g. sepsis viral and fungal infections wound healing tuberculosis infection human immunodeficiency virus pulmonary diseases e.g. tachypnea fibrotic diseases such as cystic fibrosis interstitial lung disease desquamative interstitial pneumonitis non specific interstitial pneumonitis lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis usual interstitial pneumonitis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis transplant related side effects such as rejection transplant related tachycardia renal failure typhlitis transplant related bowel dysmotility transplant related hyperreninemia sleep disorders e.g. insomnia obstructive sleep apnea central sleep apnea gastrointestinal disorders e.g. hepatitis xerostomia bowel dysmotility peptic ulcer disease constipation post operative bowel dysmotility inflammatory bowel disease endocrine disorders e.g. hypothyroidism hyperglycemia diabetes obesity syndrome X cardiac rhythm disorders e.g. sick sinus syndrome bradycardia tachycardia QT interval prolongation arrhythmias atrial arrhythmias ventricular arrhythmias genitourinary disorders e.g. bladder dysfunction renal failure hyperreninemia hepatorenal syndrome renal tubular acidosis erectile dysfunction cancer fibrosis skin disorders e.g. wrinkles cutaneous vasculitis psoriasis aging associated diseases and conditions e.g. shydragers multi system atrophy osteoporosis age related inflammation conditions degenerative disorders autonomic dysregulation diseases e.g. headaches concussions post concussive syndrome coronary syndromes coronary vasospasm neurocardiogenic syncope neurologic diseases such as epilepsy seizures stress bipolar disorder migraines and chronic headaches conditions related to pregnancy such as amniotic fluid embolism pregnancy related arrhythmias fetal stress fetal hypoxia eclampsia preeclampsia conditions that cause hypoxia hypercarbia hypercapnia acidosis acidemia such as chronic obstructive lung disease emphysema cardiogenic pulmonary edema non cardiogenic pulmonary edema neurogenic edema pleural effusion adult respiratory distress syndrome pulmonary renal syndromes interstitial lung diseases pulmonary fibrosis and any other chronic lung disease sudden death syndromes e.g. sudden infant death syndrome sudden adult death syndrome vascular disorders e.g. acute pulmonary embolism chronic pulmonary embolism deep venous thrombosis venous thrombosis arterial thrombosis coagulopathy aortic dissection aortic aneurysm arterial aneurysm myocardial infarction coronary vasospasm cerebral vasospasm mesenteric ischemia arterial vasospasm malignant hypertension primary and secondary pulmonary hypertension reperfusion syndrome ischemia cerebral vascular accident cerebral vascular accident and transient ischemic attacks pediatric diseases such as respiratory distress syndrome bronchopulmonary dysplasia Hirschprung disease congenital megacolon aganglionosis ocular diseases such as glaucoma and the like.

One aspect of the invention provides a method of treating cancer in a subject in need thereof by placing a therapeutic guest agent delivery platform at a desired location in the subject. The delivery platform includes a polymer substrate at least one cyclodextrin host molecule coupled to the substrate and an anticancer agent that is reversibly coupled to the host molecule. The anticancer agent is then allowed to be released from the host molecule at the desired location. Subsequently the therapeutic guest agent delivery platform can be reloaded by contacting the therapeutic agent delivery platform with additional anticancer agent. Typically in the case of treating a tumor the desired location is a tumor site. In some embodiments the release rate of the anticancer agent is adjusted by complexing a tuning molecule to one or both of the anticancer agent and the host molecule.

As used herein the terms tumor or cancer refer to a condition characterized by anomalous rapid proliferation of abnormal cells of a subject. The abnormal cells often are referred to as neoplastic cells which are transformed cells that can form a solid tumor. The term tumor refers to an abnormal mass or population of cells e.g. two or more cells that result from excessive or abnormal cell division whether malignant or benign and pre cancerous and cancerous cells. Malignant tumors are distinguished from benign growths or tumors in that in addition to uncontrolled cellular proliferation they can invade surrounding tissues and can metastasize.

Cancer is generally named based on its tissue of origin. There are several main types of cancer. Carcinoma is cancer that begins in the skin or in tissues that line or cover internal organs. Sarcoma is cancer that begins in bone cartilage fat muscle blood vessels or other connective or supportive tissue. Leukemia is cancer that starts in blood forming tissue such as the bone marrow and causes large numbers of abnormal blood cells to be produced and enter the bloodstream. Lymphoma and multiple myeloma are cancers that begin in the cells of the immune system. Examples of types of cancer that can be treated using the delivery system of the present invention include cancer is selected from the group consisting of leukemia non small cell lung cancer colon cancer central nervous system cancer melanoma ovarian cancer renal cancer prostate cancer and breast cancer. In some embodiments the cancer being treated is glioblastoma multiforme.

The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. It is to be understood that the particular examples materials amounts and procedures are to be interpreted broadly in accordance with the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth herein.

Glioblastoma multiforme GBM which involves rapid neoplasms of glial cells is the most common form of glioma affecting approximately 10 000 people each year in the U.S. The most malignant among all gliomas GBM is listed as a grade IV neoplasm according to world health organization classification. As the word multiforme might suggest GBM exhibits heterogeneity in both pathology and response to treatment contributing to its reputation as one of the most difficult cancers to treat. G. Jacob E. B. Dinca J Med Life 2 386 2009 Most GBM patients die due to cerebral edema and increased intracranial pressure within one year of diagnosis. Despite multimodal treatment with surgical resection followed by chemo and radiotherapy the prognosis for GBM patients has not improved significantly in the past two decades with a medium survival of 14.6 months and 3 year survival rate of only 10 .

The dismal prognosis partly stems from the highly infiltrative nature of GBM rendering total resection impossible and subsequent recurrences inevitable. Wong et al. J Clin Oncol 17 2572 1999 . Postresection chemotherapy is a standard adjuvant or stand alone treatment option for recurrent GBM rGBM . However there is a lack of effective methods to administer chemotherapeutic agents to the brain. With the exception of few drugs most notably temozolomide systemically administered chemotherapeutic agents are ineffective due to high toxicity and the blood brain barrier BBB preventing their entries into the brain. To bypass the BBB localized chemotherapy can be provided directly at the site of tumor resection via drug carrying nanoparticles Allard et al. Biomaterials 30 2302 2009 and polymeric implants among which the carmustine laden Gliadel wafer is the most extensively characterized. Sipos et al. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 39 383 1997 . Although studies have shown that Gliadel wafers increase 6 month survival by 50 the prognosis for GBM patients remains poor. Based on two phase III clinical trials Gliadel wafers compared to placebos increased the mean overall survival of GBM patients by a mere 2 months. Westphal et al. Acta Neurochir Wien 148 269 2006 .

Aside from the well known toxicity of carmustine to healthy brain tissue Gliadel wafers also lack the ability to provide chemotherapy for extended periods of time. Recurrences of GBM can occur any time between 10 180 weeks after the initial diagnosis while Gliadel releases near 90 of its loaded carmustine in approximately 1 week prompting treatment ineffective against recurrences that may occur thereafter. Fung et al. Cancer Res 58 672 1998 . A few recent studies were conducted to address some of the issues associated with Gliadel wafers. For example DOX loaded polymer wafers were developed to demonstrate the feasibility of using an alternative chemotherapeutic agent. Lesniak et al. Anticancer Res 25 3825 2005 In another study poly lactic co glycolic acid microspheres were used to extend the effective delivery of carmustine to 3 weeks. Gil Alegre et al. J Microencapsul 25 561 2008 . Unfortunately these current studies offered only incremental improvements and not significant upgrades to Gliadel wafers. The dominant mechanism governing drug release in these systems was diffusion which was characterized by a burst effect where the majority of the loaded drugs released after the first few days thus limiting effective treatment to short periods of time. Similarly carmustine loaded poly lactic co glycolic acid microspheres and DOX loaded PCCP SA wafers exhibited significant burst release effects.

In search of a smarter implantable system the inventors engineered a polymer that can serve as both a drug delivery vehicle and as a reloadable reservoir. If tumor relapses after depletion of the initial dose the sponge like polymer with specific affinity towards the drug is reloaded via local injections of additional doses deemed appropriate for the recurrence.

To test the efficacy of the polymer glioblastoma multiforme GBM was chosen as the disease model due to GBM s poor prognosis and its almost inevitable recurrences. Wong et al. J Clin Oncol 17 2572 1999 . GBM relapses with varying tumor volume and time of recurrence which can range between 10 to 182 weeks after initial diagnosis. Gliadel a commercially available implantable wafer for GBM treatment can only deliver a fixed amount of drug at an effective concentration for up to 4 weeks. Fung et al. Pharm Res 13 671 1996 . As a result the dose and therapeutic period of Gliadel are restricted by the number of implanted wafers and the time of implantation respectively. Hereafter the inventors demonstrate that their versatile polymer implant is capable of delivering an anticancer drug doxorubicin DOX at a sustained rate over 8 weeks which was found to be more therapeutically effective than rapid burst delivery. In addition it is shown that the polymer was reloadable via simple local injections further prolonging the therapeutic window and allowing the therapy to be tailored to tumor recurrence of the individual patient.

In many embodiments of the reloadable polymer of the invention cyclodextrin CD a cyclic oligosaccharide with a hydrophilic outer shell and relatively hydrophobic inner cavity is used as the host molecule. Through the formation of inclusion complexes with small molecules CD in its monomer form is used in pharmaceutical industry to improve solubility of hydrophobic drugs. Leveraging CD s affinity towards certain drugs including DOX our laboratory developed processes using 1 6 diisocynatohexane HDI to crosslink CD into an insoluble polymer which served as the platform for both the delivery and reloading of DOX. Thatiparti et al. Biomaterials 31 2335 2010 .

Two types of CD were examined and CD 7 and 8 member oligosaccharides respectively which have different cavity diameters and potentially varying degrees of affinity towards DOX. Surface plasmon resonance and fluorometry studies showed that the association constant K between DOX and CD was higher than that between DOX and CD which is most likely attributed to a better fit of the bulky anthraquinonic nucleus of DOX in the larger CD cavity. Husain et al. Appl Spectrosc 46 652 1992 . See Table 1. To verify the formation of inclusion complex between DOX and CD Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy was performed on grounded CD polymer DOX and grounded CD polymer loaded with DOX. Peaks between 700 900 cm which represents the aromatic rings on DOX were mostly masked in the spectrum of CD loaded with DOX suggesting formation of inclusion complex. As a non affinity control a third type of polymer isocyanate crosslinked dextran was synthesized using a similar process as that for CD. While sharing the same monosaccharide unit as CD dextran is linear or branched in structure so no inclusion complexes would form with DOX. Flory Huggins interaction parameter calculations revealed a 14 times higher between DOX and dextran than between DOX and the central cavity of CD confirming the lack of interaction and affinity between DOX and dextran.

To assess whether the affinity based polymer can be effectively reloaded a competitive reloading assay was designed by embedding a CD and a dextran polymer disk in opposite ends of an agarose tissue phantom in a closed environment and injected DOX into the center to allow the drug to freely diffuse. Top down fluorescence imaging of the phantom showed significantly higher intensity of DOX in CD than dextran after 54 hr. In a photograph of the phantom taken 54 hr post injection of DOX the more intense red color indicates the drug showed higher loading in CD than in dextran was attributed to differences in affinity. In a higher throughput assay using image analysis we examined how different crosslinking ratios CD s glucopyranoside unit HDI affect reloading. shows that the experimental condition resulting in the highest and fastest percent reloading of DOX was loosely crosslinked 1 0.16 CD polymers n 3 . Finally we implanted empty CD 1 0.16 and dextran polymers n 5 subcutaneously in the flanks of nude mice to test reloading in vivo in the absence of tumors. At two time points that were one week apart subcutaneous injections of 100 ng of DOX were performed near the polymer. For 48 hr after each injection reloading was monitored using fluorescence imaging. shows higher photon flux from CD than dextran polymers after both injections. In both polymers similar drops in flux during the first 6 hr post injection were likely due to effects of systemic drug clearance. Thereafter however the decrease in flux appeared more gradual in CD than dextran suggesting the affinity between CD and DOX facilitated reloading and potentially a new window of drug release. At the end of the 2reloading period all polymers were surgically removed and extracted the remaining DOX in dimethyl sulfoxide. Significantly more DOX was recovered from CD than dextran polymer .

The inventors hypothesized that in addition to the ability to be reloaded the affinity based polymer could release DOX at a sustained rate over extended period of time similar to their observations of using this polymer to deliver other small molecule drugs. T. R. Thatiparti H. A. von Recum Macromolecular Bioscience 10 82 2010 . Polymer implants such as Gliadel release the majority of its loaded drug within the first few days a characteristic typical of most drug delivery systems which are dependent on drug diffusion alone. In affinity based polymers an additional mechanism formation of inclusion complex between DOX and CD can modulate drug release and essentially extend the therapeutic period of the implant. To test the hypothesis CD CD and dextran n 3 were loaded in 4 ml of 10 mg ml DOX solution for 72 hr before transferring to 2 ml of cell culture medium for release at 37 C. with gentle agitation. At predetermined time points two samples were aliquoted from each release medium one for quantifying DOX release via fluorescence spectroscopy and the other for applying to a cancer cell line in vitro to test for bioactivity of the released DOX. The release medium is then replaced with fresh medium in order to maintain sink conditions. As shown in the concentration of DOX release from CD was 2 M for 61 days. In contrast DOX released from CD and dextran rapidly dropped ICfor a longer time than CD and dextran were capable. The bioactivity of the released DOX was then confirmed by treating Lewis lung carcinoma cells with aliquots from previously mentioned release samples. shows that cell killing was maintained for much longer when released from CD than other polymers which was likely due to the steady release of DOX from CD .

In vivo efficacy of delivery from the affinity based polymer was validated in two steps 1 demonstration of tumor clearing from affinity based delivery and 2 confirmation that in vivo reloading shown above was capable of clearing tumors. In demonstrating tumor clearing a xenograft model of human GBM in mice was used. The inventors injected 0.5 10luciferase expressing U 87 MG luc2 cells in the flanks of nude mice until tumors reached 50 mm at which point they surgically implanted DOX laden 5 mg polymer 13 CD n 6 and CD polymer disks n 7 directly underneath the tumors. Empty CD polymer disks n 6 were implanted as non drug control. A Kaplan Meier survival curve in shows more than half of the tumor bearing mice implanted with DOX laden CD showed complete tumor regression compared to no surviving mice implanted with DOX laden 13 CD Log Rank test p

To test the therapeutic efficacy of in vivo reloading a treatment model was developed in mice to mimic resection surgery used in human GBM patients. In mice with size matched tumors 8 mm in diameter a 6 mm biopsy punch was used to resect the central region of the tumor creating a void where we then implanted empty CD or dextran polymer disks n 5 . Mice implanted with CD and no refilling did not survive past day 12 post implantation indicating that resection alone was an insufficient treatment. Mice implanted with dextran and injected with 100 ng of DOX for potential refilling did not survive past day 14 post implantation indicating that the total drug amount was insufficient in one high dose for treatment. While mice implanted with CD and injected with the same refilling dose resulted in 60 of the mice tumor free after 8 weeks. Additional experiments demonstrated that no recurrence occurred up to 9 months data not shown . At this time point approximately 5 ng of DOX polymer disk was extracted from CD removed from euthanized mice while no traceable DOX was found in dextran polymers. These results confirm the need for sustained dosing and indicate that reloading affinity based polymers for further delivery effect was possible significantly improving therapeutic efficacy of post resection cancer therapy Log Rank test CD vs. dextran p

Implantable drug delivery systems have the advantage of delivering predictable amount of drug to desired locations in the body while minimizing systemic exposure. This affinity based polymer is an especially attractive system with its ability to not only deliver drugs at a sustained rate for extend period of time but also to allow for multiple periods of drug reloading as the therapeutic treatment mandates. The potential implications for cancer therapy are reduced cost and post operative complications associated with multiple resection and implantation surgeries. Due to CD s ability to form inclusion complexes with a variety of drugs the affinity based polymer platform is also a viable option for treatment of other human diseases that require long term therapy.

Based on specific polymer weight to solvent volume percentages and crosslinking ratios and CD and dextran pre polymers were dissolved in DMF or DMSO prior to the addition of the crosslinker HDI. After mixing under room temperature for 1 min the solution was then poured into a 10 cm Teflon dish and heat cured at 70 C. CD and dextran polymers were formed after approximately 2 hr and 4 hr of heating respectively. Thin disks of approximately 10 mm in diameter were punched out and washed sequentially with first the solvent then a 1 1 solvent to water mixture and finally water for 24 hr to remove unreacted products. All gels were UV irradiated for 10 min prior to use.

When DOX a fluorescent compound forms an inclusion complex with CD the fluorescent signal is enhanced 1 due to diminished intermolecular quenching. Increasing the amount of and CD monomers 0 mM 16 mM were added to a constant concentration of DOX in cell culture medium at 37 C. n 3 . Aliquots were taken for fluorescence measurements Synergy H1 with an excitation and emission wavelength of 498 nm and 590 nm respectively. Based on a modified Benesi Hildebrand equation nonlinear regression analysis was performed in MATLAB to estimate the association constants K .

Surface plasmon resonance SPR spectroscopy was performed on Biacore 100 to characterize the affinity between DOX and and CD. 6 NH and CD monomers were immobilized onto CM5 sensor chips using amine coupling chemistry. To optimize immobilization conditions pH scouting was performed via suspending 0.1 mM of 6 NH and CD monomers in various pH buffers borate 8.5 HBS N 7.4 PBS 7.4 acetate 5 and injecting the suspensions over the sensor chip surface. The carboxylic groups on the sensor chip surface were activated via n injection of 0.4 M EDC 0.1 M NHS. Surface immobilization in flow cell 2 proceeded with an injection of 0.1 mM of 6 amino 6 deoxy or CD monomers suspended in the previously determined optimal buffer borate 8.5. Blank immobilization was performed in flow cell 1 which was used as a reference flow cell. Finally unreacted reaction sites in both flow cells were inactivated by an injection of 1 M ethanolamine pH 8.5 . All injections were performed at 10 l ml for 7 min.

DOX samples at 1 0.5 0.25 0.125 and 0.0625 mM dissolved in HBS N buffer pH 7.4 were injected over the CD immobilized surface with a 2 min association and 4 min dissociation time for affinity studies. Injections of 50 mM sodium hydroxide was used to wash off any bound DOX and regenerate the sensor chip surface in between sample injections. Successful regeneration was confirmed by examining the baseline signal prior to each injection and that after regeneration. Linear regions of the DOX concentration vs. SPR response plots were identified and additional runs were made to estimate Kbetween DOX and and CD using preset models in Biacore Evaluation Software.

Inclusion complex formation between DOX and CD was confirmed using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy BioRad FTS 575C . CD polymer was loaded in a 1 mg ml DOX in PBS solution for 72 hr prior to air drying for 72 hr. Pure CD polymer was dried similarly. Then samples of grounded pure CD polymer pure DOX and grounded DOX loaded CD polymer were incorporated into a thin potassium bromide pellet prior to scanning. The scans were run with wavelengths from 600 cmto 4000 cm.

The non affinity control used in this study was dextran. While sharing the same monosaccharide unit as CD dextran is linear or branched in structure so no inclusion complexes would form with DOX. In order to confirm whether dextran would be a suitable non affinity control Flory Huggins interaction parameter was calculated between DOX and CD its inclusion complex forming cavity and DOX and dextran. Although parameter had been used recently to optimize the design of drug delivery polymer systems Tian et al. Mol Pharmaceut 10 236 2013 it was originally developed to characterize interactions in mixtures of small molecules polymer solvent systems and polymer blends. It can be calculated based on Hildebrand s solubility parameter 

Solubility parameters for polymers are usually calculated using group contribution methods based on the repeating unit of the polymer. Hence in this study s for CD CD CD and dextran polymers were all calculated based on their respective monomer units.

To assess whether the affinity based polymer can be effectively reloaded a competitive reloading assay was designed by embedding a CD and a dextran polymer in opposite ends of a tissue phantom in a closed environment one well of a 6 well tissue culture plate and inject 100 ng of DOX in the center to allow the drug to freely diffuse . The tissue phantom consisted of 0.5 agarose in order to simulation an in vivo environment. Top down fluorescence imaging using the well scan mode in a plate reader was performed on the tissue phantom at selected time points for 54 hr. The scanning was done from left to right and top to down.

The above method is sufficient for examining the dynamics of reloading in detail however the setup is complex and the scanning time was 45 min per image. A modified setup was employed to allow a larger scale experiment to be conducted. Briefly affinity based or dextran polymers were first placed on the bottom of 24 well plates and then covered in 0.5 agarose. Similarly top down fluorescence imaging using the well scan mode 11 11 equally spaced scanning points was performed on the 24 well plate using Synergy H1 with an excitation and emission wavelength of 49 nm and 59 nm respectively.

The goal of image registration was to efficiently analyze the reloading data by distinguishing the pixels that represented the polymer from those that represented the tissue phantom. First raw fluorescence image data 11 11 pixels were extracted using MATLAB. A grayscale display range was defined with a high and low value. The low value was displayed as pure white indicating no DOX. The high value was displayed as pure black which was based on the highest pixel intensity value found in these experiments. Next the pixels representing the tissue phantom were distinguished from the pixels representing the polymer via 2D image registration algorithm developed using MATALB. First a template image with predefined areas of both tissue phantom lighter shades of grey and polymer darker shades of grey was constructed. The polymer consisted of pixels of darker shades of grey than those of the tissue phantom this was a representation of the well at the endpoint of a reloading experiment assuming the polymer would exhibit higher intensity of signal due to loaded DOX. Then an input image with unknown areas for both tissue phantom and polymer was registered against the template image. The input image was systematically shifted in both the x and y direction with each iteration of shifting 2D correlation between the two images was calculated. The registration algorithm then searched for scale parameters in both the x and y direction that would maximize 2D correlation between the two images ultimately resulting in an overlaid image. The resulting scale parameters were then applied to the input image to determine the pixels representing the previously unknown areas of polymer in the tissue phantom.

In order for the algorithm to work properly an assumption was made that the area of the polymer was the same among all samples. This is a valid assumption because all polymers were formed under a 10 mm diameter metal punch prior to use. The accuracy of the algorithm was confirmed by randomly selecting a sample and manually checking the registration results.

Percent reloading of DOX into polymer is defined as mass of DOX loaded into polymer mass of injected DOX 100 . Mass of DOX loaded in the polymer however cannot be simply calculated based on calibration curve of the polymer loaded with different amounts of DOX. It is well known that DOX exhibits significant self quenching at concentrations 10 M. This phenomenon was verified experimentally with calibration curves and also reported in literature. Chaires et al. Biochemistry Us 21 3927 1982 . Hence it was inconvenient to determine mass of DOX loaded in the polymer if the concentration exceeded 10 M. Alternatively because the concentration of DOX is much lower in the tissue phantom a calibration curve was developed based on varying DOX concentrations in tissue phantoms. Mass of DOX loaded into the polymer can then be calculated by mass of injected DOX mass of DOX in the tissue phantom .

The polymer synthesis conditions CD 1 0.16 that yielded the best percent reloading were used to fabricate the polymers used in the in vivo study. First we implanted empty CD 1 0.16 and dextran polymers n 5 subcutaneously in the flanks of nude mice under gas anesthesia 2.5 isoflurane . At two time points that were one week apart subcutaneous injections of 100 ng of DOX were performed near the polymer. To avoid skin lesions the dose was limited to 100 ng. For 48 hr after each injection reloading was monitored using fluorescence imaging with Xenogen IVIS equipped with a DsRed filter of which the excitation and emission ranges overlap with that of DOX. The exposure time was 0.5 sec and the aperture was f8. Fluorescence signal from a drawn region of interest ROI was expressed in terms photon flux photons sec and obtained using Living Image Software. All mice were placed on wheat based diets to limit the effects of autofluorescence.

 CD CD and dextran polymers n 3 were loaded in 4 ml of a 10 mg ml DOX solution for 72 hr at which point equilibrium was reached. Before transferring the loaded polymers for release each sample was rinsed briefly with PBS to rid the potential DOX that had accumulated on the surface of the polymer. This was meant to minimize the possibility of an artificial burst release. For in vitro release the DOX loaded polymers were placed in 2 ml of DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum at 37 C. under gentle agitation. Instead of the commonly used PBS we chose to use cell culture medium to better mimic the in vivo environment. DOX loading was characterized in an independent set of experiments involving extraction of similarly loaded polymers n 3 using DMSO. The average of the total extracted amount was assumed to be the total amount of DOX loaded into respective polymers and used for percent release calculations. At predetermined time points two samples were aliquoted from each release medium one for quantifying DOX release via fluorescence spectroscopy ex 498 nm em 590 nm and the other for applying to a cancer cell line in vitro to test for bioactivity of the released DOX. The release medium was then replaced with fresh medium in order to maintain sink condition.

100 l of human Lewis Lung Carcinoma cells 7500 cells well were cultured in 96 well plates in DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum and 1 penicillin G sodium and streptomycin sulfate. After 24 hr the medium was replaced by 100 l of DOX containing medium that was previously collected from the release medium of CD and dextran polymers at selected time points n 3 . These previous samples were protected from light and stored at 4 C. until use. After another 24 hr incubation 20 l of a 5 mg ml MTT solution was added to each well. The cells were incubated for 3 hr and the medium was then replaced by 200 l of DMSO. After 30 min incubation the plate was read using Synergy H1 with an absorbance wavelength of 590 nm. The results were normalized to readings from a set of wells with cells treated with no DOX which represented 100 survival. Percent cell death was defined as 1 percent survival.

A similar procedure was used when testing the cytoxicity of DOX against U 87 MG a human glioblastoma cell line. However instead of previously collected DOX solution DOX solutions at desired concentrations were made fresh for this assay.

U 87 MG luc2 cells a luciferase expressing human glioblastoma cell line were cultured in DMEM supplemented with 2 mM L glutamine 100 units ml penicillin G sodium 100 g ml streptomycin sulfate 0.25 g ml amphotericin B 1 mM sodium pyruvate and 10 fetal bovine serum prior to use in animal studies. Tumors were induced via subcutaneous injections of 0.5 10U 87 MG luc2 cells into the right flanks of 6 8 week old female athymic nude mice. All animal experiments were reviewed and approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee protocol 2011 0171 .

Tumors diameter reached approximately 4 5 mm on day 28 day 32 post inoculation at which point DOX laden 5 mg polymer CD n 6 and CD polymers n 7 were surgically implanted directly underneath the tumors. Empty CD polymers n 6 were implanted as controls. While under gas anesthesia 2.5 isoflurane incisions of 1 cm were made 5 mm away from the tumor prior to implantation of polymers to ensure wound healing would not interfere with tumor growth. Wounds were closed using EZ clips.

Tumor growth was monitored via bioluminescence imaging with Xenogen IVIS. 20 minutes prior to imaging with Xenogen mice received intraperitoneal injections of 200 l of 15 mg mL D luciferin 100 l on each side . D luciferin potassium salt was dissolved in DPBS. For bioluminescence imaging exposure time was set to be 0.5 min and the aperture set to be f8. The bioluminescence signal from a drawn region of interest ROI was expressed in terms photon flux photons sec and obtained using Living Image Software. In addition to bioluminescence imaging fluorescence imaging described earlier was performed on mice at each time point to monitor the DOX loaded polymers.

Tumor volume was estimated based on digital caliper measurement. Tumor shape was assumed to be a hemiellipsoid volume was calculated by 

Samples of tumor tissue were obtained prior to euthanizing mice. Tumor tissues are fixed in 10 formalin overnight and transferred to into PBS. After mechanized processing overnight the tissues were then embedded in paraffin. 5 m sections were sliced and then air dry. After melting off the paraffin the slides were first stained with two xylenes to remove any remaining paraffin and then rehydrated through graded ethanols to stain in hematoxylin. The slides are then taken through graded ethanols to eosin. Finally slides were rinsed with five changes of 100 ethanol and two changes of xylene.

To test the therapeutic efficacy of in vivo reloading a treatment model was developed in mice to mimic resection surgery followed by Gliadel implantation in human GBM patients. In mice with size matched tumors 8 mm in diameter a 6 mm biopsy punch was used to resect the central region of the tumor creating a void where we then implanted empty CD or dextran polymers n 5 . Mice were allowed to recover from surgery for 4 days. Then 100 ng of DOX was injected near CD or dextran polymers. Vehicle injections of DPBS were also performed in another set of mice n 5 implanted with empty CD polymers. Tumor progression and the polymers were then monitored using similar methods described earlier.

The mechanism controlling the rate of release in a typical polymer delivery system is primarily based on diffusion with solubility also being a factor for some active agents. A number of researchers have added free cyclodextrin to polymer delivery systems to increase the solubility of a drug being delivered by the system. Accordingly earlier efforts to use cyclodextrin in polymeric delivery systems resulted in faster delivery of the drug compared with similar systems lacking the cyclodextrin. In these cases the cyclodextrin would leave the polymer delivery system and continue to surround the drug with a cyclodextrin cage to improve solubility of the drug. The present invention on the other hand is generally directed to slowing down the rate of release of the drug by keeping the drug within the delivery system and holding it in place with the cyclodextrin CD pocket. The rate of release for drug from a delivery system in which cyclodextrin remains associated with the delivery system is dependent on both the rate that drug diffuses out of the device and the rate at which drug is able to escape from the CD pocket.

The inventors have also made the unexpected discovery that varying the amount of CD to dextran which is a chemical similar to CD but is incapable of forming affinity complexes had a significant effect on the rate of drug release from the drug delivery system. This appeared to be due to the fact that a lot of CD pockets had to be present for there to be a change in release rate that relies on drug affinity. In a blending study a blend of 75 CD still had about the same release rate as compositions having fewer pockets. However at about 90 pockets a markedly slower release rate was seen. In other compositions the exact ratio of CD to dextran required to show slower affinity based release changed depending on the chemistry but for an affinity release profile to be seen a large number of CD pockets had to be present.

The results of the experiments directed to showing the amount of CD necessary to provide affinity based release are shown in . As shown in attaching CD as a pendant group to a polyvinyl alcohol backbone resulted in no detectable differences in release with substitution ratios up to 15 CD which was the highest amount of CD that could be incorporated into this type of polymer. However as shown in at sufficiently high levels incorporation of CD into a polymer will result in affinity based release. In the results of replacing CD with chemically similar dextran which lacks the capacity to form affinity inclusions can be seen. As 75 CD the release rate from the polymer is similar to that of pure dextran i.e. you see non affinity based release. However at 90 CD and 10 dextran an affinity based release profile is seen.

The complete disclosure of all patents patent applications and publications and electronically available materials cited herein are incorporated by reference. The foregoing detailed description and examples have been given for clarity of understanding only. No unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom. The invention is not limited to the exact details shown and described for variations obvious to one skilled in the art will be included within the invention defined by the claims.

