---

title: Non-aqueous electrolyte for lithium-ion battery
abstract: An electrolyte including an alkali metal salt; a polar aprotic solvent; and a triazinane trione; wherein the electrolyte is substantially non-aqueous.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218915&OS=09218915&RS=09218915
owner: UCHICAGO ARGONNE, LLC
number: 09218915
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140304
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 899 722 filed on Oct. 7 2010 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present technology relates in general to the field of lithium rechargeable batteries and more particularly relates to the use of reduction oxidation e.g redox shuttles in electrochemical cells and batteries.

The tremendous advances in science and engineering related to lithium ion batteries have made such batteries the most popular power source for portable electronic devices. Furthermore lithium ion batteries have been proposed for new applications in powering electric and hybrid electric vehicles.

Electrolytes are a ubiquitous and indispensable component of lithium ion batteries. Because the electrolyte is sandwiched between positive and negative electrodes the electrolyte is in close interaction with both electrodes. The interfaces between the electrolyte and the two electrodes often dictate the performance of the cells. In particular the interface between the anode and the is a crucial factor affecting cell performance. The interface is a thin passivation layer also called SEI solid electrolyte interface which is formed during the first charging process and prevents further reaction of the electrolytes on the anode surface. For fuel cells utilizing carbon anodes the formation process is potential dependant and stepwise and is determined by the reactive components of the electrolytes that participate in the formation reactions. Therefore the SEI layer can be tuned to afford better cell performance through the use of various additives.

State of the art electrolytes for lithium ion batteries include lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF as solute and mixtures of cyclic carbonates and linear carbonates as solvents. Ethylene carbonate EC is a cyclic carbonate typically used in electrolytes for the formation of SEI at the surface of the negative electrode. However in many cases the SEI protection from conventional electrolytes with simple formulations such as LiPFin admixtures with EC and linear carbonates is insufficient in lithium ion batteries where the negative electrode materials are carbonaceous materials. For instance when cycling under elevated temperature the capacities of lithium ion batteries can fade very quickly. Another issue occurs when using carbonaceous anodes. Batteries that employ either inexpensive natural graphite a kind of graphite carbon or hard carbon a kind of amorphous non graphite carbon exhibit a larger initial discharge capacity loss and quickly lose capacity in subsequent cycles.

On the other hand EC has a high melting point at about 36 38 C. which limits the performance of lithium ion batteries containing EC based electrolytes in low temperature applications. Thus propylene carbonate PC which has a structure similar to that of EC has been considered to fully or partially replace EC because PC remains in the liquid state over a wide temperature window from 55 C. to 240 C. However LiPF PC based electrolytes are not compatible with graphite electrodes in lithium ion batteries due to the exfoliation of graphite structure by PC intercalation.

The present technology is generally related to substantially non aqueous electrolytes including one or more stabilizing additives the additives themselves and electrochemical devices employing such electrolytes and exhibiting a long cycle life and a high capacity retention for lithium metal. Specifically the present technology provides a non aqueous electrolytic solution having one or more cyclic organic compounds such as triazinane triones and or bicyclic compounds including a succinic anhydride group that improve SEI film formation on disordered graphite electrodes or other carbonaceous electrodes. Such stabilizing additives include among others 1 3 5 triallyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 6 1H 3H 5H trione TTT and 3 oxabicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 2 4 dione OHD and their derivatives. The additives in non aqueous electrolytic solutions may be used in rechargeable batteries reducing or preventing PC intercalation into the carbon electrodes and providing long life and high capacity retention at elevated temperature.

The present technology relates to electrolytes containing stabilizing additives that improve the SEI in electrochemical devices such as lithium ion batteries. More specifically the stabilizing additives of the present technology can form a stable passivation film between electrodes and electrolyte which improves the cycle life of e.g. lithium ion batteries.

In accordance with one aspect of the present technology there are provided electrolytes that include an alkali metal salt a polar aprotic solvent and one or more stabilizing additives. At least one of the stabilizing additives is selected from a triazinane trione and or a bicyclic compound comprising succinic anhydride. The electrolytes are substantially non aqueous i.e. the electrolytes contain either no water or almost no water e.g. 

In some embodiments of the present electrolytes at least one of the stabilizing additives is selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula I and a compound of formula II 

In some embodiments of the present technology R R R Rand Rare independently selected from H F Cl Br I an unsubstituted alkyl or alkenyl group a haloalkyl group an epoxyalkyl group or an alkyl alkenyl or alkoxyalkyl group substituted with a substituent selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate vinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl carbonate and an ester. In some embodiments the ester is acrylate. In others R R R Rand Rare independently selected from H F Cl Br I an unsubstituted C Calkyl group an unsubstituted C Calkenyl group an unsubstituted C Calkynyl group a C Calkyl group substituted with a C Cester group a C Csilylalkyl group a C Csiloxylalkyl group a C Calkoxyalkyl group substituted with an ethylene carbonate group or a C Cepoxy or epoxyalkyl group. In certain embodiments R R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl tert butyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 butenyl acetylenyl 2 propynyl and 3 butynyl. R R and Rmay be the same or different. Rand Rmay also be the same or different. For example Rand Rmay both be H or R R and Rmay each be an allyl group.

The compound of formula II is a bicyclic structure in which the ring including the variable X may have a variety of sizes and chemical structures. For example in addition to the definitions provided above when X has the structure of formula IIIA and n is an integer from 1 to 4 the compound of formula II includes cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl groups. When X has the formula IIIB IIIC IIID or IIIE and n and m are independently 0 or 1 the compound of formula II may include 4 6 member cycloalkenes IIIB 3 5 member cyclic ethers IIIC 5 7 member cyclic carbonates IIID and 5 7 member cyclic anhydrides IIIE .

In some embodiments of the present electrolytes at least one stabilizing additive is selected from the group consisting of

The stabilizing additives may be present in the electrolytes of the present technology at a wide variety of concentrations such as e.g. from 0.0005 wt to 15 wt 30 wt or 50 wt of the electrolyte. In some embodiments the concentration of stabilizing additive ranges from 0.001 wt to 2 wt to 5 wt to 10 wt to 15 wt to 20 wt to 25 wt to 30 wt to 40 wt or to 50 wt . In other embodiments the stabilizing additive ranges from 0.01 wt to 2 wt to 5 wt 10 wt to 15 wt to 20 wt to 25 wt to 30 wt to 40 wt or to 50 wt or from 0.1 wt to 2 wt to 5 wt to 10 wt to 15 wt to 20 wt to 25 wt to 30 wt to 40 wt or to 50 wt . In still other embodiments the concentration of stabilizing additive ranges from 0.01 wt to 0.1 wt to 0.2 wt to 0.5 wt to 1 wt to 2 wt or to 5 wt .

Electrolytes of the present technology may include additional stabilizing additives in addition to at least one compound of Formula I or Formula II. See e.g. co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 857 365 and provisional application Nos. 60 636 636 and 60 647 361. Thus electrolytes of the present technology can include additional stabilizing additives that can be reduced or polymerized on the surface of a negative electrode to form a passivation film on the surface of negative electrode. Likewise inventive electrolytes can include an electrode stabilizing additive that can be oxidized or polymerized on the surface of the positive electrode to form a passivation film on the surface of the positive electrode. In some embodiments electrolytes of the present technology further include mixtures of the two types of electrode stabilizing additives. The additional additives are typically present at a concentration of from 0.001 wt to 8 wt .

Representative additional stabilizing additives include pyridazine vinyl pyridazine quinoline vinyl quinoline pyridine vinyl pyridine indole vinyl indole triethanolamine 1 3 dimethyl butadiene butadiene vinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl carbonate imidazole vinyl imidazole piperidine vinyl piperidine pyrimidine vinyl pyrimidine pyrazine vinyl pyrazine isoquinoline vinyl isoquinoline quinoxaline vinyl quinoxaline biphenyl 1 2 diphenyl ether 1 2 diphenylethane o terphenyl N methylpyrrole naphthalene 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane or a mixture of any two or more thereof.

Other stabilizing additives suitable for use in the electrolytes of the present technology include substituted or unsubstituted spirocyclic hydrocarbons containing at least one oxygen atom and at least one alkenyl or alkynyl group. For example such stabilizing additives include those having Formula V 

Representative examples of Formula V include but are not limited to 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane or a mixture of any two or more thereof.

The present electrolytes include an alkali metal salt dissolved in a polar aprotic solvent. The alkali metal salt can be present at a concentration of from about 0.5 to about 2 molar and may be a lithium salt. For example the alkali metal salt may be Li CO B Li CO BF LiClO LiBF LiAsF LiPF LiCFSO Li CFSO N Li CFSO C LiN SOCF lithium alkyl fluorophosphates or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Lithium chelato borates such as Li CO B and Li CO BFcan also be used as the alkali metal salt or as an additional stabilizing additive. Thus in some embodiments the alkali metal salt is other than a lithium chelato borate and the electrolyte further includes 0.0005 wt to 15 wt Li CO B or Li CO BF.

A wide variety of polar aprotic solvents may be used in the present electrolytes including but not limited to ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate diethyl carbonate methyl propyl carbonate ethyl propyl carbonate dipropyl carbonate bis trifluoroethyl carbonate bis pentafluoropropyl carbonate trifluoroethyl methyl carbonate pentafluoroethyl methyl carbonate heptafluoropropyl methyl carbonate perfluorobutyl methyl carbonate trifluoroethyl ethyl carbonate pentafluoroethyl ethyl carbonate heptafluoropropyl ethyl carbonate perfluorobutyl ethyl carbonate fluorinated oligomers dimethoxyethane triglyme dimethylvinylene carbonate tetraethyleneglycol dimethyl ether polyethylene glycols sulfones butyrolactone and mixtures of any two or more thereof. Protic solvents such as water and alcohols can not be used with the present technology.

In another aspect the present technology provides methods of preparing the electrolytes described herein. The methods include combining an alkali metal salt and one or more stabilizing additives in a polar aprotic solvent substantially free of water wherein at least one of the stabilizing additives is selected from the group consisting of a triazinane trione and a bicyclic compound comprising succinic anhydride. In some embodiments of the methods the electrode stabilizing additive can be a compound of Formula I. In another embodiment the electrode stabilizing additive may be a compound of Formula II. The present methods can employ any of the alkali metal salts or polar aprotic solvents described herein.

In another aspect the present technology provides electrochemical devices incorporating the present electrolytes. The electrochemical device may be an electrochemical cell and include a cathode an anode and an electrolyte as described herein. The electrochemical device may be a lithium secondary battery. In some such batteries the cathode can be a lithium metal oxide cathode the anode can be a carbon or lithium metal anode and the anode and cathode are separated from each other by a porous separator.

Thus for example the cathode in such a device may include spinel olivine carbon coated olivine see Published U.S. Patent Application No. 2004 0157126 LiFePO LiCoO LiNiO LiNiCoMetO LiMnNiO LiMnCONiO LiMnO LiFeO LiMetMnO LiNiMnCoMet OF AB YO Nasicon vanadium oxide or mixtures of any two or more thereof wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Mn or Co Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti A is Li Ag Cu Na Mn Fe Co Ni Cu or Zn B is Ti V Cr Fe or Zr Y is P S Si W or Mo 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 and 0 z 0.4 and 0 n 3. In some embodiments the cathode can be a spinel manganese oxide with the formula of LiMnMetOY wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co Y is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 s 0.5 and 0 t 0.5. Alternatively the cathode can comprise olivine with a formula of LiFeMet POY wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni Mn or Co Y is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 s 0.5 and 0 t 0.5.

In electrochemical devices of the present technology the anode may comprise graphite amorphous carbon LiTiO tin alloys silicon alloys intermetallic compounds lithium metal or mixtures of any two or more thereof. Suitable graphitic materials including natural graphite artificial graphite graphitized meso carbon microbeads and graphite fibers as well as any amorphous carbon materials.

Cathodes of the present technology may be further stabilized by surface coating the particles of the spinel or olivine with a material that can neutralize acid or otherwise lessen or prevent leaching of the manganese or iron ions. Hence the cathodes can also comprise a surface coating of a metal oxide on the spinel or olivine particles such as ZrO TiO Zn0 WO AlO MgO SiO SnOAlPO Al OH a mixture of any two or more thereof or any other suitable metal oxide. The coating can also be applied to a carbon coated olivine. Where carbon coated olivine is used the metal oxide coating can be applied to the carbon coated olivine or can be applied to the olivine first followed by carbon coating of the metal oxide film. Methods for coating spinel cathodes with metal oxides are disclosed below and may be adapted for use with olivine cathodes.

The metal oxide coating on spinel can be applied using a variety of processes. For example the coating element source can be dissolved in an organic solvent or water. The coating element sources include metal alkoxide salt or oxide e.g. aluminum isopropoxide or magnesium methoxide . Spinel cathode materials are then dispersed in the coating solution. The mixture is stirred until the organic solvent is completely evaporated. If necessary a flushing gas COor moisture free inert gas may be used to help facilitate evaporation of the solvent in the coating solution. The dried coated material is then heat treated at a temperature ranging from about 100 C. to about 500 C.

A TiOcoating can be applied to spinel powders by hydroxylation of tetra n butyl titanate TBT . Thus for example the titanate can be reacted with LiOH to precipitate the titanium hydroxide onto the spinel powder. The coated material can be heat treated at 100 to about 400 C. to yield spinel particles with the desired oxide coating.

A sol gel process may also be employed in the coating of the spinel. The coating materials including M ethylhexanatediisopropoxide M Zr Al Ti B Si and tin ethylhexanoisopropoxide can be dissolved in alcohol e.g. 2 propanol or isopropanol . The cathode materials are then mixed with the coating solution and annealed at from about 100 C. to about 500 C. Alternatively a coating solution can be prepared by dissolving ethyl silicate in ethanol and water. Spinel powder is immersed in the coating solution stirred dried at 110 C. and then is calcined at from about 200 C. to about 500 C.

The process of coating spinel with AlPOcan be carried out by dissolving aluminum nitrate and ammonium phosphate in water until a light white suspension solution the AlPOnanoparticle solution is observed. Spinel cathode powder is then added to the coating solution and mixed. The slurry can be dried and annealed at from about 100 C. to about 500 C.

Colloidal suspensions may also be used to coat spinel with metal oxides. For example the spinel powders can be coated using a 4 wt 0.3 mol colloidal ZrOsuspension. The spinel particles are immersed and stirred in the ZrOsuspension for about 1 h followed by evaporation of the nascent liquid at 75 C. Thereafter the products can be heated at about 200 to 400 or 500 C.

Alternatively the ZrOcoating of spinel can be carried out by using two different coating solutions zirconium oxide polymeric precursor or an aqueous solution of zirconium nitrate . Spinel could be mixed with the coating solutions until the mixture is dry. Then the mixture could be heated at 100 C. to evaporate the solvents in the coating solutions. The dried mixture could be heat treated at 200 500 C.

A ZnOcoating can be applied to the spinel by dissolving zinc acetate in water followed by adding the spinel powder and thoroughly mixing for about 4 h at room temperature. After drying the coated powder is heated at 120 C. and is further calcined at about 200 C. to about 400 C.

Finally spinel can be coated using a co precipitation process. Spinel powder is dispersed into a NaHCOsolution and ultrasonically agitated. The suspension is then stirred mechanically while Al SO solution is added drop wise to it. In this way Al OH is precipitated onto the spinel particle surface. The final powder is filtered washed and dried. The dried powder is heated in air at about 200 C. to about 600 C.

Stabilized electrodes comprised of blends of materials and electrochemical devices employing the same are also within the scope of the present technology. For example the cathode can include a blend of spinel and LiNiMnCoMet OF wherein Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti and wherein 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 and 0 z 0.4. The ratio of spinel to LiNiMnCoMet OF is typically from about 0.5 to about 60 wt . Suitable cathodes can also include a blend of olivine or carbon coated olivine and LiNiMnCoMet OF wherein Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti and wherein 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 and 0 z 0.4. As before the ratio of olivine or carbon coated olivine to LiNiMnCoMet OF can be from about 0.5 to about 98 wt .

Such mixed electrodes can be used with any of the electrochemical devices described herein including those in which the alkali metal salt of the electrolyte is Li CO BF Li CO B or mixtures thereof as well as those utilizing the electrode stabilizing additives described herein.

The porous separator may be made from materials well known to those skilled in the art. Typically the porous separator comprises polypropylene polyethylene or a multilayer laminate of polypropylene and polyethylene.

Thus in accordance with one embodiment the electrochemical device of the present technology includes a spinel olivine or carbon coated olivine cathode a graphite or amorphous carbon anode and a substantially nonaqueous electrolyte comprising an alkali metal salt that is Li CO BFor Li CO B a polar aprotic solvent that is ethyl acetate propyl acetate ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate dimethyl ether gamma butyrolactone or a mixture of any two or more thereof and a stabilizing additive selected from any of the triazinane triones or bicyclic compounds including a succinic anhydride described herein including but not limited to TTT and ODH.

In some embodiments of electrochemical devices of the present technology the cathode is spinel olivine or carbon coated olivine and the alkali metal salt of the electrolyte includes Li CO BF Li CO B or mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the at least one stabilizing additive selected from any of the triazinane triones or bicyclic compounds including a succinic anhydride described herein. The electrochemical device may include additional stabilizing additives in the electrolyte selected from 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane or a mixture of any two or more thereof. In any of these embodiments the cathode can include a surface coating of a metal oxide as described herein.

While not wishing to be limited by any theory it is believed that electrochemical devices of the present technology exhibit enhanced performance due to the stabilizing additives present in the non aqueous electrolytes. Thus it is believed that the additives protect the electrodes from chemical attack thereby lessening or preventing subsequent performance degradation. Specifically it is believed that during initial formation of the electrochemical device the additive forms a protective film on the surface of the positive electrode cathode and can also form a protective film on the surface of the negative electrode anode . The passivating film prevents Mn and Fe ions from dissolving in the electrolyte and stabilizes the cell in general. Where a passivating film is formed on the anode the film also lessens or prevents the reduction of Mn ions from spinel cathodes and Fe ions from olivine cathodes at the anode surface. During the film forming process additives of the present technology may be oxidized or oxidized and polymerized. Additives of the present technology typically have an oxidation potential ranging from about 1.5V and about 6.5V Li Li.

In another aspect the present technology provides new compounds for use as stabilizing additives in the present electrolytes. The compounds include compounds of Formulas I and II 

In some embodiments of the compounds of Formulas I and II R R R Rand Rmay be independently selected from H F Cl Br I an unsubstituted alkyl or alkenyl group a haloalkyl group an epoxyalkyl group or an alkyl alkenyl or alkoxyalkyl group substituted with a substituent selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate vinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl carbonate and an ester. In some embodiments the ester is acrylate. In other embodiments R R R Rand Rmay be independently selected from H F Cl Br I an unsubstituted C Calkyl group an unsubstituted C Calkenyl group an unsubstituted C Calkynyl group a C Calkyl group substituted with a C Cester group a C Csilylalkyl group a C Csiloxylalkyl group a C Calkoxyalkyl group substituted with an ethylene carbonate group or a C Cepoxy or epoxyalkyl group. In some embodiments R R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl tert butyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 butenyl acetylenyl and 2 propynyl 3 butynyl. R R and Rmay be the same so long as at least one of R R and Ris not H methyl or allyl. Rand Rmay be the same e.g. both H provided that when X has formula IIIA and Rand Rare both H then n is an integer from 3 to 6.

The synthesis of representative compounds of Formulas I and II may be carried out using known procedures or can be readily adapted from them by those skilled in the art based on the following references N Heterocyclic carbenes as highly efficient catalysts for the cyclotrimerization of isocyanates Duong H. A. et al. 6 25 4679 4681 2004 Bis ethyl 3 oxobutanolato O1 O3 bis 2 propanolato titanium Tyzor DC as a reactant and catalyst in the trimerization of 2 isocyanatoethyl methacrylate IEM Graham J. C. et al. 3 5 6 413 20 1989 A process for preparing triglycidyl isocyanurate Xia E. et al. CN Patent No. 101643452 10 Feb. 2010 Synthesis and N methylation of tetrabutylammonium isocyanurate Havet J. L. et al. 44 23 4399 4402 2003 Process for the production of isocyanatosilane and silylisocyanurate Childress R. S and Burns P. J. in U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. 2006 276644 7 Dec. 2006 Potent non nitrile dipeptidic dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors Simpkins L. M. et al. 17 23 6476 6480 2007 Synthesis of the constrained glutamate analogs 2S 1 R 2 R and 2S 1 S 2 S 2 2 carboxycyclobutyl glycines L CBG II and L CBG I by enzymatic transamination Gu X. et al. from 47 2 193 196 2005 Fate of the Intermediate Diradicals in the Caldera Stereochemistry of Thermal Stereomutations 2 2 Cycloreversions and 2 4 Ring Enlargements of cis and trans 1 Cyano 2 E and Z propenyl cis 3 4 dideuteriocyclobutanes von Doering W. et al. 124 39 11642 11652 2002 Reactivity patterns in the rhodium carbenoid induced tandem cyclization cycloaddition reaction Padwa A. et al. from 54 4 817 24 1989 E 1 Trimethylsilyl 1 3 butadiene Fleming I. from e EROS Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic Synthesis 2001. Each of the previous references are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

In general substituted refers to an organic group as defined below e.g. an alkyl group in which one or more bonds to a hydrogen atom contained therein are replaced by a bond to non hydrogen or non carbon atoms. Substituted groups also include groups in which one or more bonds to a carbon s or hydrogen s atom are replaced by one or more bonds including double or triple bonds to a heteroatom. Thus a substituted group is substituted with one or more substituents unless otherwise specified. In some embodiments a substituted group is substituted with 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituents. Examples of substituent groups include halogens i.e. F Cl Br and I alkoxy alkenoxy and aralkyloxy groups carbonyls O carboxyls COOH esters urethanes sulfides sulfoxides sulfones sulfonyls sulfonamides amines hydrazones amides amidines enamines isocyanates N C O isothiocyanates N C S nitro groups i.e. NO nitriles i.e. CN and the like.

Substituted ring groups such as substituted cycloalkyl aryl and heterocyclyl groups also include rings and fused ring systems in which a bond to a hydrogen atom is replaced with a bond to a carbon atom. Therefore substituted cycloalkyl aryl and heterocyclyl groups may also be substituted with substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups as defined below.

Alkyl groups include straight chain and branched chain saturated hydrocarbon groups having from 1 to 20 carbons unless indicated otherwise. For example a Calkyl group includes alkyl groups with 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 carbon atoms. In some embodiments an alkyl group has from 1 to 14 carbon atoms from 1 to 12 carbon atoms from 1 to 10 carbons from 1 to 8 1 to 6 or 1 2 3 or 4 carbon atoms. Examples of straight chain alkyl groups include groups such as methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl and n octyl n decyl n dodecyl and n tetradecyl groups. Examples of branched chain alkyl groups include but are not limited to isopropyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl neopentyl isopentyl and 2 2 dimethylpropyl groups. Representative substituted alkyl groups may be substituted one or more times with substituents such as those listed above and in some embodiments have 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituents.

Alkylene groups are alkyl groups as defined herein which are divalent i.e. they have two points of attachment to a compound of the present technology. Representative alkylene groups include but are not limited to CH CHCH CH CH CH .

Cycloalkyl groups include mono bi or tricyclic alkyl groups having from 3 to 12 carbon atoms in the ring s or in some embodiments 3 to 10 3 to 8 or 3 4 5 or 6 carbon atoms. Exemplary monocyclic cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl groups. In some embodiments the cycloalkyl group has 3 to 8 ring members whereas in other embodiments the number of ring carbon atoms range from 3 to 5 3 to 6 or 3 to 7. Bi and tricyclic ring systems include both bridged cycloalkyl groups and fused rings such as but not limited to adamantyl decalinyl and the like. Cycloalkyl groups may be unsubstituted or substituted by the same substituents and in the same number as alkyl groups are.

Alkenyl groups are straight chain branched or cyclic alkyl groups having 2 to 14 carbon atoms and further including at least one double bond between adjacent carbon atoms. In some embodiments alkenyl groups have from 2 to 12 2 to 10 2 to 8 or from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkenyl groups include for instance vinyl propenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl isobutenyl cyclohexenyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexadienyl butadienyl pentadienyl and hexadienyl groups among others. Alkenyl groups may be substituted similarly to alkyl groups. Divalent alkenyl groups i.e. alkenyl groups with two points of attachment include but not limited to CH CH CH C CH or C CHCH.

Alkynyl groups are straight chain or branched alkyl groups having 2 to 14 carbon atoms and further including at least one triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms. In some embodiments alkynyl groups have from 2 to 12 2 to 10 2 to 8 or from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Exemplary alkynyl groups include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl and butynyl groups. Alkynyl groups may be substituted similarly to alkyl groups. Representative substituted alkynyl groups may be substituted 1 or more times with substituents such as those listed above and in some embodiments have 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituents.

Aryl groups are cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that do not contain heteroatoms. Aryl groups herein include monocyclic bicyclic and tricyclic ring systems. Thus aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl azulenyl heptalenyl biphenyl fluorenyl phenanthrenyl anthracenyl indenyl indanyl pentalenyl and naphthyl groups. Aryl groups contain 6 14 carbons in the ring portions of the groups. In some embodiments aryl groups have from 6 to 12 or even 6 10 carbon atoms in the ring portions of the groups. In some embodiments the aryl groups are phenyl or naphthyl. Although the phrase aryl groups includes groups containing fused rings such as fused aromatic aliphatic ring systems e.g. indanyl tetrahydronaphthyl and the like it does not include aryl groups that have other groups such as alkyl or halo groups bonded to one of the ring members. Rather groups such as tolyl are referred to as substituted aryl groups. Representative substituted aryl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once. For example monosubstituted aryl groups include but are not limited to 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituted phenyl or naphthyl groups which may be substituted with substituents such as those listed above.

Aralkyl groups are alkyl groups as defined above in which a hydrogen or carbon bond of an alkyl group is replaced with a bond to an aryl group as defined above. In some embodiments aralkyl groups contain 7 to 16 carbon atoms 7 to 14 carbon atoms or 7 to 10 carbon atoms. Substituted aralkyl groups may be substituted at the alkyl the aryl or both the alkyl and aryl portions of the group. Representative aralkyl groups include but are not limited to benzyl and phenethyl groups and fused cycloalkylaryl alkyl groups such as 4 indanylethyl. Representative substituted aralkyl groups may be substituted one or more times with substituents such as those listed above.

Alkoxy groups are hydroxyl groups OH in which the bond to the hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to a carbon atom of a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group as defined above. Examples of linear alkoxy groups include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy pentoxy hexoxy and the like. Examples of branched alkoxy groups include but are not limited to isopropoxy sec butoxy tert butoxy isopentoxy isohexoxy and the like. Examples of cycloalkoxy groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyloxy cyclobutyloxy cyclopentyloxy cyclohexyloxy and the like. Representative substituted alkoxy groups may be substituted one or more times with substituents such as those listed above and in some embodiments have 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituents.

The terms aryloxy and arylalkoxy refer to respectively a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group bonded to an oxygen atom and a substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl group bonded to the oxygen atom at the alkyl. Examples include but are not limited to phenoxy naphthyloxy and benzyloxy. Representative substituted aryloxy and arylalkoxy groups may be substituted one or more times with substituents such as those listed above and in some embodiments have 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituents.

Alkoxyalkyl groups are alkyl groups as defined herein in which an internal carbon atom in the chain has been replaced with an oxygen. Thus alkoxyalkyl groups do not include alkyl groups substituted with a hydroxyl group. Representative alkoxyalkyl groups include ethoxymethyl methoxyethyl ethoxyethyl isopropoxymethyl and the like. Alkoxyalkyl groups may be substituted one or more times with substituents such as those listed above and in some embodiments have 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituents.

The term amine or amino as used herein refers to NHRand NRRgroups wherein R Rand Rare independently hydrogen or a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl or aralkyl group as defined herein. In some embodiments the amine is NH methylamino dimethylamino ethylamino diethylamino propylamino isopropylamino phenylamino or benzylamino. The term amide or amido includes C and N amide groups i.e. C O NRR and NRC O Rgroups respectively. Rand Rare independently hydrogen or a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl and aralkyl group as defined herein. Amido groups therefore include but are not limited to carbamoyl groups C O NH and formamide groups NHC O H .

The term amidine refers to C NR NRRand NRC NR R wherein R R and Rare each independently hydrogen or a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl or aralkyl group as defined herein.

The term substituted or unsubstituted carbonate group refers to carbonate groups having the formula ROC O OR wherein Rand Rare independently a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or alkenyl group or Rand Rtogether are a substituted or unsubstituted ethylene or ethenylene group i.e. CHCH or CH CH and the carbonate is cyclic. As a substituent on another compound e.g. additives of the present technology the carbonate group may be attached through its Rand Rgroups. Representative substituted or unsubstituted carbonate groups include but are not limited to ethyl methyl carbonate ethylene carbonate 1 3 dioxolan 2 one vinyl ethylene carbonate 4 vinyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one and vinyl carbonate 1 3 dioxol 2 one .

The term enamine refers to C R C R NRRand NRC R C R R wherein R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl or heterocyclylalkyl group as defined herein.

The term ester as used herein refers to COORand OC O Rgroups. Ris a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl or aralkyl group as defined herein.

The term hydrazone as used herein refers to NNRR. Rand Rare independently selected from H and substituted or unsubstituted alky cycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl or aralkyl groups.

The term olivine refers to iron based olivine such as e.g. LiFeMet POX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni Mn or Co X is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5.

The term organophosphate refers to OP O OR groups where each Rgroup is independently H or an alkyl or cycloalkyl group so long as at least one Ris not hydrogen.

The term polar aprotic solvent refers to liquids that lack exchangeable hydrogens but have functional groups that impart polarity e.g. as evidenced by dielectric constant to the solvent. Classes of polar aprotic solvents include e.g. cyclic carbonic acid esters linear carbonic acid esters phosphoric acid esters oligoether substituted siloxanes silanes cyclic ethers chain ethers lactone compounds chain esters nitrile compounds amide compounds sulfone compounds and the like.

The term silylalkyl group refers to an alkyl group as defined herein substituted with one or more silyl groups of the formula Si R wherein Ris selected from an alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl aryl or aralkyl group and one of the Rgroups may itself be substituted with another silyl groups. In some embodiments the silylalkyl is a C Csilylalkyl.

The term siloxyalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted with one or more siloxy groups having the formula OSi R wherein Ris selected from an alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl aryl or aralkyl group and one of the Rgroups may itself be substituted with another siloxy group. In some embodiments the siloxyalkyl is a C Csiloxylalkyl.

The term sulfonamido includes S and N sulfonamide groups i.e. SONRRand NRSORgroups respectively. Rand Rare independently hydrogen or a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl or aralkyl group as defined herein. Sulfonamido groups therefore include but are not limited to sulfamoyl groups SONH .

The term thiol refers to SH groups while sulfides include SRgroups sulfoxides include S O Rgroups sulfones include SORgroups and sulfonyls include SOOR. R R R and Rare each independently a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl cycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl or aralkyl group as defined herein.

Urethane groups include N and O urethane groups i.e. NRC O ORand OC O NRRgroups respectively. Rand Rare independently a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl or aralkyl group as defined herein. Rmay also be H.

Spirocyclic hydrocarbons include ring systems comprising carbon and hydrogen and having two or more rings in which at least two of the rings are joined at a single carbon.

The term spinel refers to manganese based spinel such as e.g. LiMnMetOX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co X is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5.

The term stabilizing additive refers to additives to electrolytes for electrochemical devices e.g. batteries that stabilize one or both of the electrodes against degradation and extend cell cycle performance. Such stabilizing additives are believed to passivate the surface of the electrode forming a thin film against further reaction between the electrode and the electrolyte.

One skilled in the art will readily realize that all ranges discussed can and do necessarily also describe all subranges therein for all purposes and that all such subranges also form part and parcel of this present technology. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc.

All publications patent applications issued patents and other documents referred to in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication patent application issued patent or other document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety. Definitions that are contained in text incorporated by reference are excluded to the extent that they contradict definitions in this disclosure.

The present technology thus generally described will be understood more readily by reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present technology.

One weight percent of 1 3 5 triallyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 6 1H 3H 5H trione TTT available from SIGMA ALDRICH was added into an electrolyte of 1.2 M LiPFin EC EMC ethyl methyl carbonate 3 7 by wt which was tested in a 2032 coin cell using LiNiCoMnO MCMB as electrodes. The cell was then cycled at 55 C. for 2 cycles at C 10 rate between 3 4 V. Another cell using straight electrolyte without additive was also cycled under the same condition. The results then were converted into differential capacity profiles of each cell to demonstrate the SEI formation difference. However by comparing the two cells results no obvious difference was observed in which could mean additive TTT does decompose at a specific constant potential.

The cells of example 1 were then optimized by reducing the concentration of 1 3 5 Triallyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 6 1H 3H 5H trione from 1 weight percent to 0.2 weight percent in the aforementioned electrolyte. The cells containing electrolyte with and without additives at reduced concentration were then cycled at 55 C. for 200 cycles at 1 C rate between 3 4 V. The capacity retention profiles of each is shown in . As seen in the figure with addition of additive TTT the capacity retentions were much improved especially for the electrolyte with 0.2 weight percent additive TTT. The results strongly indicate the additive participated into the SEI formation process and formed a more stable passivation film.

The cells of example 2 were tested for AC impedance results before the 200 cycles at 55 C. The cells were charged to 3.8 V with a constant voltage method to assure the same SOC states. The AC impedance was collected over a frequency range of 10 mHz 1 MHz with Solartron Analytic 1470E cell test system coupled with 1454A Frequency Response Analyzer. As shown in the interfacial impedance of the cell with additive is bigger than that of the cell without additive suggesting the additive participating in the formation of the passivation film. The increase if the interfacial impedance is not favorable to the cell performance in terms of power but the small extent still makes this additive promising for practice applications.

The cells of example 2 were tested for AC impedance results again after the 200 cycles at 55 C. The cells were charged to 3.8 V with a constant voltage method to assure the same SOC states. As shown in the interfacial impedance of the cells with additive increased after 200 cycles and was still larger than that of the cell without additives.

One weight percent of 3 oxabicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 2 4 dione OHD available from SIGMA ALDRICH was added into an electrolyte of 1.2 M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by wt which was tested in a 2032 coin cell using LiNiCoMnO MCMB as electrodes. The cell was then cycled at 55 C. for 2 cycles at C 10 rate between 3 4 V. Another cell using straight electrolyte without additive was also cycled under the same condition. The results then were converted into differential capacity profiles of each cell see to demonstrate the SEI formation difference. The profile of the cell with OHD exhibited a new peak at around 2.3 V and did not show the broad peak at 2.8 V resulted from EC. The results clearly indicated that additive OHD was involved into the formation process of passivation film on the electrodes surface.

The cells of example 5 were then optimized by reducing the concentration of 3 oxabicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 2 4 dione trione from 1 weight percent to 0.1 and 0.2 weight percent in the aforementioned electrolyte. The cells containing electrolyte with and without additives at reduced concentration were then cycled at 55 C. for 200 cycles at 1 C rate between 2.7 4.2 V. The capacity retention profiles of them were shown in . As shown in the figure with addition of additive OHD the capacity retentions were much improved see especially for the electrolyte with 0.2 weight percent additive. The results strongly indicate the additive participated into the SEI formation process and formed a more stable passivation film.

The cells of example 5 were tested for AC impedance results before the 200 cycles at 55 C. The cells were charged to 3.8 V with a constant voltage method to assure the same state of charge SOC states. As shown in the interfacial impedance of the cells with and without additives were almost identical suggesting OHD with low concentration will not affect the cell performance in terms of power output of the cell system.

The cells of example 5 were tested for AC impedance results again after the 200 cycles at 55 C. The cells were charged to 3.8 V with a constant voltage method to assure the same SOC states. As shown in the interfacial impedance of the cells with and without additives increased after 200 cycles at 55 C. and the extent of increase of the cell with additive was larger suggesting with cycling the passivation film grew thicker.

