---

title: Method and apparatus for accessing media
abstract: A system controls access to a group of media items. A client device is operable by a user. A media server is coupled to at least one media data source, wherein the at least one media data source stores one or more media items for supply, by the media server, to the client device over a network. An authorization server is coupled to an authorization data source. The authorization data source stores data identifying a group of media items of fixed group size N that are accessible by the user, each media item in said group having a different associated availability parameter value indicating a number of time periods M within which access to the media item is available, wherein the authorization server is arranged to authorize the media server to supply a media item to the client device if said media item belongs to the group of media items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276941&OS=09276941&RS=09276941
owner: MUBI UK LIMITED
number: 09276941
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20140623
---
This is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of International Application No. PCT GB2012 053222 filed Dec. 20 2012 published by the International Bureau as International Publication No. WO2013093488 A2 on Jun. 27 2013 which claims priority to GB Patent Application No. 1122276.7 filed Dec. 23 2011. The entire contents of each of the above referenced applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to controlling access to a media item. In particular but not exclusively the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for accessing a group of media items. This method and apparatus may for example be applied to a video streaming service that operates over a network.

With the growth of high speed network connections the streaming of audio video data has become a viable option for the supply of media to a user. This audio video data may comprise amongst others movies television programs Internet programming Internet Protocol Television IPTV radio programs music videos and or audio tracks user generated content and so called podcasts . Typically audio video data is stored on a video server and delivered to a client device over one or more intermediate network connections. For a residential user these network connections may be provided using a variety of physical communications media for example a fiber optic Digital Subscriber Line DSL or cable connection from a property to a local exchange which is then coupled to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a cable provider s network system. Alternatively wireless telecommunications systems such as those using the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or any of the Long Term Evolution LTE standards may provide a communications medium for fixed or mobile client devices. These latter network systems may in turn be connected to a series of one or more networks that may comprise servers routers and other networking equipment that communicate using protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP . These systems are often collectively referred to as the Internet . The video server is also connected to the same systems. Hence audio video data may be said to be delivered to a client device over the Internet .

The trend towards high speed network connections that can support the streaming of audio video data has progressed in parallel with an increase in the quantity of digitized media content. For example it is not uncommon for newly released movies to be available as a digital download as well as being available as a digital file on a conventional storage medium such as a Digital Versatile Disc DVD . Furthermore many content owners and suppliers are digitalizing catalog movie titles. With the communication capabilities of the Internet and so called social media technologies e.g. messaging and publishing technologies the cultural awareness of consumers is also growing. This is driving a demand for more obscure media items that may have had a foreign and or limited public release. There will thus soon be a point where most movies that have been released to the public in the last century will be available in a digital form suitable for delivery over the aforementioned high speed network connections.

The increased viability of digital delivery over the Internet and an ever increasing library of media items lead to technical challenges for media suppliers. The growing library of available media items requires large scale storage systems. At the same time an increasing number of users seeking access to content requires fault tolerant systems that can cope with high traffic rates. Large and complex systems that meet these requirements are expensive and require full time maintenance from one or more engineers. These requirements are also compounded by user s expectations. Users often look for and expect quality of service QoS and picture or sound quality equivalent to broadcast networks such as terrestrial television or radio or DVD playback. This requires high picture resolutions so called high definition HD formats having resolutions of 1280 by 720 pixels 720p or 1920 by 1080 1080i 1080p and or high bit rate or lossless audio compression technologies. Meeting these expectations requires an increase in the size of the digital files and thus the storage demands are more onerous. This needs to be traded off with caching and access strategies that allow streaming for example some compression formats require complex encoding and decoding algorithms that introduce unacceptable delays into streaming services.

Media suppliers that are not content owners also have to implement technical systems that can accommodate the requirements of the content owners. Licensing arrangements for digital content often require the recordal of media supply metrics. For example copyright provisions may mean that a license limits the number of downloads of a particular media item e.g. 200 000 user downloads or that the license requires geographical limitations e.g. users in country C are not allowed to download the media item.

There is thus a need for an approach to accessing media items such as audio video data in applications such as video streaming that overcomes at least a number of the aforementioned requirements for example that supplies high quality data over networks such as the Internet while minimizing the cost and complexity of the supply systems.

There is yet a further need for a workable approach to accessing a near infinite library of media items that does not overwhelm a user yet allows serendipitous discovery of new content.

In accordance with an embodiment there is provided a computer implemented method of controlling access to a media item over an electronic communications medium comprising providing to an electronic device access to a group of media items having a fixed group size N a media item having an availability parameter the availability parameter indicating a number of time periods M within which access to the media item is available each media item in the group having a different availability parameter value and for a transition to a new time period removing a first media item from the group of media items whose availability parameter indicates that the time within which access to the media item is available has expired for the new time period and adding a second media item to the group of media items the availability parameter for the second media item may be set such that the number of time periods M is equal to the fixed group size N.

This computer implemented method facilitates the management of media items e.g. audio video data such as films by providing a way in which to reduce the resource costs associated with media delivery while providing users with a regularly changing group of media items. By only providing access to a group of media items that has a fixed size and for example is smaller than a larger library or archive of media items resources can be focused on providing the limited number of media items. By providing access to a group of media items whose size equals the time in which a newly added media item is available management of the group of media items is made more efficient for example it simplifies the addition and removal of a media item from the group at a time transition. This results in easier implementation and less down time for engineers. Accessing a media item may comprise downloading or streaming a media item.

In accordance with an embodiment there is provided a method of controlling access to media items may comprise receiving a request from a user of a client device at a server device granting access to a set of N media items each media item may be available for a number M of time periods the values of M for the set of media items ranging from to N wherein for each new time period if the availability of a media item has expired said media item is removed from the set of N media items and replaced by a new media item with a value of M equal to N. Here the set of N media items may be selected from a library of R media items wherein R is greater than N the new media item may be selected from said library.

In accordance with an embodiment there is provided an apparatus for controlling access to a group of media items may comprise a control database comprising records identifying at least a group of media items of fixed group size N the records storing an availability parameter for a media item the availability parameter indicating a number of time periods M within which access to the media item is available wherein each media item in the group has a different availability parameter value and a media access component coupled to the control database the media access component arranged to grant access to the group of media items to a client device and for a transition to a new time period remove a reference to a first media item from said records identifying the group of media items the first media item may be a media item whose availability parameter indicates that the time within which access to the media item is available has expired for the new time period and add a reference to a second media item to said records identifying the group of media items the availability parameter for the second media item may be set such that the number of time periods M is equal to the fixed group size N.

In accordance with an embodiment there is provided a system for controlling access to a group of media items comprising a client device operable by a user a media server coupled to at least one media data source the at least one media data source storing one or more media items for supply by the media server to the client device over a network and an authorization server coupled to an authorization data source the authorization data source storing data identifying a group of media items of fixed group size N that are accessible by the user each media item in said group having a different associated availability parameter values indicating a number of time periods M within which access to the media item is available wherein the authorization server is arranged to authorize the media server to supply a media item to the client device if said media item belongs to the group of media items.

In accordance with an embodiment there is provided a method for selecting a media item for electronic access comprising displaying on a user interface metadata for a media item in a library of media items media items in the library of media items may be inaccessible to a user receiving at a computing device feedback data from the user for the media item and updating on a computing device a feedback parameter for the media item based on the received feedback data whereby a media item is selected for inclusion in a group of one or more media items accessible to a user based on the relative value of a feedback parameter associated with said media item when compared to one or more values of one or more feedback parameters of one or more respective other media items in the library of media items.

This method provides a way to select a media item for inclusion in a group of accessible media items. It is particularly suited to automated operation for example it may be implemented with minimal engineer supervision. It also enables users to interact with a media supply system.

Further features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following description of preferred embodiments of the invention given by way of example only which is made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments described herein provide a method apparatus and system for controlling access to a library of media items. In certain embodiments access is reduced to a limited group of media items of fixed size N. This reduces storage requirements only data files relating to N media items need be hosted by the media server rather than say a potentially much larger number of media items that comprise a complete library of media items. Additionally resources may be directed to the supply of a subset of a much larger and potentially infinite library of media titles for example memory and processor resources only need be assigned to cache encode and potentially encrypt the limited group of media items. Furthermore if multiple file formats for a media item are required e.g. for mobile high definition and fiber coupled devices then these only need be prepared for a limited number of media items.

Certain embodiments described herein provide a mechanism for adding and removing media items. This facilities discovery of new media content as new items are added to the group of media items at regular intervals. In some embodiments each media item in the group of media items has an availability parameter that sets a time for which the media item is available. This time may be measured in one or more discrete time periods. If each media item has a different availability parameter value that changes with each new time period a rotating selection of media items can be provided to a user. Resources such as server capacity can then be preferably assigned to the supply of media items that are soon to expire as it is likely that these will have higher traffic rates. These embodiments further support the requirements of content owners and can be tailored for specific geographical regions.

In the embodiment of the client device is couplable to a network or series of networks such as the Internet. The client device may comprise integrated or externally coupled e.g. via an additional USB or proprietary device wired and or wireless local area network LAN capabilities. For example the client device may be couplable to a wired and or wireless router that is in turn connected to a DSL cable or fiber connection to a local exchange the local exchange may be coupled as described previously to the so called Internet using one or more intermediate networks such as those forming part of the PSTN. If the client device comprises a mobile device such as a smart phone it may have an integrated telecommunications module for wirelessly communicating with a core network coupled to one or more TCP IP networks likewise if the client device comprises a laptop or tablet computer it may have an externally coupled telecommunications modem so called dongles typically coupled via USB for wireless communication with the core network and the wider Internet. In the Internet is represented as elements but in practice any communications medium or media may be used.

In the media server forms part of media platform A. In one embodiment the media platform A may be coupled to the client device through one or more intermediate networks A. In another embodiment for example for an implementation having higher load volumes a load balancer may be coupled to the client device through said intermediate networks A. In this latter case the load balancer directs one or more requests from the client device to one of two or more media platforms for example in either media platform A or media platform B depending on the loading characteristics of the components of each media platform. Loading characteristics may be measured using amongst others one or more of the number of user requests received in a particular time period the usage of one or more central processor units CPUs and the number of concurrent active streaming sessions.

In a media platform may comprise a number of servers arranged to supply a number of services to a user. In there are three servers an authorization server a media server and a metadata server . These servers may comprise separate computing devices coupled to one or more networks e.g. one or more LAN or wide area networks WAN separate CPU and memory systems within a common physical architecture coupled together using a common systems bus separate software components operating on a common hardware platform e.g. a common set of CPUs and memory a common software component with the described functionality or any combination of these approaches. Furthermore even though each server may be functionally distinct its functionality may be incorporated into a common program architecture for example the metadata server may be a functional sub component of media server or the authorization server may be a functional sub component of the metadata server . For ease of explanation it will be assumed that the servers of are distinct entities coupled together by a media platform network . Two or more of the servers making up the media platform may further be implemented by separate administrative or corporate entities. For example the media supplier may implement the media server but the metadata server may be implemented by a third party and accessed using application programming interface API function calls or the media supplier may operate the authorization server yet source content from a media server operated by a content owner or licensee.

In the authorization server is coupled to an authorization data source . The authorization server is arranged to receive requests from a client device for access to one or more media items. This is explained in more detail in the description of . To provide an authorization function the authorization server accesses authorization data stored in the authorization data source . For example the authorization server may receive a username and password from a user of client device . In this case the username and password are checked against entries for the user in the authorization data source i.e. the user is authenticated and a session is established with the client device if the received data matches the entries in the authorization data source . In this context session refers to a series of communications between two or more devices which may be encrypted or unencrypted and which may be identified using a session identifier. Within a session it is assumed that the client device is being operated by the authenticated user.

In the media server is coupled to a number of media data sources . Two media data sources A and B are shown but any number of media data sources may be used in practice. In this example media data sources store audio video data that makes up a media item. In some cases a single video file may be stored with integral audio data in other cases separate audio and video files may be stored. A media item may comprise amongst others any one of a film or movie a television program a program in a series an Internet distributed program an animation a radio program a music video an audio track an item of user generated content and home movie footage. In some cases content for a single media item may be distributed across a plurality of separate data files for example as may be stored in distributed database systems. For ease of explanation in the present example each media item will be taken as a movie stored in media data sources as a single movie data file with integrated audio data.

Media items may be received from a content provider in digital form for example if shot onto a digital medium or may be received in an analogue form . Media items received in an analogue form may be converted into a digital form for storage in one of the media data sources by an encoder . In some embodiments each media item may additionally have a plurality of associated data files relating to different encoding standards for example a first encoding standard using a 3GP file format suitable for mobile devices and a second encoding standard using a H.264 MPEG 4 standard. The plurality of different files may also include files at different levels of compression and or different resolutions for tailored delivery depending on the capabilities of the client device and or the network connection .

In the metadata server is coupled to a metadata data source . The metadata server is arranged to receive requests from the client device and or one of the other servers for metadata relating to media items stored in the media storage devices . For example for a movie the metadata may comprise amongst others one or more of title director date of public release genre s age rating length available subtitling average user rating one or more reviews synopsis writers actors and actresses country of production language alternative title aspect ratio and plot keyword s . In some embodiments this metadata is linked with access data such as users or user groups that are allowed access to the movie an availability parameter that identifies a time period in which access to said users or user groups is available and a user feedback parameter. These parameters are described in more detail below and may be stored in one of the authorization data source the media data sources or the metadata data source . In the present embodiment each media item may have a unique identifier for example the movie La Haine may have a 32 bit or 64 bit alphanumeric code x that is used as an index in at least the media data sources and the metadata data source this enables one or more data files containing content representing the movie La Haine to be associated with metadata describing this movie. Each of the data sources may comprise one or more local and or remote storage media for example solid state drives SSDs using flash memory or magnetic disc or tape drives.

In a variation a content delivery network CDN may be used to assist the delivery of a media item to client device . A content delivery network may comprise a distributed network of computers and or storage devices that store distributed copies of a single media item. The computers and or storage devices are typically located to enable fast access to media items for example the content delivery network may comprise network nodes at a number of different geographical locations. A user is thus directed to a copy of a media item stored at the closest node to the client device . A content delivery network may be used for faster and more reliable streaming of a media item in such a case media server may provide one or more data files to the content delivery network for appropriate caching and distribution or may authorize access to content already held by the CDN . In certain cases metadata supply and user authorization is still performed by the metadata server and the authorization server . In these cases one or more servers making up the content delivery network may be authorized by authorization server to supply audio video data to a user. In other cases the content delivery network may have internal servers that take over this functionality or such internal servers may act in association with the services provided by the media platform . In any case the methods and apparatus described herein may be equally applied within a media platform and content delivery network .

At step the authorization server receives and processes the request. This may involve a dialog between the authorization server and the client device to exchange parameters such as a username password digital certificate and or device identifier such as an identifier based on a Media Access Control MAC address or an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI number associated with a device. The dialog may be encrypted. One or more parameters may be stored locally on the client device and or one or more parameters may be input to the client device using an I O interface following a prompt on a display. Step may involve a first sub step of authenticating a user or client device based on the received parameters. In this case parameters received from the client device are checked against parameters stored within the authorization data source . For security in certain cases derivatives of the parameters rather than the parameters themselves may be used for example a hash function of a password may be stored and compared to authenticate a user.

Once a user has been authenticated the authorization server determines whether they are authorized to access media items. This may comprise evaluating user data stored in the authorization data source to determine whether the user belongs to a particular user group which may be specified in a user group field associated with a user identifier. A user may belong to more than one user group although for simplicity in this explanation a user will be assumed to belong to a single user group. In embodiments a user group may comprise the set of all registered users. In certain cases the user group may be based on a geographical location of the user. A geographical location of a user may be based on amongst others one or more of a global navigation satellite system such as the global positioning system GPS an IP address of the client device or a registered mailing or billing address. The system described herein may be available worldwide for example via the Internet. In a multi jurisdictional system such as a worldwide system different media items may be available in different countries.

In the examples described herein a user group has an associated group of media items that a user within the user group is authorized to access. In certain embodiments the group of media items may be associated with an individual user instead of a user group. In the present examples the group of media items is managed by the authorization server however in other implementations such management may be performed by media server metadata server or an alternate server entity.

In an embodiment a group of media items is implemented by a data structure D that stores the unique identifiers x of N media items that belong to the group of media items e.g. D x x . . . x. In an embodiment a group of media items is dynamic i.e. it changes in time. Hence an availability parameter AP is stored for each media item. The availability parameter may be stored in data structure D e.g. D x AV x AV. . . x AV or in a separate link record L e.g. L x AV L x AV . . . L x AV. The availability parameter denotes a time in which the media item is available to a user and as such a time in which the media item belongs to the group of media items. In certain embodiments an availability parameter value sets a number M of time periods for which the media item is available. These time periods may comprise any discrete time period such as full hours full days half days full months full weeks years or a particular number of hours days weeks or months. For example a time period may be set as 6 hours e.g. enough time to watch most movie files and the availability parameter may set access for M of these 6 hour blocks. In the examples described herein the time periods comprise full days i.e. 24 hour periods starting from midnight. Other time transition points may be used in other examples such as midday 3 pm 9 pm etc. Further details of methods and apparatus to implement such a group of media items are set out below.

Once a user successfully logs in i.e. is authenticated and authorized to access a group of media items an acknowledgement may be sent from the authorization server to the client device as shown in step . The acknowledgement may instruct a change in state of an application operating upon the client device for example a Successful Login message may be displayed to the user on display device and the application may initiate a function to retrieve information relating to available media items. This may involve further communication with the media platform .

At step a request to retrieve information relating to available media items is sent to the metadata server . Available media items comprise media items that belong to the group of media items associated with the authorized user. The request may be received from either the authorization server or the client device . The metadata server establishes a session with the client device and or the authorization server based on the authorized user. This session may be encrypted e.g. using the HTTP Secure HTTPS protocol. At step the metadata server uses the unique identifiers of the media items to supply information relating to said media items to the client device . In the present example the metadata server may comprise a web e.g. HTTP server arranged to supply Hypertext Markup Language HTML documents to the client device. These HTML documents are typically dynamically generated i.e. are generated following a request from a page by computer program code such as a scripting language. Therefore information relating to one or more media items in the group of media items is retrieved from the metadata data source and compiled into an HTML document that is sent to the client device at step . Examples of such documents are described in more detail with regard to below. In other embodiments the metadata server may comprise a data server that provides information relating to the media items in a non HTML form to the client device . This may be the case if the client device is running a proprietary application.

In the present example the information returned to the client device may comprise one or more links to media server . For example for a particular media item a graphical control may be shown on display device . The graphical control may have an associated URL. In the example of this URL identifies the media server and provides parameters identifying the particular media item and indicating that the user or the client device is authorized to access the media item. On activation of the graphical control a request is sent e.g. by processing the URL from the client device to the media server . This is shown at step . The request may additionally comprise data that identifies characteristics of the client device such as the type of device and its geographical location. In certain embodiments the request may not identify the media server but identify a proxy device such as load balancer or a server within content delivery network . This proxy may use the characteristics of the client device and or the identified media item to select an appropriate media server which in the example of is media server . At step the request is received at the media server and processed. The processing at step may include locating a video file suitable for delivery to the client device that contains content representing the media item for example that uses appropriate encoding for delivery. The processing at step may also comprise processing to prepare the data file for streaming such as buffering establishing a stable connection setting up a streaming session encrypting etc. At step audio video data is returned to the client device . This audio video data is received by the client device and processed for display on the display device . The processing performed by the client device typically involves decoding by the decoder and buffering and or rendering under control of the media player .

In certain embodiments there may be several different user categories. In the example of the metadata server may comprise functionality of the authorization server e.g. may determine a user category and return appropriate metadata to a client device operated by the user accordingly or this may be performed independently by the authorization server in communication with the metadata server .

A first category may comprise users that are unauthenticated and that have no potential to be authorized. For example any user that is not logged in may be unauthenticated and any user accessing the URL from a client device located in a geographically location where access to media items is not allowed may have no potential to be authorized. In this first case the first category of users may be able to view metadata for media items but may not be able to view one or more controls that allow access to a media item itself for example a watch or listen graphical control may not be rendered as part of a displayed HTML document. In certain cases this first category of users may also be supplied with a limited version of the metadata.

A second category may comprise users that are unauthenticated but have the potential to be authorized. For example any user that is not logged in may be unauthenticated and any user accessing the URL from a client device located in a geographically location where access to media items is allowed may have the potential to be authorized. In this second case the second category of users may be able to view metadata for media items and may also be able to view one or more controls associated with a media item for example a watch or listen graphical control may be rendered as part of a displayed HTML document. However in this case if a user activates the one or more controls e.g. clicks on a watch or listen button they are redirected to a signup or payment process. In certain embodiments this process may be supervised by the authentication server and may comprise sending a signup or payment process HTML document to the client device as a first step. If a user completes the signup or payment process they may then be allowed access to the media item as described below.

A third category may comprise users that are authenticated but that are not authorized. For example a user that has signed up for a service and that is logged in may be authenticated. If the user had a previous subscription that has now expired they may not be authorized. This third category of users may have similar access to the second category of user for example they may be able to view metadata for media items and they may be able to view one or more controls associated with a media item the controls redirecting the third category of users to a payment process to renew a subscription. The third category of users may also have access to additional metadata that was not present for the second category of users. For example in this case the third category of users may have access to metadata relating to previous activity relating to the service such as media item consumption histories ratings playlists personal collections etc.

A fourth category may comprise users that are authenticated and authorized. For example a user that has signed up for the service and that is logged in may be authenticated. If the user has a current subscription that is active they may also be authorized. This fourth category of users may have similar access to the third category of user for example media item and personal metadata and access to controls. If a user in the fourth category of users activates one of the controls e.g. clicks a watch or listen button they may be able to directly watch and or listen to the media item without completing a payment process i.e. they may have instant access.

Returning to step represents a user of a client device activating a control relating to a media item for example clicking on a watch or view button. Using the categories described above the user will be in either the second third or fourth category of users. At step the authorization server authenticates and or authorizes the user. For example if a user is not logged in they may be offered a log in form in order to be authenticated. Log in details may be checked against details stored within authorization data source . Once a user is logged in or has signed up to the service they are authorized by the authorization server . This may involve checking whether the user has a current active subscription. If the user does not have a current active subscription they may be redirected to a payment process at step . If the user has a current active subscription or has completed a payment process then a digitally signed URL is generated with an expiration timestamp with a very short Time To Live TTL window e.g. 10 seconds or so and returned to the user at step . The digitally signed URL may be generated by the authorization server or may be generated by the media server after a user has been successfully authorized. In a first case the digitally signed URL directs the user of the client device to a media item stored in one of the media data sources at step . The digitally signed URL enables access to the media item at step . The user can then consume the media item on the client device at step . In a second case the digitally signed URL directs the user of the client device to CDN at step in particular to a media item stored in a database at a network node . Media servers forming part of the CDN then check the digitally signed URL at step and enable consumption of the media item at step . In certain cases the media servers forming part of the CDN may have no back channel communication with one or more of the authorization server and media server . Step may involve either the download of a media file representing the media item or the receipt of a data stream that over time may comprise the content of the media item. Any of the communications may be performed over a secure channel if required. Additionally any of the variations and features describe with reference to the processes of may be adapted for use with the process of .

As described above a media item belongs to a group of media items of size N and has an availability parameter AV. The availability parameter AVsets a time in which a media item i is available and in the present examples the time is measured as a number M of discrete time periods. The availability parameter AVmay be implemented in a number of different ways while retaining the same function. In a first case the availability parameter AVmay store the number of time periods for which the media item is available for example if the time periods are days the availability parameter AVmay indicate the number of days in which access to a media item is possible if a current clock value shows 15 00 on 11 Nov. 2013 and AV 3 the user can access the media item until 00 00 on 14 Nov. 2013. In a second case the availability parameter AVmay store the date on which access to the media item becomes unavailable for example the previous example may also be implemented by setting the availability parameter AVas 11 14 2013. In a third case the latter example may alternatively be implemented using a compound availability parameter. In this case a first portion of the availability parameter AV is generated by time stamping the date and in some examples time the media file was added to a group of media items e.g. AV 00 00 10 15 2013 . A second portion of the availability parameter AV is generate by storing a value for all media items indicating M the number of time periods that media items are available for e.g. AV 30 days . A final availability parameter may then be dynamically generated i.e. generated at a point of use using AV AV AV expiry date of the media item e.g. 00 00 10 15 2013 30 days 00 00 11 14 2013 .

In the present examples the initial value of M the number of time periods for which a media item is available is set based on the number N of media items in the group of media items. For example in the first case described above the initial value of the availability parameter AVmay be set as AV M N. In the second case described above the initial value of the availability parameter AV current date time M current date time N where the current date time is the date time a media item is added to a group of media items. In the third case described above the initial value of the availability parameter portions are AV current date time where again the current date time is the date time a media item is added to a group of media items and AV M N. These embodiments thus provide a practical solution that may be used to implement a rotating selection of media items. The examples below describe methods of managing a group of media items with these availability parameters.

The method is initiated based on a clock value generated by clock . In particular the method is initiated based on a time transition that indicates the start of a new time period as set out in step . For example in Unix based systems such as Linux HP UX and OpenSolaris the method may be implemented by a script function command or executable that is scheduled using time based job scheduler cron . The job scheduler is arranged to read a value of a system clock for example system clock of authorization server . If the time periods being measured comprise full days a cron table entry such as 0 0 cntrl daily script.pl may be used to initiate a Perl script daily script at midnight each day. The script may comprise an implementation of steps to . In this case a transition to a new time period is detected when the system clock reaches midnight. If it is not midnight i.e. a transition is not detected the method returns to monitoring the clock at step . If a transition is not detected a job scheduler may return to an idle state for a set time e.g. 1 second or 1 hour before checking a clock value a second time.

Assuming a transition to a new time period is detected at step the method continues to step . Here a first media item in the group of media items is selected for example i is set to 1 and x is selected. The availability parameter AVvalue is then reduced by one i.e. is decremented at step . At step a check is made to determine whether the availability parameter AVvalue is equal to 0 i.e. whether the time for which the media item is available has expired. If the availability parameter AVvalue is not equal to 0 a check is made at step to determine whether the media item is the last in the group i.e. does i N If it is not the last item in the group the value for i is incremented i.e. i i 1 at step and the next media item is selected at step . If the availability parameter AVvalue is equal to 0 the method instead proceeds to step . At this step the media item is removed from the group of media items. Even though a media item is removed from the group of media items it may remain within a larger library of media items for example a library or archive of media items whose metadata is visible to a user yet which cannot be accessed by a user. A media item may be removed by setting to null e.g. x . The method then proceeds to step wherein a new media item to add to the group of media items is selected. The new media item may be selected at random from a list of prospective media items using the method of or using any other suitable method. At step the new media item is added to the group of media items. This may be achieved by setting as unique identifier of the new media item i.e. x UI. In certain embodiments step may include the step of notifying one or more users of the addition of the new media item. For example all users or a subset of users may be notified by email or another messaging service such as the short message service SMS that a new item is available for viewing. An email notification may comprise metadata for the media item such as a title picture and or a short description as well as a link or control to enable a user to consume the media item. At step the availability parameter for the newly added media item is initialized. In the present example the availability parameter AVvalue for the new media item is set as the group size i.e. AV N 30. This results in the newly added media item may be available for 30 days. Following step the method returns to step to check whether all the media items have been processed. If they have not the next media item is selected through steps and if they have then steps to e.g. the script started by the job scheduler ends. The method returns to step wherein the clock is monitored for the next time period transition.

If a group of media items is initialized such that each media item in the group has a different availability parameter value and the maximum availability parameter value equals the group size N e.g. for D x AV x AV. . . x AV or L x AV L x AV . . . L x AV AV i where i 1 . . . 30 then the method of results in a continuously rotating selection of media files in the group of media files. If the media items comprise films or movies then in the above example a new film is added to the selection of available films each day and is subsequently made available to watch for a period of time equal to 30 days. Correspondingly each day a film that has been available to watch for the full period of time is removed from the selection. At any one time an authorized user has access to N different media items that they can consume without limitation as many times as they desire.

The methods and apparatus described above will now be further described with reference to a number of exemplary user interfaces that may be generated as a result of the processes within system and displayed upon display device .

The first user interface of further presents to the user a general Reviews section an Available Films section and an Archive Films section . The Reviews section provides a short extract from a recent film review. In some embodiments the Reviews section displays at least a portion of a single review provided by editorial staff of the media supplier. Again this section may be rendered automatically by retrieving recent review data from metadata data source . The Available Films section shows the user a selection of media items in the group of media items that they can currently access. The Available Films section has three sub sections Ending Soon sub section Just Added sub section and Recommended sub section .

The Ending Soon sub section displays media items whose availability parameters indicate that the time in which the user can access the items will expire soon. In metadata relating to the media items with the lowest three availability parameter values is displayed to the user. Again this metadata may be retrieved automatically from the metadata data source and any required additional data sources together with a film still the value of the availability parameter AVin the form of a Days Left label and an average user rating . The latter feature is displayed as a rating out of 5 and may be based on the average of each user s rating of the particular media item. In certain embodiments the average user rating may comprise an interactive control that enables a user to submit a rating for a displayed media item. As a variation anywhere a feedback parameter is viewable by a user a user is also able to submit feedback values for the feedback parameter. In the three media items have Days Left labels respectively reading 1 Day Left 2 Days Left and 3 Days Left . If the first case of availability parameter is used this represents respective values of 1 2 and 3. A graphical control is also displayed for each film to allow the user to click and view the media item.

The Just Added sub section is similar to the Ending Soon sub section but displays the most recently added media items excluding the Film of the Day media item. Hence in the three media items have Days Left labels respectively reading 27 Day Left 28 Days Left and 29 Days Left .

The Recommended sub section shows a number of media items selected from the group of media items that have a high match with a user s personal preferences. The match may be determined by any known recommendation engine that takes as input data relating to a user such as age nationality viewing history media item rating history and outputs probabilistic matching scores for media items in the group of media items. The recommendation engine may also make use of metadata relating to the media items which may be retrieved from metadata data source as well as so called social characteristics i.e. data relating to other users.

The first user interface of may be displayed to the user as a landing page. This may be following authentication and or authorization according to or the landing page may be shown to all users as described with reference to . The first user interface also may comprise a hyperlink that links to an HTML document that displays all media items within the group of media items that are available to the user. shows an exemplary second user interface that may be provided by the display of such an HTML document in a suitable browser. This second user interface may comprise a header section that shows metadata for the Film of the Day for a recommended film and for the film that is next to expire . The metadata takes the same form as that described with relation to . The second user interface also comprise a body section that displays metadata for each media item in the group of media items. For example as can be seen in metadata is displayed for 30 media items and each media item has a Days Left value of between 1 and 30.

In the present examples the media items in the group of media items may be selected from a library of media items a so called archive . In certain cases metadata for media items that are in the library of media items but are not in the group of media items is displayed to a user. This is shown in a third user interface illustrated in . As can be seen from a comparison of and the metadata displayed for each media item is similar there is a film still metadata and an average user rating . However the user is not presented with any option to view the films displayed in for example there is no graphical control . The user thus cannot access any of the media items whose metadata is shown in the third user interface . The user can only browse through further pages of metadata using navigation links . In certain embodiments the library of media items may comprise any collection of media items. In other embodiments the library of media items consists of media items that were previously accessible but that are now inaccessible. In this latter case once media items are removed from a group of accessible media items they are added to the library of media items i.e. added to an archive. Hence in the latter case media items in the library of media items have previously belonged to the group of accessible media items.

The fourth user interface shows a viewing panel for audio video metadata relating to a particular media item. In the present example the media item may comprise the Film of the Day and the audio video metadata may comprise a trailer teaser video review or clip for the Film of the Day . In a first state the viewing panel may contain a still image from the audio video metadata and a further graphical control in the form of a play button displayed on top of the still image. On activation of the play button the audio video metadata may commence playing in viewing panel . A similar procedure may be followed for the full content of the media item in a viewing user interface. A further separate graphical control in the form of a Watch button may also be provided that links to the full content of the media item e.g. said viewing user interface if a user is authenticated and authorized. A further option to view the audio video metadata or media item in a full screen mode may also be provided i.e. such that the viewing panel is expanded to fill all available screen space on a display device. When showing the still image from the audio video metadata the fourth user interface may additionally show information relating to the availability of the media item for example in that the media item is the Film of the Day and further metadata for the media item such as film title country year and director.

The fourth user interface also shows authentication controls to that may be used to authenticate a user as part of an authorization procedure for example steps and of . In the case described with reference to all users are able to view the audio visual metadata. However in certain cases a guest or unauthorized user may be directed to a payment process on activations of graphical control . In other cases in relation to a viewing interface an unauthenticated and or unauthorized user may able to view information similar to that shown in the fourth user interface e.g. an image and metadata for the Film of the Day but associated graphical controls similar to controls or may not be operational until the user has been authenticated using the authentication controls and and deemed an authorized user and or subscribed. A viewing user interface may have a black or dark background to facilitate viewing and a link to a media items profile. Additional text may be displayed in a dark font to avoid disturbing a viewing of a media item. Again a full screen viewing option may be available.

In a first set of authentication controls comprise a username input box a password input box and a request submission control . A user may thus use the first set of authentication controls to send a username and password to the authorization server on activation of the request submission control . A second set of authentication controls may comprise alternate login control . This may comprise a hyperlink to a third party authentication and or authorization service that is configured to authenticate and or authorize a user. The third party authentication and or authorization service may use the Open Authorization OAuth standards.

In certain embodiments if a user has not registered with the authorization server or a third party service they are required to register their details and or set up appropriate payment options for a subscription. shows an exemplary fifth user interface that may be used to set up a payment option for a subscription. For example a user may be directed to the fifth user interface if they are authenticated but not authorized users. Users may have the option to amongst others pay for subscription access at a regular interval e.g. monthly or annually obtain a discount for annual payment and obtain free subscription periods for inviting friends i.e. non subscribers to the service.

As illustrated in the fifth user interface may be configured for display on different display devices for example the fifth user interface is suitable for display on a display device such as a television located a number of meters away from a user. This may further be true for the first to fourth user interfaces. Similarly any of the first to fourth user interfaces may have associated display information that configures the user interface for the form of client device . For example data may be prepared for display on a mobile device or via a mobile application a so called app . This may be based on information identifying the client device received from the client device of the authorization data source .

Another embodiment will now be described. For ease of explanation this embodiment will be described in the context of the previously described methods and apparatus however it may also be used in isolation from the previously described methods and apparatus.

As described in relation to each media item in the group of media items may be selected from a larger library of media items wherein in most cases the number of media items in the library of media items is much greater than the number of media items in the group of media items. This library of media items is referred to as the Archive or set of Archived Films in the exemplary user interfaces . The Archive may comprise media items that were previously accessible but that have now been removed from the group of media items. When a user has restricted access to the group of media items the user is not able to access e.g. watch or listen to media items in the library of media items that do not form part of the group of media items. For example in the third exemplary user interface shown in there is no Watch graphical control associated with a media item and as such a user cannot access said media items.

When a media item is selected to be added to the group of media items for example as part of step in it is in these examples selected from the library of media items. In certain implementations of the previous embodiments the media item to be added may be selected from a database of media items that does not comprise the archive said database being in some cases inaccessible to a user and comprising media items that have not previously been accessible. In comparison the present embodiment provides a method for selecting a particular media item from an archive of media items to add to the group of media items although it may also be applied to other forms of media libraries. This method need not be used for all media items that are added to the group of media items for example it may be used as a special case such as at the end of a particular time period as part of a holiday festival or when a particular threshold relating to user behavior is passed. The method is based on feedback received from one or more users.

The third user interface of shows an additional set of graphical controls to receive and display user feedback relating to a library of media items. A media item in the library of media items when displayed such as in the third user interface has a feedback entry control and a feedback display control . The feedback entry control enables a user to provide feedback regarding a particular media item in the library of media items. The feedback display control displays an indication of the feedback received from a group of users for example all users or all users in the same geographical location. In the simple case of the feedback entry control may comprise a graphical hyperlink. When activated e.g. by a user click or touch an HTML request is sent to a URL. This URL may comprise a service call or a server in the present example metadata server . In other implementations the request may be made to the authorization server or media server . Assuming the authorization server is used a routine such as that shown in is initiated.

In a first case the feedback parameter may comprise a count parameter that counts the number of activations or votes from different users. In this first case at step the feedback parameter is incremented i.e. one is added to the existing feedback parameter value. In a second case the feedback parameter may comprise an average rating e.g. a value out of 5 or 10 for a group of users e.g. all users or a set of users in a particular geographical location. In this case the feedback parameter may be updated by calculating a revised average value to take account of a current user rating submitted at step . In a third case the feedback parameter could comprise a parameter denoting whether one or more users have added a media item to a list or personal collection of preferred or favorite media items. The list or collection may be associated with the user and visible to other users unauthenticated users and or unauthorized users. For example in a basic case when a user adds a particular film to a list of favorite films for the user a count representing the feedback parameter for that particular film is incremented. In some embodiments a media item is added to a list for a user using a graphical control displayed with media item metadata. Other embodiments for the feedback parameter are also possible. Moreover the feedback parameter may comprise a compound parameter that uses a weighted or non weighted combination of two or more types of feedback parameter.

Once the feedback parameter has been updated at step the feedback display control is updated to reflect the new value of said parameter. This may be performed actively such as by sending a response from the responsible server to the client device instructing a refresh of the data or passively such as the next time the client device refreshes a user interface. Returning to in this example each feedback display control shows a number value representing the total number of user feedback requests received from distinct users for a particular media item.

Returning to the exemplary third user interface shows a side panel that displays metadata for media items that have been ordered based on their feedback parameter values. In the side panel displays the Top 10 Voted Films i.e. the ten media items in the library of media items that have the highest feedback parameter values. The media items are displayed in rank order as shown by ranking . In the example of film number would be selected as the media item to add to the group of accessible media items were the method of to be applied. The information displayed in side panel may be dynamically updated e.g. may be based on the current or recently cached values of the feedback parameters such that if the media items ranked 2 and 3 had feedback parameters that differed by 1 and two more users expressed their feedback for the third ranked media item said media item would swap places with the second ranked media item. The side panel may comprise a feedback entry control and a feedback display control for each ranked media item in a similar manner to those shown for the Archived Films . The side panel shown in Figure is also displayed in the first user interface shown in . Here side panel also shows the Top 10 Voted Films wherein each ranked media item has a rank a title a feedback entry control and a feedback display control . The latter controls function in the same manner as controls and .

In a variation of the above described embodiment the media item selected based on the feedback parameter does not form part of the group of media items as described for example with reference to referred to hereafter as a first group of media items but instead forms part of a second group of one or more media items that is accessible by a user. The first and second groups of media items may be accessible to a user at the same time but the accessibility parameters need not be related for example the second group of media items may be accessible without access to the first group of media items. In this case the media item or items selected based on the feedback parameter may be available for a specified period of time for example a time limited period such as a particular day or weekend. This may occur at regularly or irregularly scheduled intervals for example at the end of every month.

In another variation the media items in the library of media items may comprise media items that were previously accessible to a user and whose availability has now expired. For example once a media item is removed from the first group of media items at step of it may for part of the library of media items. In this manner when a user provides feedback data for a media item in the library of media items it can be thought of as voting to bring back a media item into the first group or into accessibility.

In another variation the feedback parameter and or feedback control may be supplied and managed by a third party e.g. a party other than the media supplier. For example one or more social networking sites may offer APIs or HTML code to share or publish a reference to the media item to one or more network users. In this case the values for the feedback parameters may be retrieved via an API call on data stored by the third party. More than one set of feedback parameters may also be used for example a cumulative feedback parameter may be used for the selection of a media item that sums individual feedback parameter values from a variety of third parties. For example the feedback entry control may provide an option to publish a reference to the media item on a social networking site a short messaging service or via email. The user may choose one or more of these options. In certain cases if the user chooses more than one of these options the cumulative feedback parameter is only incremented by one for that particular user. In summary certain embodiments and variations describe a video on demand subscription service that offers subscribers a continuously rotating selection of media items e.g. films which are available for viewing. In a particular implementation each day a new media item is added to a selection of available media items referred to herein as a first group of media items. The new media item is thus subsequently made available to watch for a period of time. Correspondingly each day in the same implementation a media that has been available to watch for the period of time is removed from the group of media items. In additional embodiments subscribers can view a listing of all media items that have previously expired and vote to bring back certain media items and make them available again. In certain embodiments and variations at any given time a subscriber has access to watch a first group of available media items. The selection includes a certain number of media items equal to the number of days that a single media item is made available. For example if a single media is made available to watch for a 30 day period the first group of available media items contains 30 items at one time. While a media item is part of the first group of available media items a subscriber can watch the media item as many times as desired at any date or time. These embodiments have the added benefit that the content licensing costs of the media provider are greatly reduced as content only need to be licensed a limited period of time i.e. the period of time that each media item is available.

In certain embodiments and variations each day at a specified time e.g. midnight a new media item is added to the first group of available media items. On the day that the media item is added it is highlighted to users and may be supplemented with editorial content pertaining to the media item. After its addition to the first group the media item is then available to watch for a specified period. Each subsequent day the number of days remaining in this period may be communicated to the subscriber i.e. the user .

In certain embodiments and variations each day at the same time that a new media item is added to the first group a media item in the first group that has been shown for the full specified period of time e.g. 30 days expires and is removed from said group.

In certain embodiments and variations a number of user interfaces may be provided. A first user interface may display information about the highlighted media item added that day as well as a digest of several media items from the first group including recently added media items media items about to expire and media items recommended to the user based on their tastes i.e. based on data relating to user that represents said tastes. The user can also access a second user interface that displays the entire selection of available media items displayed in order of time left until expiration i.e. in order of availability parameter values.

In certain embodiments and variations all users can access a third user interface showing an archive or library or media items. This third user interface may display information about all media items that have been previously available. Additionally in some embodiments users can vote to bring back any individual media item wherein the media items with the most user votes are displayed in a ranking on one or more of the user interfaces. On a regular basis the top voted media item or certain top voted media items may be made available to subscribers again for a specified period of time e.g. one day .

The above embodiments are to be understood as illustrative examples of the invention. Further embodiments of the invention are envisaged. For example media items may comprise text data audio data video data interactive data or a combination of these forms for example games or other interactive content. Authentication and or authorization may be based on a client device rather than a user for example based on a unique client device identifier and thus authentication and or authorization may occur transparently to a user. Even though the examples above have been primarily presented in the context of a video or film streaming service the methods and apparatus can equally be applied to the downloading of media items as well as or instead of streaming. For example access to a media item instead of relating to allowed streaming of content may relate to permission to download and or play a media item downloaded to a client device. Even though the user interfaces described herein have been primarily described as HTML interfaces that are rendered on a browser any graphical textual or audio user interface may be used including application interfaces and non HTML interfaces. The controls described herein further need not be graphical for example they may be activated orally i.e. using voice control based on audio cues or they may be purely textual. Even though separate server entities such as authorization server media server and metadata server have been described their functionality may be provided by one or more server devices with a differing arrangement. For example in certain cases the authorization server and the metadata server may comprise a common server with one or more computer implemented procedures. In certain cases the function of media server may be subsumed into one or more of the authorization server and the metadata server for example this may be the case where a media item is provided by a CDN instead of the media server . It is to be understood that any feature described in relation to any one embodiment may be used alone or in combination with other features described and may also be used in combination with one or more features of any other of the embodiments or any combination of any other of the embodiments. Furthermore equivalents and modifications not described above may also be employed without departing from the scope of the invention which is defined in the accompanying claims.

