---

title: Identifying movements using a motion sensing device coupled with an associative memory
abstract: A kinematic system. The system includes a kinematic measurement device having one or more sensors configured to detect a plurality of physical positions of a part of an object. The system also includes an associative memory, in communication with the kinematic measurement device, and comprising a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data, wherein the plurality of data is collected into associated groups, wherein the associative memory is configured to be queried based on at least indirect relationships among the plurality of data. The system also includes a processor, in communication with the associative memory and the kinematic measurement device, and configured to translate a range of coordinate positions of the part of the object to a qualitative description that names the range, wherein the processor is further configured to provide the qualitative description to the associative memory for storage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298269&OS=09298269&RS=09298269
owner: THE BOEING COMPANY
number: 09298269
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140410
---
The present disclosure relates generally to associative memories and in particular a system and method for identifying movements using a motion sensing device coupled with an associative memory.

Detecting an individual s movements for the purpose of providing feedback to that individual concerning their movements can be very challenging as there are many obstacles to be overcome. For example the kinematic measuring device used to measure the position of a human body should capture enough relevant information so that an accurate decision can be made concerning a particular movement. Additionally the information captured should be concise and analyzed quickly so that the information can be relayed back to the individual in real time. Still further the system should be able to function in a real world environment where people are unpredictable and their movements are often sporadic. These and other issues are addressed by the illustrative embodiments described below.

The illustrative embodiments provide for a kinematic system. The system includes a kinematic measurement device having one or more sensors configured to detect a plurality of physical positions of a part of an object. The system also includes an associative memory in communication with the kinematic measurement device and comprising a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data wherein the plurality of data is collected into associated groups wherein the associative memory is configured to be queried based on at least indirect relationships among the plurality of data. The system also includes a processor in communication with the associative memory and the kinematic measurement device and configured to translate a range of coordinate positions of the part of the object to a qualitative description that names the range wherein the processor is further configured to provide the qualitative description to the associative memory for storage.

The illustrative embodiments also provide for a method. The method includes detecting quantitatively a physical position of a part of an object using a kinematic measurement device wherein a quantitative measurement is taken. The method also includes translating using a processor in communication with the kinematic measurement device the quantitative measurement to a qualitative description of the physical position. The method also includes providing the qualitative description to an associative memory comprising a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data wherein the plurality of data is collected into associated groups wherein the associative memory is configured to be queried based on at least indirect relationships among the plurality of data the associative memory embodied on a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

The illustrative embodiments also provide for a computer. The computer includes a kinematic measurement device configured to detect quantitatively a physical position of a part of an object by taking a quantitative measurement of the object. The computer also includes a processor in communication with the kinematic measurement device the processor configured to translate the quantitative measurement to a qualitative description of the physical position. The computer also includes an associative memory in communication with the processor the associative memory configured to store the qualitative description the associative memory comprising a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data wherein the plurality of data is collected into associated groups wherein the associative memory is configured to be queried based on at least indirect relationships among the plurality of data the associative memory embodied on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The processor is further configured to compare the qualitative description to a set of movements for the object. The processor is further configured to determine a particular movement of the object based on the qualitative description.

The illustrative embodiments provide several useful functions. For example the illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that kinematic measurement devices may be data intensive and thus not desirable for certain applications. For example if one desired to use a hand portable computer to measure positions of a person and then alert that person if a movement or set of movements was considered undesirable then using raw kinematic data for this application may be problematic.

The illustrative embodiments also recognize and take into account that associative memories are useful for comparing qualitative data items. For example an associative memory can compare a group of terms known to the associative memory to an unknown term and determine which member of the group most closely matches the unknown term. The illustrative embodiments take advantage of this capability by translating quantitative kinematic measurements to qualitative terms storing the qualitative terms in an associative memory and then using the associative memory to determine in qualitative terms what movements have been detected.

The illustrative embodiment solves the issues of capturing enough data speed of processing and accounting for a user s sometimes sporadic movements by using an associative memory to classify movements obtained through a motion sensor with previous recordings of desired and undesired movements. In some illustrative embodiments the user need only demonstrate a good and a bad movement to train the system to learn the mechanics of both. Then the system can be moved from area to area to track different movements of the user with very little overhead in terms of processing power.

By analogy the illustrative embodiments could work like an active speed sign on a residential street. Drivers see the posted speed and their actual speed. The discrepancy of the two speeds could be enough to persuade the driver to slow down. After a time the active speed sign can be removed because the community has learned a new behavior. Likewise the user may be reminded to avoid undesirable movements and instead replace them with desirable movements.

Attention is now turned to the term associative memory . As used herein the term associative memory refers to a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data. The plurality of data and the plurality of associations may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The plurality of data may be collected into associated groups. The associative memory may be configured to be queried based on at least indirect relationships among the plurality of data in addition to direct correlations among the plurality of data. The associative memory may also be configured to be queried based on direct relationships as well as combinations of direct and indirect relationships.

Associative memory technology is the process by which information is collected into associated groups in the interest of gaining new insight based on relationships rather than direct correlation. An associative memory may be characterized as a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data. The plurality of data may be collected into associated groups. Further the associative memory may be configured to be queried based on at least one relationship selected from a group that includes direct and indirect relationships or from among the plurality of data in addition to direct correlations among the plurality of data. An associative memory may also take the form of software. Thus an associative memory also may be considered a process by which information is collected into associated groups in the interest of gaining new insight based on relationships rather than direct correlation.

As used herein the term entity refers to an object that has a distinct separate existence though such existence need not be a material existence. Thus abstractions and legal constructs may be regarded as entities. As used herein an entity need not be animate.

Nevertheless the exemplary use illustrated in includes using data collected from motion sensing input device to track movements of individual . The movements are fed into associative memory using semantics associative memory best understands. These semantics may be classified with previous recordings of desirable movements and undesirable movements . The illustrative embodiments use this information to determine if the current movements of individual are desirable or undesirable. If the individual s movements are not desirable such as indicated by symbol then the illustrative embodiments may generate alert to remind individual that his or her current movements may be undesirable.

More generally motion sensing input device may be any apparatus used to detect changes in position of an object relative to its surroundings or the change in the surroundings relative to an object. In a specific example which does not necessarily limit the claims motion sensing input device may be a product that is commercially available off the shelf. Motion sensing input device may be normally used for playing video games such as in for example. However motion sensing input device may be an accelerometer a camera system or any other suitable technology for detecting the movement of one or more persons or objects in an area. Thus for example motion sensing input device may be used to track positions of a robot. In this case the illustrative embodiments may determine whether movements of the robot are within design parameters.

Additionally the illustrative embodiments are not necessarily limited to determination of whether a movement or a set of movements are considered desirable or undesirable. Any classification system may be used as described further below.

Generally classification is the task of identifying to which one of a set of categories a new observation belongs. This identification or determination may be made on the basis of a training set of data containing observations or instances whose category membership is known.

For example without necessarily limiting the claimed inventions the illustrative embodiments may be used to determine whether the detected movement refers to texting talking on the phone walking using a handrail or any other particular physical activity. The set of possible outcomes may be texting talking on the phone walking or using a handrail. A determination is made whether the detected movement refers to one member of this set. This determination may be made using an associative memory on the basis of a training set of data containing observations or instances whose category membership is known. In other words the associative memory has been trained to recognize a particular set of input data as being associated with texting . In each of these cases the detected movement may be used to generate an alert if a particular movement is detected.

In the case of an object the illustrative embodiments may be used to detect specific positions orientations and or movements of a robot or of a vehicle assuming that object can be recognized by an input device. Thus the illustrative embodiments are not necessarily limited to use with a human and are not necessarily limited to any particular classification system such as desirable or undesirable . Accordingly for any example used herein that refers to determining whether a human user s movements are considered desirable or undesirable one may automatically assume that the other uses and classification systems described above could have been used instead.

Attention is first turned to what is meant by the term classification . Classification as used herein is defined as the ability to identify or the act of identifying to which group of objects a new observation belongs by comparing a new observation s characteristics to a known set of characteristics. As used in the illustrative embodiments the known characteristics are established by training the system. Training the system as used herein is defined as the ability to define or the act of defining for the system the characteristics of the known members of the set. When the system is trained the system may then quickly compare a new observation s characteristics to the set of known members characteristics and then equate the new observation as being the one of the known members of the set which most closely matches the new observation s characteristics. As used herein the system or the illustrative embodiments refer to a processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and or other physical equipment used or usable to implement the illustrative embodiments including possibly a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing program code for implementing the motion capture and classification system described herein.

Returning to this figure illustrates an example of classification with respect to an email system. In this case the system classifies incoming email as either retained email or junk email based on certain characteristics. Thus classification has two known members in the set of known members. These known members are retained email and junk email . The system has been trained by establishing first characteristics of retained email and second characteristics of junk email . The system is then programmed to compare third characteristics of a new observation which is an incoming email to the first characteristics of retained email and the second characteristics of junk email . The new observation is then classified as either belonging to retained email or junk email .

Again the characteristics that make up each category retained email or junk email are already known. For example retained email typically comes from a recognized sender. Thus retained email has as one characteristic a recognized sender. Other characteristics are also possible. Conversely junk email typically has a characteristic that it does not come from a recognized sender. Junk email often also has other characteristics such as the presence of words used in solicitation to sell a product or service. Depending on the number of common matches between characteristics of the new observation and characteristics of the known set of members the system will establish the appropriate category to place the incoming email.

In the terminology of machine learning a classification system is considered an instance of supervised learning that is learning where a training set of correctly identified observations is available. The corresponding unsupervised procedure is known as clustering or cluster analysis. Cluster analysis may involve grouping data into categories based on some measure of inherent similarity. An example of measures includes the distance between instances considered as vectors in a multi dimensional vector space.

As described above the illustrative embodiments may use kinematic detection system to movements of user . Motion sensing input devices such as motion sensing input device of may be used as part of kinematic detection system to detect a change in position of user relative to his or her surroundings .

Typically motion sensing input devices such as kinematic detection system include software which displays the Cartesian coordinates of where the detected movement took place. This display could take the form of a stick person such as stick person or may not be visually represented at all. In either case the illustrative embodiments may use the measured coordinates to calculate the movements of user .

In order to gauge the subject s movements the illustrative embodiments may correlate the coordinates of a position shared by all parties that is to say the illustrative embodiments may compare hand movements to hand movements. The measurements can be further normalized if desired. For example the illustrative embodiments could also use the distance between parts of the body which are relatively static such as the center hip to the spine in normalizing the the measurements.

The illustrative embodiments assume that the movement drawings such as snapshots describe an entire movement of a user even though they appear to be that of a single instance or single snapshot . In other words the illustrative embodiments typically do not operate with a single snapshot such as single snapshot but rather with snapshots .

Typical examples of the illustrative embodiments operate under a number of assumptions. In some cases these assumptions may be varied.

For example the illustrative embodiments typically rely on a novel application of a motion sensing input device coupled with an associative memory rather than the core technologies that one uses to accomplish these processes. However in some cases the illustrative embodiments may use modified or enhanced versions of these core technologies motion sensing input devices and associative memories.

The illustrative embodiments typically include the ability to classify an observation using an example of an associative memory classification. However the illustrative embodiments could be accomplished with any sort of classification mechanism and are not limited to only the use of an associative memory.

The illustrative embodiments typically use human body joints as points of articulation. However any position or spot on the body could be used as long as these positions or spots correspond to a movement. In the case of robots or vehicles or for tracking the position of other articulating objects any points of articulation could be used. More generally any points on any object could be used for tracking movements though points of articulation are often more convenient.

The illustrative embodiments include the ability to detect movements by using an interface to a motion sensing input device. This interface can vary in scope and functionality but preserves the job of defining the coordinates of a movement in whatever capacity the motion sensing input device can handle. In most cases the illustrative embodiments need not make any attempt to define when a movement starts or ends.

The illustrative embodiments typically do not define the placement or location of the motion sensing input device with regards to the quality of the movement captured. The illustrative embodiments assume proper operation of such devices.

The illustrative embodiments are generally not limited to identifying only one desirable movement and one undesirable movement. Instead many different types of movements could be analyzed and classified. Additionally the illustrative embodiments may be used in many different applications other than applications for determining whether a motion of a user or object is desirable or undesirable. For example the illustrative embodiments may be used in the field of security to determine whether movement of some object violates a set of pre defined parameters or moves past a certain distance. The illustrative embodiments may be used in manufacturing to determine whether movement of objects along an assembly line are within defined parameters. The illustrative embodiments have many other applications. The illustrative embodiments may be used in the medical arts such as to assist a patient in physical therapy to perform desirable movements more consistently.

The illustrative embodiments do not necessarily limit how a movement is recorded. In other words the illustrative embodiments may work with many different data structures. The illustrative embodiments may capture a sequence of changes and save them in any convenient manner perhaps within a database in memory within a file or any convenient data structure.

Again one exemplary use of the illustrative embodiments is to determine if an identified movement is desirable or not using a motion sensing input device coupled with an associative memory. To accomplish this goal the illustrative embodiments feed data collected from a motion sensing input device into an associative memory. Before processing the data the illustrative embodiments transform the data into a vernacular the memory best understands. In other words the illustrative embodiments transform quantitative measurements into qualitative descriptions.

Then the associative memory classifies the new movement by using a collection of previously recorded desirable and undesirable movements. The previously recorded movements represent truth data used to train the system. When a new observation is introduced the system uses the characteristics of the training or truth data to determine if the new observation is desirable or not. The illustrative embodiments would operate in a similar manner when using other classification systems or for other applications.

In order for an associative memory classification to work most efficiently the information gathered from the recording process should be as complete and accurate as reasonably possible. A classification scheme will be more useful if relevant data is compared otherwise the results produced may not be trustworthy. As a result collecting only the coordinates themselves is often not sufficient because many of the coordinates could be frequently represented in multiple sets of movements as shown by common points .

Thus the illustrative embodiments may be used to collect information calculated from tracked coordinates and transform this information into semantics that best exploit the benefits of an associative memory. For example the distance from one joint to another could be interpreted as near nearer nearest or far further furthest. These terms could then be manipulated by the associative memory to produce better classifications. The lists below not withstanding provides some designations on how coordinates could be transformed into associative memory semantics.

For use in an associative memory use of qualitative descriptors may be more useful when comparing to known or training positions. Thus from the coordinates collected the illustrative embodiments may calculate quantitative distances defined as the length between one joint to another. Qualitatively described ranges of measurements may be assigned qualitative descriptors such as FAR FARTHER FARTHEST or NEAR NEARER NEAREST. For example the distance from the right wrist to the left shoulder could be described as FARTHER when the quantitative distance measurements are within one particular range but described as NEAREST within another range.

Likewise relative locations may also be qualitatively expressed based on quantitative measurements. For example comparing the coordinates collected with the dimensions of the screen the illustrative embodiments could determine a general location for a body part such as TOP MIDDLE BOTTOM combined with RIGHT CENTER LEFT. In a more specific example the right foot may be located in the lower right section of the screen so it could be labeled as BOTTOM RIGHT. In the case of dynamic movements the location could be excluded allowing the embodiment to more easily classify moving objects.

Similarly directions may also be assigned qualitative descriptors based on quantitative measurements. For example from the coordinates collected the illustrative embodiments could also determine a direction of one joint to another such as NORTH SOUTH WEST or EAST. In a more specific example the head may be located NORTH WEST of the right foot.

Additional or different terminologies could be used as well such as degrees or angles. Furthermore terms could be grouped together to create a single attribute or a combination of attributes. For example the qualitative descriptor TOP LEFT NEAREST NORTH FAR EAST could be used as a single attribute to describe the relationship between the left hand and the head as indicated by arrows .

For the purpose of movements the use of more reference points may improve the outcome of the illustrative embodiments. For example when evaluating a movement one could use the twenty joints for a person as outlined in . However more or fewer reference points could be used in other illustrative embodiments.

The illustrative embodiments also recognize that in some cases excluding certain joints points of articulation or measurement points may be desirable. For example some measurement points might not add value to a classification system. For example a movement could occur at a desk where the lower extremities are not visible or not of interest and as a result those joints need not be processed.

The overall process of capturing a movement and deciding if the movement is desirable or undesirable involves a few logical steps described further below. For the purpose of clarity each step is described in the context of using the example of picking up an object wherein bending with one s back is considered undesirable but bending with one s knees is considered desirable. However the illustrative embodiments should not be limited to this specific example but instead the illustrative embodiments contemplate many different classification schemes and movement types.

However prior to data capture the illustrative embodiments contemplate training the associative memory in a particular classification system. In other words a first step to the illustrative embodiments may be to train the associative memory in a particular classification system by use of a motion sensing input device to capture a series of movements that a person designates as desirable and another series of movements that a person designates as undesirable. During the training session a user could record several example movements and label them as desirable or not depending on what was observed. These exemplary movements may be referred to as trained movements.

Thereafter the user performs a new movement or perhaps performs several new movements. The new movement is an unknown movement that will be compared to the trained movements as described below.

The new movement is quantitatively measured using a kinematic input device. In other words the kinematic input device outputs quantitative data or series of mathematic measured coordinates of the points of articulation. This quantitative data which is the coordinates of the points of articulation that are being measured is saved in a data structure.

For example the numbers in columns represent quantitative data measured by a kinematic input device of movements of points of articulation on a person. The points of articulation are listed in column . Thus for example range of quantitative measurements 316 332 1383 in the first row of columns relate to quantitative measurements of the movement of the hips of a person. In this case the point of articulation is assigned the descriptor HIP CENTER as shown in the first row of column . This information is provided by the motion sensor and collected locally within a data structure of some type perhaps within a database on a file or in memory.

In divider is provided to indicate a translation from the quantitative measurements to the qualitative descriptions. Note that there is not a direct correspondence between the rows shown to the left of divider and the rows shown to the right of divider .

As mentioned above for each point of articulation the quantitative data is translated into a qualitative description. Additionally or alternatively the qualitative description may have a label that represents a relationship between one point of articulation and another point of articulation with respect to a movement. This label may be assigned to a category that represents a type of relationship between one point of articulation and another.

Continuing the above example category may be DIRECTION OF HIP CENTER TO WRIST LEFT . Category contains information describing a relationship between two points of articulation the HIP CENTER and the WRIST LEFT and specifically describing in qualitative terms a series of positions of the left wrist relative to another series of positions of the hip. Both of the points of articulation used in this example HIP CENTER and WRIST LEFT are shown in column and the corresponding quantitative measurements for these points of articulation are shown in columns . However these quantitative measurements have been translated into qualitative descriptions as indicated by the arrow in divider .

In any case qualitative descriptions are provided within a category . Again these qualitative descriptions each have a corresponding label that indicates a specific relationship for example between the center of the hip and the left wrist during a movement. For example label represents at least part of a movement in which the direction of the center of the hip to the left wrist is CENTER BOTTOM FAIRLY SOUTH NEARER WEST . This label represents a qualitative description of the position of the left wrist relative to the hip.

A purpose of is to illustrate translation of numerically measured coordinates into qualitative terms. Thus only shows a limited set of points of articulation numbers categories of relationships and labels. Many more or possibly fewer of each may be present in an actual application or read into the claims. Different kinds of relationships and points of articulation may also be present and possibly some or all of these points of articulation numbers categories of relationships and labels may be absent. Thus does not necessarily limit the claimed inventions but rather is a representative example to demonstrate one mode of operation of the illustrative embodiments.

With this caveat in mind the verbiage of the qualitative descriptions used to describe the measurements should provide enough distinct information to make a classification as accurately as desired even though the associative memory will be comparing the values associated to the qualitative labels to each other. However regardless of the number type and form of qualitative descriptions and labels used these qualitative descriptions their labels and their categories are inserted or stored into an associative memory for further processing.

For example the qualitative descriptors and categories for an unknown movement may be compared to corresponding qualitative descriptors and categories of the set of trained movements. By identifying the most number of matches in qualitative descriptors the associative memory may classify the unknown movement. In particular the specific trained movement that most closely matches the unknown movement in terms of matching qualitative descriptors is identified. The unknown movement is then categorized as being that specific trained movement. Thereafter an alert or feedback may be generated depending on whether the user is being trained to avoid certain undesirable movements or perhaps to imitate certain desirable movements.

Again the list shown to the right of divider provides a list of possible relationships between the user s hip to the user s left wrist based on actual coordinates provided by the motion sensor. These relationships provide qualitative terms so the associative memory may more quickly compare an unknown set of movements to a trained set of movements. In addition using qualitative terms allows an associative memory to incorporate analytical tools such as word parsers and name lists which could prove beneficial when analyzing the movements.

For the bending example described above the user could make a set of two kinds of recordings. One set of movements may relate to an undesirable movement such as picking up an object while bending with their back. The other set of movements may relate to a desirable movement such as bending with the knees when picking up the object. Each movement would be labeled as such either desirable or undesirable in this classification schema. Again the illustrative embodiments are not limited to this example or classification schema.

As demonstrated in a desirable movement might contain a somewhat straight back as shown by the set of articulation points in circle with bent knees as shown by set of articulation points . In contrast an undesirable movement might contain a bent back as shown by set of articulation points in circle with straight knees as shown by set of articulation points in circle . Again the user trains the associative memory to recognize these particular movements or postures as being desirable or undesirable. Once the training movements are captured they are ingested into an associative memory to form the foundation of a classification schema.

Again a second step in an illustrative process may be to capture an unknown movement in order to later classify that unknown movement. The unknown movement is recorded in the same fashion as the training movements except the unknown movement is not labeled or labeled as unknown . shows that each point of articulation or point is associated with a qualitative descriptor for a name and then a numerical measurement of the position or set of positions for that point as shown by the text in the area of arrow . The purpose of this illustration is to demonstrate what kind of information could be initially captured by a motion sensing device. However the illustrative embodiments may only need the labels and their corresponding coordinates to operate.

In some but not all cases criteria may be used to help the classification system make better comparisons. Thus the illustrative embodiments provide the user the ability to influence the determination or outcome made by the associative memory through the use of comparison criteria such as criteria . Criteria may be used to inform the system which attribute categories to use when making a comparison or to weight certain attribute categories more than others. For example the comparison criteria of the illustrative embodiments may be used to reduce the importance of the attribute distance from the head to the left shoulder when making its determination. The system can generate criteria itself and further can provide the relative weighting itself but input from the user could provide better results.

For the purpose of identifying movements the illustrative embodiments may incorporate criteria which focus on but are not limited to distances locations and directions of each joint. For distances and directions each criterion represents a connection between two joints. Examples include the distance from the left hand to the right hand or the direction of the left shoulder with respect to the right elbow. Consequently capture of the value of the reciprocal movement or of the movement unto itself may not be necessary.

In any case a user may assigns weights to each category. These weights may indicate a relative importance from low to high of a particular category when comparing the unknown movement to the training movements. Selecting a weight may strengthen a particularly category s association with other attributes thereby giving that category more or less importance.

Each weight may correspond to a level of importance represented as a range of checkboxes though other means for accepting input may be provided and different kinds of input may be provided. A user could weigh lesser categories towards the lower end or not weigh them at all. Conversely a user could weigh important or relevant categories towards the higher end. A weight that is not selected may be assigned a default weight of medium but could be assigned any default weight.

The illustrative embodiments may also supply a range for numeric categories. The range permits the corresponding category value to match within a certain percentage allowing for more associations.

If the user chooses not to input any comparison criteria the system may automatically select comparison criteria for them. Using an associative memory internal algorithm the associative memory may select what it determines are the best criteria based on information gathered from the data.

In the alternative the entire process of assigning criteria may be skipped. Thus Step of the illustrative process may be considered optional.

The purpose of this step is to label the unknown movement as either desirable or not. The associative memory classifies the unknown movement by matching the unknown movement s characteristics with those of the known characteristics previously recorded during the training conducted in Step . As a result the system will choose the qualitative descriptor or label from the available set of movements that most closely matches the unknown movement.

For the bending example described above the unknown movement in Step identifies most with that of an undesirable movement as illustrated by stick person in . This determination is made from the characteristics of each movement.

However in a real situation a movement of the user may be difficult to classify because of sporadic movements or because the movement does not closely resemble either the desirable or undesirable movement. Nevertheless as shown in the unknown movement may resemble the undesirable movement more than it does the desirable movement. Specifically the unknown movement represented by stick person more closely represents the undesirable movement of stick person than the desirable movement of stick person . Accordingly the illustrative embodiments classify the movement of stick person as undesirable based on the characteristics of the movements.

Again each stick person shown in represents entire movements and not just a single instance or snapshot. The illustrative embodiments may be less concerned about specific body poses in points in time and more concerned with relative movements.

After identification and verification of the unknown movement the unknown movement can be fed back into the associative memory as a known observation. This process provides the associative memory a feedback mechanism to improve the training set. This feedback process may be considered an additional optional step in the above process.

After identification of the unknown movement the fifth and final step is to alert the user. The user may be alerted via auditory or visual stimuli or both or through the use of other stimuli. In any case the user may be alerted if the movement is undesirable. The user may also be alerted if the movement is desirable. In this manner the user may be able to learn new habits. The user may be alerted using any desirable stimulus or stimuli including visual auditory mild thermal mild electrical mild vibrational and other forms of stimuli.

One possible physical embodiment of the illustrative embodiments is illustrated in though other physical embodiments are possible. As shown kinematic detection system uses motion sensor connected to processor that executes the software used to implement the illustrative embodiments. The computer containing processor may include training button used to activate the training mode. The computer may also include switch used to indicate if the movement being recorded is going to be desirable or not.

Kinematic detection system could include power cord or a battery. Kinematic detection system could also include network cord or a wireless device connecting kinematic detection system to a network. In any case kinematic detection system may communicate with an associative memory database or any other system used to implement the illustrative embodiments. However in some illustrative embodiments all the software used may be contained within processor itself. In other illustrative embodiments the software may instead be embodied as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Kinematic detection system may include other optional devices or objects. For example kinematic detection system may include stand or be placed somewhere motion sensor could easily observe movements. Kinematic detection system also could include light used to indicate if a movement was desirable or not. In addition an audible sound coming from speaker could be triggered when an undesirable move is detected.

Finally plug in laptop tablet mobile phone or other computer system could be used to help configure or optimize kinematic detection system . In addition plug in laptop could also be used to update software as desired.

One possible implementation of the illustrative embodiments is to use a structured query language SQL database to record the movements and an associative memory to classify them. For this implementation a user may set up a pre defined database and insert training data as a series of transformed snapshots and labeling the data accordingly. Along with the training data the user could include the unknown movements as well and label them as unknown.

The data is then ingested into the associative memory. Once ingested the user could initiate the associative memory to perform an entity comparison on the unknown movement to locate labeled movements like it. The unknown movement would adopt the label of the most closely matching movement as shown in at arrow . Specifically arrow points to label undesirable indicating a specific type of undesirable movement. The score of 1.0 indicates a high probability that the unknown movement is undesirable . The common attributes between the unknown movement and the known movement labeled as undesirable are listed in the common attributes section of . However other labels with lesser scores indicate a chance that the unknown movement has other common attributes with other labeled movements. In this case the unknown movement has attributes in common with undesirable undesirable and undesirable sorted according to the score. The score also shows how closely the unknown movement matches the corresponding label.

Thus the results of an entity comparison may be an ordered list of entities that are like or similar to the original or sought entity. An associative memory may collect all the matching attributes among these entities to formulate the list. The order of that list may depend on the significance of the matching attributes. Additionally the ranking of the list may correlate to the number of attributes found. When comparing movements the matching attributes represent verbiage describing distances locations and directions all defined earlier when the unknown movement was recorded.

In this case the illustrative embodiments can run a comparison and display the resulting outcome. This result would differ from the implementation described above with respect to as there would be only two resulting attribute values desirable or undesirable. The system would filter the unknown outcome in order to force the unknown movement to correlate to one of the wanted results. Accordingly instead of seeing an entire list of attribute values such as undesirable undesirable undesirable undesirable in the user only sees outcomes of desirable and undesirable .

Thus only shows two outcomes desirable and undesirable . In contrast shows four outcomes could show many more or could show fewer.

With respect to a process is described as performing an action. As used herein a process is considered to be a non transitory processor or other physical device configured to perform the action described or may be considered to be a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer usable program code configured when executed to carry out the action described.

The process may be implemented in an associative memory comprising a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data. The plurality of data may be collected into associated groups. The associative memory may be configured to be queried based on at least indirect relationships among the plurality of data.

Optionally the process may begin by training the system operation . Operation is considered optional because the system may already be trained when a user implements process . If the system has not already been trained when process begins then the first step is to train the system. Techniques for training the system are described above such as for example the user demonstrating exemplary movements that are labeled as desirable or undesirable or labeled according to some other classification. The measurements taken with respect to these exemplary movements are then compared to a later unknown movement of the user in order to classify the unknown movement as being one of the exemplary movements earlier demonstrated by the user.

Thereafter or initially if training the system has already been conducted the process may detect quantitatively a physical position of a part of an object using a kinematic measurement device wherein a quantitative measurement is taken operation . The process may then translate using a processor in communication with the kinematic measurement device the quantitative measurement to a qualitative description of the physical position operation . The process may then provide the qualitative description to an associative memory operation . The associative memory may be a plurality of data and a plurality of associations among the plurality of data wherein the plurality of data is collected into associated groups wherein the associative memory is configured to be queried based on at least indirect relationships among the plurality of data the associative memory embodied on a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

Optionally the process may compare using the processor in conjunction with the associative memory the qualitative description to a set of movements for the object operation . In this case the process may determine using the processor in conjunction with the associative memory a particular movement of the object based on the qualitative description operation .

Optionally the process may further include determining using the processor in conjunction with the associative memory whether the particular movement is one of satisfactory or unsatisfactory based on a criterion operation . In another illustrative embodiment the process may be responsive to a determination that the particular movement is unsatisfactory provide an alert to a user operation . Alternatively the process may responsive a determination that the particular movement is satisfactory provide an indication to a user that the particular movement is satisfactory operation .

In an optional illustrative embodiment the object may be a body part of a person wherein the movement is a movement of the body of the person. In this case the process may responsive to a determination that the particular movement is unsatisfactory provide an alert to the person operation . In another illustrative embodiment the process may receive a user criteria from an input device in communication with the processor wherein determining the particular movement is modified based on the user criteria operation . The process may terminate thereafter.

System shown in may be implemented using one or more data processing systems possibly in a distributed or networked environment and possibly by a group of remotely administered data processing systems known as the cloud . Each of the one or more data processing systems that implement system may be data processing system described with respect to or variations thereof. System may be characterized as including one or more blocks. Each of these blocks may be separate or may be part of a monolithic architecture.

System may include associative memory . Associative memory may include plurality of data and plurality of associations among the plurality of data . Plurality of data may be collected into associated groups . Associative memory may be configured to be queried based on indirect relationships among plurality of data in addition to direct correlations among plurality of data .

Associative memory may store entities . Associative memory may also store relationships both direct and indirect among those entities . Associative memory may also store individual information about each of entities .

System may also include kinematic measurement device . Kinematic measurement device may have one or more sensors configured to detect a plurality of physical positions of a part of object . Kinematic measurement device may be in communication with associative memory .

System may also include processor in communication with the associative memory and kinematic measurement device . Processor may be configured to translate a range of coordinate positions of the part of the object to a qualitative description that names the range. Processor may be further configured to provide the qualitative description to associative memory for storage.

The illustrative embodiments described with respect to may be varied. For example processor in conjunction with associative memory may be configured to output an assessment of the object based on the qualitative description. In this case assessment may be a comparison of the qualitative description to a set of pre determined qualitative descriptions. The set of pre determined qualitative descriptions may have corresponding qualitative descriptions of movements of the object. The output further may include a particular pre determined qualitative description of a movement of the object that most closely matches the qualitative description. Processor further may be configured to modify the comparison based on a criteria selected by a user.

System may be modified in still further ways. For example processor may be further configured to translate a plurality of additional ranges of corresponding sets of coordinate positions of additional parts of the object to corresponding additional qualitative descriptions that name the plurality of additional ranges. In this case processor may be further configured to provide the corresponding additional qualitative descriptions to associative memory for storage. Additionally processor in conjunction with associative memory may be further configured to output an assessment of the object based on a combination of the qualitative description and the corresponding additional qualitative descriptions.

In a more specific example object may be a person the part is a body part and the additional parts are additional body parts. In this case the qualitative description may be a position of the body part and the corresponding additional qualitative descriptions are other positions of the additional body parts. Likewise the assessment may be a determination of whether a combination of the position and the other positions is one of satisfactory or unsatisfactory based on a criterion. The position and the other positions together comprise a single movement of a body of the person.

Kinematic measurement device associative memory and processor may be further configured to take additional movements of the body of the person over a time frame. In this case the assessment may be a determination of whether the single movement and the additional movements together constitute satisfactory or unsatisfactory behaviors related to moving the body.

In another illustrative embodiment system may further include physical input device . Physical input device may be configured to receive a plurality of movements of object and receive a user designation naming the plurality of movements. In this case associative memory may be configured to be trained to recognize a future unknown movement of object based on a comparison of the user designation and the future unknown movement. This technique may reduce or avoid coding that normally would be necessary to recognize the future unknown movement.

The illustrative embodiments shown in are not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Other components in addition to and or in place of the ones illustrated may be used. Some components may be unnecessary in some illustrative embodiments. Also the blocks are presented to illustrate some functional components. One or more of these blocks may be combined and or divided into different blocks when implemented in different illustrative embodiments.

System shown in may be implemented using one or more data processing systems possibly in a distributed or networked environment and possibly by a group of remotely administered data processing systems known as the cloud . Each of the one or more data processing systems that implement system may be data processing system described with respect to or variations thereof. System may be characterized as including one or more blocks. Each of these blocks may be separate or may be part of a monolithic architecture.

System may include associative memory . Associative memory may include plurality of data and plurality of associations among the plurality of data . Plurality of data may be collected into associated groups . Associative memory may be configured to be queried based on indirect relationships among plurality of data in addition to direct correlations among plurality of data .

Associative memory may store entities . Associative memory may also store relationships both direct and indirect among those entities . Associative memory may also store individual information about each of entities .

System may also include kinematic measurement device . Kinematic measurement device may be configured to detect quantitatively a physical position of part of object by taking a quantitative measurement of object .

System also may include processor in communication with kinematic measurement device . Processor may be configured to translate the quantitative measurement to a qualitative description of the physical position. Processor may be further configured to compare the qualitative description to a set of movements for object . Processor may be further configured to determine a particular movement of object based on the qualitative description.

The illustrative embodiment shown in may be further varied. For example the illustrative embodiments shown in may be varied according to techniques similar to those described with respect to .

The illustrative embodiments shown in are not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Other components in addition to and or in place of the ones illustrated may be used. Some components may be unnecessary in some illustrative embodiments. Also the blocks are presented to illustrate some functional components. One or more of these blocks may be combined and or divided into different blocks when implemented in different illustrative embodiments.

Turning now to an illustration of a data processing system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data processing system in is an example of a data processing system that may be used to implement the illustrative embodiments such as motion sensing input device of processor or optional plug in laptop of processor of processor of or any other module or system or process disclosed herein. In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications fabric which provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display .

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . This software may be any of the associative memories described elsewhere herein or software for implementing the processes described elsewhere herein. Thus for example software loaded into memory may be software for executing process of or implementing the five steps described above or implementing the illustrative embodiments shown in or . Processor unit may be a number of processors a multi processor core or some other type of processor depending on the particular implementation. A number as used herein with reference to an item means one or more items. Further processor unit may be implemented using a number of heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices . A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information such as for example without limitation data program code in functional form and or other suitable information either on a temporary basis and or a permanent basis. Storage devices may also be referred to as computer readable storage devices in these examples. Memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation.

For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.

Input output I O unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output I O unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard a mouse and or some other suitable input device. Further input output I O unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for the operating system applications and or programs may be located in storage devices which are in communication with processor unit through communications fabric . In these illustrative examples the instructions are in a functional form on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory .

These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or computer readable storage media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be computer readable storage media or computer readable signal media . Computer readable storage media may include for example an optical or magnetic disk that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage . Computer readable storage media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive a thumb drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . In some instances computer readable storage media may not be removable from data processing system .

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system using computer readable signal media . Computer readable signal media may be for example a propagated data signal containing program code . For example computer readable signal media may be an electromagnetic signal an optical signal and or any other suitable type of signal. These signals may be transmitted over communications links such as wireless communications links optical fiber cable coaxial cable a wire and or any other suitable type of communications link. In other words the communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples.

In some illustrative embodiments program code may be downloaded over a network to persistent storage from another device or data processing system through computer readable signal media for use within data processing system . For instance program code stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system may be downloaded over a network from the server to data processing system . The data processing system providing program code may be a server computer a client computer or some other device capable of storing and transmitting program code .

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown. The different embodiments may be implemented using any hardware device or system capable of running program code. As one example the data processing system may include organic components integrated with inorganic components and or may be comprised entirely of organic components excluding a human being. For example a storage device may be comprised of an organic semiconductor.

In another illustrative example processor unit may take the form of a hardware unit that has circuits that are manufactured or configured for a particular use. This type of hardware may perform operations without needing program code to be loaded into a memory from a storage device to be configured to perform the operations.

For example when processor unit takes the form of a hardware unit processor unit may be a circuit system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device or some other suitable type of hardware configured to perform a number of operations. With a programmable logic device the device is configured to perform the number of operations. The device may be reconfigured at a later time or may be permanently configured to perform the number of operations. Examples of programmable logic devices include for example a programmable logic array programmable array logic a field programmable logic array a field programmable gate array and other suitable hardware devices. With this type of implementation program code may be omitted because the processes for the different embodiments are implemented in a hardware unit.

In still another illustrative example processor unit may be implemented using a combination of processors found in computers and hardware units. Processor unit may have a number of hardware units and a number of processors that are configured to run program code . With this depicted example some of the processes may be implemented in the number of hardware units while other processes may be implemented in the number of processors.

As another example a storage device in data processing system is any hardware apparatus that may store data. Memory persistent storage and computer readable media are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally a communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example memory or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications fabric .

Data processing system may also include associative memory . Associative memory may be associative memory of or associative memory of or other associative memories described elsewhere herein and may have the properties described elsewhere herein. Associative memory may be in communication with communications fabric . Associative memory may also be in communication with or in some illustrative embodiments be considered part of storage devices . While one associative memory is shown additional associative memories may be present.

The different illustrative embodiments can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. Some embodiments are implemented in software which includes but is not limited to forms such as for example firmware resident software and microcode.

Furthermore the different embodiments can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any device or system that executes instructions. For the purposes of this disclosure a computer usable or computer readable medium can generally be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium can be for example without limitation an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or a propagation medium. Non limiting examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Optical disks may include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Further a computer usable or computer readable medium may contain or store a computer readable or usable program code such that when the computer readable or usable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable or usable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable or usable program code over a communications link. This communications link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing computer readable or computer usable program code will include one or more processors coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a communications fabric such as a system bus. The memory elements may include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some computer readable or computer usable program code to reduce the number of times code may be retrieved from bulk storage during execution of the code.

Input output or I O devices can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. These devices may include for example without limitation keyboards touch screen displays and pointing devices. Different communications adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Non limiting examples of modems and network adapters are just a few of the currently available types of communications adapters.

The description of the different illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further different illustrative embodiments may provide different features as compared to other illustrative embodiments. The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

