---

title: Droplet manipulation system and method
abstract: Methods are provided for manipulating droplets. The methods include providing the droplet on a surface comprising an array of electrodes and a substantially co-planer array of reference elements, wherein the droplet is disposed on a first one of the electrodes, and the droplet at least partially overlaps a second one of the electrodes and an intervening one of the reference elements disposed between the first and second electrodes. The methods further include activating the first and second electrodes to spread at least a portion of the droplet across the second electrode and deactivating the first electrode to move the droplet from the first electrode to the second electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09180450&OS=09180450&RS=09180450
owner: Advanced Liquid Logic, Inc.
number: 09180450
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140730
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 759 416 filed Feb. 5 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 494 927 filed Jun. 30 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 394 249 issued Mar. 12 2013 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 077 569 filed Mar. 10 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 569 129 issued Aug. 4 2009 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 253 368 filed Sep. 24 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 issued Jun. 29 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. F30602 98 2 0140 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is generally related to the field of droplet based liquid handling and processing such as droplet based sample preparation mixing and dilution on a microfluidic scale. More specifically the present invention relates to the manipulation of droplets by electrowetting based techniques.

Microfluidic systems are presently being explored for their potential to carry out certain processing techniques on capillary sized continuous flows of liquid. In particular there is currently great interest in developing microfluidic devices commonly referred to as chemistry on a chip sensors and analyzers which are also known as labs on a chip LoC and micro total analysis systems t TAS . The ultimate goal of research in this field is to reduce most common bio chemical laboratory procedures and equipment to miniaturized automated chip based formats thereby enabling rapid portable inexpensive and reliable bio chemical instrumentation. Applications include medical diagnostics environmental monitoring and basic scientific research.

On line monitoring of continuous flows is most often accomplished by connecting the output of the continuous flow to the input of a large analysis instrument such as a HIPLC high pressure liquid chromatography CE capillary electrophoresis or MS mass spectrometry system with appropriate flow control and valving for sample collection and injection. Microfluidic systems for continuous monitoring typically employ miniaturized analyte specific biosensors where the continuous flow stream passes over or through a series of the biosensors. Because the sensors lie in a common channel crosstalk or contamination between sensors is often a concern. In analyses where a reagent must be mixed with the flow only one analyte can be measured at a time unless the flow is divided into parallel streams with separate means for adding the reagent controlling and mixing the flow and carrying out detection in each stream. Additionally mixing in microfluidic flows is usually quite challenging. Sufficient time and distance must be provided for mixing which places constraints on chip design and system flow rates.

In general mixing is a fundamental process in chemical analysis and biological applications. Mixing in microfluidic devices is a critical step in realizing a TAS micro total analysis system or lab on a chip system. In accordance with the present invention described hereinbelow it is posited that mixing in these systems could be used for pre processing sample dilution or for reactions between sample and reagents in particular ratios. It is further posited that the ability to mix liquids rapidly while utilizing minimum chip area would greatly improve the throughput of such systems. The improved mixing would rely on two principles the ability to either create turbulent nonreversible flow at such small scales or create multilaminates to enhance mixing via diffusion.

Mixers can be broadly categorized into continuous flow and droplet based architectures. A common limitation among all continuous flow systems is that fluid transport is physically confined to permanently etched structures and additional mechanisms are required to enhance mixing. The transport mechanisms used are usually pressure driven by external pumps or electrokinetically driven by high voltage supplies. This in turn requires the use of valves and complex channeling consuming valuable real estate on a chip. These restrictions prevent the continuous flow micro mixer from becoming a truly self contained reconfigurable lab on a chip. Whereas conventional continuous flow systems rely on a continuous liquid flow in a confined channel droplet based systems utilize discrete volumes of liquid. Both the continuous flow and droplet based architectures can be further classified into passive and active mixers. In passive mixers mixing is mediated through diffusion passively without any external energy inputted for the process. Active mixing on the other hand takes advantage of external energy through actuation of some sort to create either dispersed multilaminates or turbulence. In the microscopic world effective mixing is a technical problem because it is difficult to generate turbulent flow by mechanical actuation. The inertial forces that produce turbulence and the resulting large interfacial surface areas necessary to promote mixing are absent. Thus mixing that depends on diffusion through limited interfacial areas is a limitation.

Recently active mixing by acoustic wave see Vivek et al. Novel acoustic micromixer MEMS 2000 p. 668 73 ultrasound see Yang et al. Ultrasonic micromixer for microfluidic systems MEMS 2000 p. 80 and a piezoelectrically driven valveless micropump see Yang et al. Micromixer incorporated with piezoelectrically driven valveless micropump Micro Total Analysis System 98 p. 177 180 have been proposed and their effectiveness has been demonstrated. Mixing by electroosmotic flow has also been described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 086 243 to Paul et al. Another mixing technique has been recently presented by employing chaotic advection for mixing. See Lee et al. Chaotic mixing in electrically and pressure driven microflows The 14IEEE workshop on MEMS 2001 p. 483 485 Liu et al Passive Mixing in a Three Dimensional Serpentine Microchannel J. of MEMS. Vol 9 No. 2 p. 190 197 June 2000 and Evans et al. Planar laminar mixer Proc. of IEEE The tenth annual workshop on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS 97 p. 96 101 1997 . Lee et al. focus on employing dielectrophoretic forces or pressure to generate chaotic advection while Liu et al. rely on the geometry of a microchannel to induce the similar advection. Evans et al. constructed a planar mixing chamber on the side of which an asymmetrical source and sink generate a flow field whereby small differences in a fluid particle s initial location leads to large differences in its final location. This causes chaotic rearrangement of fluid particles and thus the mixing two liquids. Most recently a technique has been proposed that uses electrohydrodynamic convection for active mixing. See Jin et al. An active micro mixer using electrohydrodynamic EHD convection for microfluidic based biochemical analysis Technical Digest Solid State Sensor and Actuator Workshop p. 52 55 .

Molecular diffusion plays an important role in small Reynolds number liquid flow. In general diffusion speed increases with the increase of the contact surface between two liquids. The time required for molecular diffusion increases in proposition to the square of the diffusion distance. A fast diffusion mixer consisting of a simple narrowing of a mixing channel has been demonstrated by Veenstra et al. Characterization method for a new diffusion mixer applicable in micro flow injection analysis systems J. Micromech. Microeng. Vol. 9 pg. 199 202 1999 . The primary approach for diffusion based micromixing has been to increase the interfacial area and to decrease the diffusion length by interleaving two liquids. Interleaving is done by manipulating the structure s geometry. One approach is to inject one liquid into another through a micro nozzle array. See Miyake et al. Micro mixer with fast diffusion Proceedings of Micro Electro Mechanical Systems p. 248 253 1993 . An alternative method is to stack two flow streams in one channel as thin layers by multiple stage splitting and recombining. See Branebierg et al. Fast mixing by lamination Proc. IEEE Micro Electro Mechanical Systems p. 441 1996 Kmro et al. Experiments and simulations on a micro mixer fabricated using a planar silicon glass technology MEMS p. 177 182 1998 Schwesinger et al. A modular microfluidic system with an integrated micromixer J. Micromech. Microeng. Vol 6 pg. 99 102 1996 and Schwesinger et al. A static micromixer built up in silicon Proceedings of the SPIE The International Society for Optical Engineering Micromachined Devices and Components Vol. 2642 p. 150 155. The characterizations of this type of mixer are provided by Koch et al. Two simple micromixers based on silicon J. Micromech. Microeng. Vol 8 p. 123 126 1998 Koch et al. Micromachined chemical reaction system Sensors and Actuators Physical 74 p. 207 210 and Koch et al. Improved characterization technique for micromixer J. Micromech. Microeng Vol 9 p. 156 158 1999 . A variation of the lamination technique is achieved similarly by fractionation re arrangement and subsequent reunification of liquids in sinusoidally shaped fluid channels see Kamper et al. Microfluidic components for biological and chemical microreactors . MEMS 1997 p. 338 in alternative channels of two counter current liquids see http www.imm mainz.de Lnews Lnews4 mire.html or in a 3D pipe with a series of stationary rigid elements forming intersecting channels inside see Bertsch et al. 3D micromixers downscaling large scale industrial static mixers MEMS 2001 14International Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems p. 507 510 . One disadvantage of purely diffusion based static mixing is the requirement of a complex 3D structure in order to provide out of plane fluid flow. Another disadvantage is the low Reynolds number characterizing the flow which results in a long mixing time.

A problem for active mixers is that energy absorption during the mixing process makes them inapplicable to temperature sensitive fluids. Moreover some active mixers rely on the charged or polarizable fluid particles to generate convection and local turbulence. Thus liquids with low conductivity could not be properly mixed. When the perturbation force comes from a mechanical micropump however the presence of the valveless micropump makes the control of flow ratios of solutions for mixing quite complex.

In continuous flow systems the control of the mixing ratio is always a technical problem. By varying the sample and reagent flow rates the mixing ratio can be obtained with proper control of the pressure at the reagent and sample ports. However the dependence of pressure on the properties of the fluid and the geometry of the mixing chamber channels makes the control very complicated. When inlets are controlled by a micropump the nonlinear relationship between the operating frequency and flow rate make it a nontrivial task to change the flow rate freely. The discontinuous mixing of two liquids by integration of a mixer and an electrically actuated flapper valve has been demonstrated by Voldman et al. An Integrated Liquid Mixer Valve Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems Vol. 9 No. 3 September 2000 . The design required a sophisticated pressure flow calibration to get a range of mixing ratios.

Droplet based mixers have been explored by Hosokawa et al. Droplet based nano picoliter mixer using hydrophobic microcapillary vent MEMS 99 p. 388 Hosokawa et al. Handling of Picoliter Liquid Samples in a Poly dimethylsiloxane Based Microfluidic Device Anal. Chem 1999. Vol. 71 p. 4781 4785 Washizu et al. Electrostatic actuation of liquid droplets for micro reactor applications IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications Vol. 34 No. 4 p. 732 737 1998 Buns et al. An Integrated Nanoliter DNA Analysis Device Science Vol. 282 No. 5388 p. 484 Oct. 16 1998 Pollack et al. Electrowetting based actuation of liquid droplets for microfluidic applications Appl. Phys. Lett. Vol. 77 p. 1725 September 2000 Pamula et al. Microfluidic electrowetting based droplet mixing 2001 8 10. Fowler et al. Enhancement of Mixing by Droplet based Microfluidics 2002 97 100. Pollack Electrowetting based microactuation of droplets for digital microfluidics Ph.D. Thesis Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Duke University and Wu Design and Fabrication of an Input Buffer for a Unit Flow Microfluidic System Master thesis Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Duke University.

It is believed that droplet based mixers can be designed and constructed to provide a number of advantages over continuous flow based microfluidic devices. Discrete flow can eliminate the limitation on flow rate imposed by continuous microfluidic devices. The design of droplet based mixing devices can be based on a planar structure that can be fabricated at low cost. Actuation mechanisms based on pneumatic drive electrostatic force or electrowetting do not require heaters and thus have a minimum effect on bio chemistry. By providing a proper droplet generation technique droplet based mixers can provide better control of liquid volume. Finally droplet based mixers can enable droplet operations such as shuttling or shaking to generate internal recirculation within the droplet thereby increasing mixing efficiency in the diffusion dominated scale.

In view of the foregoing it would be advantageous to provide novel droplet manipulative techniques to address the problems associated with previous analytical and mixing techniques that required continuous flows. In particular the present invention as described and claimed hereinbelow developed in part from the realization that an alternative and better solution to the continuous flow architecture would be to design a system where the channels and mixing chambers are not permanently etched but rather are virtual and can be configured and reconfigured on the fly. The present invention enables such a system by providing means for discretizing fluids into droplets and means for independently controlling individual droplets allowing each droplet to act as a virtual mixing or reaction chamber.

The present invention provides droplet based liquid handling and manipulation methods by implementing electrowetting based techniques. The droplets can be sub microliter sized and can be moved freely by controlling voltages to electrodes. Generally the actuation mechanism of the droplet is based upon surface tension gradients induced in the droplet by the voltage induced electrowetting effect. The mechanisms of the invention allow the droplets to be transported while also acting as virtual chambers for mixing to be performed anywhere on a chip. The chip can include an array of electrodes that are reconfigurable in real time to perform desired tasks. The invention enables several different types of handling and manipulation tasks to be performed on independently controllable droplet samples reagents diluents and the like. Such tasks conventionally have been performed on continuous liquid flows. These tasks include for example actuation or movement monitoring detection irradiation incubation reaction dilution mixing dialysis analysis and the like. Moreover the methods of the invention can be used to form droplets from a continuous flow liquid source such as a from a continuous input provided at a microfluidic chip. Accordingly the invention provides a method for continuous sampling by discretizing or fragmenting a continuous flow into a desired number of uniformly sized independently controllable droplet units.

The partitioning of liquids into discrete independently controlled packets or droplets for microscopic manipulation provides several important advantages over continuous flow systems. For instance the reduction of fluid manipulation or fluidics to a set of basic repeatable operations for example moving one unit of liquid one unit step allows a hierarchical and cell based design approach that is analogous to digital electronics.

In addition to the advantages identified hereinabove the present invention utilizes electrowetting as the mechanism for droplet actuation or manipulation for the following additional advantages 

In particular the present invention provides a sampling method that enables droplet based sample preparation and analysis. The present invention fragments or discretizes the continuous liquid flow into a series of droplets of uniform size on or in a microfluidic chip or other suitable structure by inducing and controlling electrowetting phenomena. The liquid is subsequently conveyed through or across the structure as a train of droplets which are eventually recombined for continuous flow at an output deposited in a collection reservoir or diverted from the flow channel for analysis. Alternatively the continuous flow stream may completely traverse the structure with droplets removed or sampled from specific locations along the continuous flow for analysis. In both cases the sampled droplets can then be transported to particular areas of the structure for analysis. Thus the analysis is carried out on line but not in line with respect to the main flow allowing the analysis to be de coupled from the main flow.

Once removed from the main flow a facility exists for independently controlling the motion of each droplet. For purposes of chemical analysis the sample droplets can be combined and mixed with droplets containing specific chemical reagents formed from reagent reservoirs on or adjacent to the chip or other structure. Multiple step reactions or dilutions might be necessary in some cases with portions of the chip assigned to certain functions such as mixing reacting or incubation of droplets. Once the sample is prepared it can be transported by electrowetting to another portion of the chip dedicated to detection or measurement of the analyte. Some detection sites can for example contain bound enzymes or other biomolecular recognition agents and be specific for particular analytes while others can consist of a general means of detection such as an optical system for fluorescence or absorbance based assays. The flow of droplets from the continuous flow source to the analysis portion of the chip the analysis flow is controlled independently of the continuous flow the input flow allowing a great deal of flexibility in carrying out the analyses. Other features and advantages of the methods of the present invention are described in more detail hereinbelow.

Methods of the present invention use means for forming microdroplets from the continuous flow and for independently transporting merging mixing and other processing of the droplets. The preferred embodiment uses electrical control of surface tension i.e. electrowetting to accomplish these manipulations. In one embodiment the liquid is contained within a space between two parallel plates. One plate contains etched drive electrodes on its surface while the other plate contains either etched electrodes or a single continuous plane electrode that is grounded or set to a reference potential. Hydrophobic insulation covers the electrodes and an electric field is generated between electrodes on opposing plates. This electric field creates a surface tension gradient that causes a droplet overlapping the energized electrode to move towards that electrode. Through proper arrangement and control of the electrodes a droplet can be transported by successively transferring it between adjacent electrodes. The patterned electrodes can be arranged in a two dimensional array so as to allow transport of a droplet to any location covered by that array. The space surrounding the droplets may be filled with a gas such as air or an immiscible fluid such as oil.

In another embodiment the structure used for ground or reference potential is co planar with the drive electrodes and the second plate if used merely defines the containment space. The co planar grounding elements can be a conductive grid superimposed on the electrode array. Alternatively the grounding elements can be electrodes of the array dynamically selected to serve as ground or reference electrodes while other electrodes of the array are selected to serve as drive electrodes.

Droplets can be combined together by transporting them simultaneously onto the same electrode. Droplets are subsequently mixed either passively or actively. Droplets are mixed passively by diffusion. Droplets are mixed actively by moving or shaking the combined droplet by taking advantage of the electrowetting phenomenon. In a preferred embodiment droplets are mixed by rotating them around a two by two array of electrodes. The actuation of the droplet creates turbulent non reversible flow or creates dispersed multilaminates to enhance mixing via diffusion. Droplets can be split off from a larger droplet or continuous body of liquid in the following manner at least two electrodes adjacent to the edge of the liquid body are energized along with an electrode directly beneath the liquid and the liquid moves so as to spread across the extent of the energized electrodes. The intermediate electrode is then de energized to create a hydrophobic region between two effectively hydrophilic regions. The liquid meniscus breaks above the hydrophobic regions thus forming a new droplet. This process can be used to form the droplets from a continuously flowing stream.

According to one embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for manipulating droplets comprises a substrate comprising a substrate surface an array of electrodes disposed on the substrate surface an array of reference elements a dielectric layer disposed on the substrate surface and an electrode selector. The reference elements are settable to a reference potential. The array of reference elements is disposed of in substantially co planar relation to the electrode array such that each reference element is adjacent to at least one of the electrodes. The dielectric layer is disposed on the substrate surface and is patterned to cover the electrodes. The electrode selector can be provided as a microprocessor or other suitable component for sequentially activating and de activating one or more selected electrodes of the array to sequentially bias the selected electrodes to an actuation voltage. The sequencing performed by the electrode selector enables a droplet disposed on the substrate surface to move along a desired path that is defined by the selected electrodes.

According to one method of the present invention a droplet is actuated by providing the droplet on a surface that comprises an array of electrodes and a substantially co planar array of reference elements. The droplet is disposed on a first one of the electrodes and at least partially overlaps a second one of the electrodes and an intervening one of the reference elements disposed between the first and second electrodes. The first and second electrodes are activated to spread at least a portion of the droplet across the second electrode. The first electrode is de activated to move the droplet from the first electrode to the second electrode.

According to one aspect of this method the second electrode is adjacent to the first electrode along a first direction. In addition the electrode array comprises one more additional electrodes adjacent to the first electrode along one or more additional directions. The droplet at least partially overlaps these additional electrodes as well as the second electrode. In accordance with this aspect of the method the first direction that includes the first electrode and the second electrode is selected as a desired direction along which the droplet is to move. The second electrode is selected for activation based on the selection of the first direction.

In accordance with another method of the present invention a droplet is split into two or more droplets. A starting droplet is provided on a surface comprising an array of electrodes and a substantially co planar array of reference elements. The electrode array comprises at least three electrodes comprising a first outer electrode a medial electrode adjacent to the first outer electrode and a second outer electrode adjacent to the medial electrode. The starting droplet is initially disposed on at least one of these three electrodes and at least partially overlaps at least one other of the three electrodes. Each of the three electrodes is activated to spread the starting droplet across the three electrodes. The medial electrode is de activated to split the starting droplet into first and second split droplets. The first split droplet is disposed on the first outer electrode and the second split droplet is disposed on the second outer electrode.

In yet another method of the present invention two or more droplets are merged into one droplet. First and second droplets are provided on a surface comprising an array of electrodes in a substantially co planar array of reference elements. The electrode array comprises at least three electrodes comprising a first outer electrode a medial electrode adjacent to the first outer electrode and a second outer electrode adjacent to the medial electrode. The first droplet is disposed on the first outer electrode and at least partially overlaps the medial electrode. The second droplet is disposed on the second outer electrode and at least partially overlaps the medial electrode. One of the three electrodes is selected as a destination electrode. Two or more of the three electrodes are selected for sequential activation and de activation based on the selection of the destination electrode. The electrodes selected for sequencing are sequentially activated and de activated to move one of the first and second droplets toward the other droplet or both of the first and second droplets toward each other. The first and second droplets merge together to form a combined droplet on the destination electrode.

According to one aspect of this method the first droplet comprises a first composition the second droplet comprises a second composition and the combined droplet comprises both the first and second compositions. The method further comprises the step of mixing the first and second compositions together. In accordance with the present invention the mixing step can be passive or active. In one aspect of the invention the mixing step comprises moving the combined droplet on a two by two sub array of four electrodes by sequentially activating and de activating the four electrodes to rotate the combined droplet. At least a portion of the combined droplet remains substantially stationary at or near an intersecting region of the four electrodes while the combined droplet rotates. In another aspect of the invention the mixing step comprises sequentially activating and de activating a linearly arranged set of electrodes of the electrode array to oscillate the combined droplet back and forth along the linearly arranged electrode set a desired number of times and at a desired frequency. Additional mixing strategies provided in accordance with the invention are described in detail hereinbelow.

According to another embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for manipulating droplets comprises a substrate comprising a substrate surface an array of electrodes disposed on the substrate surface a dielectric layer disposed on the substrate surface and covering the electrodes and an electrode selector. The electrode selector dynamically creates a sequence of electrode pairs. Each electrode pair comprises a selected first one of the electrodes biased to a first voltage and a selected second one of the electrodes disposed adjacent to the selected first electrode and biased to a second voltage that is less than the first voltage. Preferably the second voltage is a ground voltage or some other reference voltage. A droplet disposed on the substrate surface moves along a desired path that runs between the electrode pairs created by the electrode selector.

According to yet another method of the present invention a droplet is actuated by providing the droplet on a surface comprising an array of electrodes. The droplet is initially disposed on a first one of the electrodes and at least partially overlaps a second one of the electrodes that is separated from the first electrode by a first gap. The first electrode is biased to a first voltage and the second electrode is biased to a second voltage lower than the first voltage. In this manner the droplet becomes centered on the first gap. A third one of the electrodes that is proximate to the first and second electrodes is biased to a third voltage that is higher than the second voltage to spread the droplet onto the third electrode. The bias on the first electrode is then removed to move the droplet away from the first electrode. The droplet then becomes centered on a second gap between the second and third electrodes.

According to still another method of the present invention a droplet is split into two or more droplets. A starting droplet is provided on a surface comprising an array of electrodes. The electrode array comprises at least three electrodes comprising a first outer electrode a medial electrode adjacent to the first outer electrode and a second outer electrode adjacent to the medial electrode. The starting droplet is initially disposed on at least one of the three electrodes and at least partially overlaps at least one other of the three electrodes. Each of the three electrodes is biased to a first voltage to spread the initial droplet across the three electrodes. The medial electrode is biased to a second voltage lower than the first voltage to split the initial droplet into first and second split droplets. The first split droplet is formed on the first outer electrode and the second split droplet is formed on the second outer electrode.

According to a further method of the present invention two or more droplets are merged into one droplet. First and second droplets are provided on a surface comprising an array of electrodes. The electrode array comprises at least three electrodes comprising a first outer electrode a medial electrode adjacent to the first outer electrode and a second outer electrode adjacent to the medial electrode. The first droplet is disposed on the first outer electrode and at least partially overlaps the medial electrode. The second droplet is disposed on the second outer electrode and at least partially overlaps the medial electrode. One of the three electrodes is selected as a destination electrode. Two or more of the three electrodes are selected for sequential biasing based on the selection of the destination electrode. The electrodes selected for sequencing are sequentially biased between a first voltage and a second voltage to move one of the first and second droplets toward the other droplet or both of the first and second droplets toward each other. The first and second droplets merge together to form a combined droplet on the destination electrode.

The present invention also provides a method for sampling a continuous liquid flow. A liquid flow is supplied to a surface along a first flow path. The surface comprises an array of electrodes and a substantially co planar array of reference elements. At least a portion of the liquid flow is disposed on a first one of the electrodes and at least partially overlaps a second one of the electrodes and a reference element between the first and second electrodes. The first electrode the second electrode and a third one of the electrodes adjacent to second electrode are activated to spread the liquid flow portion across the second and third electrodes. The second electrode is de activated to form a droplet from the liquid flow on the third electrode. The droplet is distinct from and in controllable independently of the liquid flow.

In accordance with another method of the present invention for sampling a continuous liquid flow a liquid flow is supplied to a surface along a first flow path. The surface comprises an array of electrodes. At least a portion of the liquid flow is disposed on a first one of the electrodes and at least partially overlaps a second one of the electrodes. The first electrode the second electrode and a third one of the electrodes adjacent to the second electrode are biased to a first voltage to spread the liquid flow portion across the second and third electrodes. The second electrode is biased to a second voltage that is less than the first voltage to form a droplet from the liquid flow on the third electrode. The droplet so formed is distinct from and controllable independently of the liquid flow.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention a binary mixing apparatus comprises a first mixing unit a second mixing unit and an electrode selector. The first mixing unit comprises a first surface area an array of first electrodes disposed on the first surface area and an array of first reference elements disposed in substantially co planar relation to the first electrodes. The second mixing unit comprises a second surface area an array of second electrodes disposed on the second surface area an array of second reference elements disposed in substantially co planar relation to the second electrodes and a droplet outlet area communicating with the second surface area and with the first mixing unit. The electrode selector sequentially activates and de activates one or more selected first electrodes to mix together two droplets supplied to the first surface area. The electrode selector also sequentially activates and de activates one or more selected second electrodes to mix together two other droplets supplied to the second surface area.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to sample a continuous flow liquid input source from which uniformly sized independently controllable droplets are formed on a continuous and automated basis.

It is another object of the present invention to utilize electrowetting technology to implement and control droplet based manipulations such as transportation mixing detection analysis and the like.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide an architecture suitable for efficiently performing binary mixing of droplets to obtain desired mixing ratios with a high degree of accuracy.

Some of the objects of the invention having been stated hereinabove other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.

For purposes of the present disclosure the terms layer and film are used interchangeably to denote a structure or body that is typically but not necessarily planar or substantially planar and is typically deposited on formed on coats treats or is otherwise disposed on another structure.

For purposes of the present disclosure the term communicate e.g. a first component communicates with or is in communication with a second component is used herein to indicate a structural functional mechanical electrical optical or fluidic relationship or any combination thereof between two or more components or elements. As such the fact that one component is said to communicate with a second component is not intended to exclude the possibility that additional components may be present between and or operatively associated or engaged with the first and second components.

For purposes of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a given component such as a layer region or substrate is referred to herein as being disposed or formed on in or at another component that given component can be directly on the other component or alternatively intervening components for example one or more buffer layers interlayers electrodes or contacts can also be present. It will be further understood that the terms disposed on and formed on are used interchangeably to describe how a given component is positioned or situated in relation to another component. Hence the terms disposed on and formed on are not intended to introduce any limitations relating to particular methods of material transport deposition or fabrication.

For purposes of the present disclosure it will be understood that when a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

As used herein the term reagent describes any material useful for reacting with diluting solvating suspending emulsifying encapsulating interacting with or adding to a sample material.

The droplet based methods and apparatus provided by the present invention will now be described in detail with reference being made as necessary to the accompanying .

Referring now to an electrowetting microactuator mechanism generally designated is illustrated as a preferred embodiment for effecting electrowetting based manipulations on a droplet D without the need for pumps valves or fixed channels. Droplet D is electrolytic polarizable or otherwise capable of conducting current or being electrically charged. Droplet D is sandwiched between a lower plane generally designated and an upper plane generally designated . The terms upper and lower are used in the present context only to distinguish these two planes and and not as a limitation on the orientation of planes and with respect to the horizontal. Lower plane comprises an array of independently addressable control electrodes. By way of example a linear series of three control or drive electrodes E specifically E E and E are illustrated in . It will be understood however that control electrodes E E and Ecould be arranged along a non linear path such as a circle. Moreover in the construction of devices benefiting from the present invention such as a microfluidic chip control electrodes E E and Ewill typically be part of a larger number of control electrodes that collectively form a two dimensional electrode array or grid. includes dashed lines between adjacent control electrodes E E and Eto conceptualize unit cells generally designated C specifically C Cand C . Preferably each unit cell C C and Ccontains a single control electrode. E E and E respectively. Typically the size of each unit cell C or control electrode E is between approximately 0.05 mm to approximately 2 mm.

Control electrodes E E and Eare embedded in or formed on a suitable lower substrate or plate . A thin lower layer of hydrophobic insulation is applied to lower plate to cover and thereby electrically isolate control electrodes E E and E. Lower hydrophobic layer can be a single continuous layer or alternatively can be patterned to cover only the areas on lower plate where control electrodes E Eand Ereside. Upper plane comprises a single continuous ground electrode G embedded in or formed on a suitable upper substrate or plate . Alternatively a plurality of ground electrodes G could be provided in parallel with the arrangement of corresponding control electrodes E Eand E in which case one ground electrode G could be associated with one corresponding control electrode E. Preferably a thin upper layer of hydrophobic insulation is also applied to upper plate to isolate ground electrode G. One non limiting example of a hydrophobic material suitable for lower layer and upper layer is TEFLON AF 1600 material available from E. I. duPont deNemours and Company Wilmington Del. . The geometry of microactuator mechanism and the volume of droplet D are controlled such that the footprint of droplet D overlaps at least two control electrodes e.g. Eand E adjacent to the central control electrode e.g. E while also making contact with upper layer . Preferably this is accomplished by specifying a gap or spacing d which is defined between lower plane and upper plane as being less than the diameter that droplet D would have in an unconstrained state. Typically the cross sectional dimension of spacing d is between approximately 0.01 mm to approximately 1 mm. Preferably a medium fills gap d and thus surrounds droplet D. The medium can be either an inert gas such as air or an immiscible fluid such as silicone oil to prevent evaporation of droplet D.

Ground electrode G and control electrodes E Eand Eare placed in electrical communication with at least one suitable voltage source V which preferably is a DC voltage source but alternatively could be an AC voltage source through conventional conductive lead lines L Land L. Each control electrode E Eand Eis energizable independently of the other control electrodes E Eand E. This can be accomplished by providing suitable switches S Sand Scommunicating with respective control electrodes E Eand E or other suitable means for independently rendering each control electrode E Eand Eeither active ON state high voltage or binary 1 or inactive OFF state low voltage or binary 0 . In other embodiments or in other areas of the electrode array two or more control electrodes E can be commonly connected so as to be activated together.

The structure of electrowetting microactuator mechanism can represent a portion of a microfluidic chip on which conventional microfluidic and or microelectronic components can also be integrated. As examples the chip could also include resistive heating areas microchannels micropumps pressure sensors optical waveguides and or biosensing or chemosensing elements interfaced with MOS metal oxide semiconductor circuitry.

Referring now to an electrode array or portion thereof is illustrated in which each structural interface between adjacent unit cells e.g. Cand C associated with control electrodes not shown is preferably characterized by an interdigitated region generally designated defined by interlocking projections and extending outwardly from the main planar structures of respective unit cells Cand C. Such interdigitated regions can be useful in rendering the transition from one unit cell e.g. C to an adjacent unit cell e.g. C more continuous as opposed to providing straight edged boundaries at the cell cell interfaces. It will be noted however that the electrodes or unit cells according to any embodiment of the invention can have any polygonal shape that is suitable for constructing a closely packed two dimensional array such as a square or octagon.

Referring back to the basic electrowetting technique enabled by the design of microactuator mechanism will now be described. Initially all control electrodes i.e. control electrode Eon which droplet D is centrally located and adjacent control electrodes Eand E are grounded or floated and the contact angle everywhere on droplet D is equal to the equilibrium contact angle associated with that droplet D. When an electrical potential is applied to control electrode Esituated underneath droplet D a layer of charge builds up at the interface between droplet D and energized control electrode E resulting in a local reduction of the interfacial energy . Since the solid insulator provided by lower hypdrophobic insulating layer controls the capacitance between droplet D and control electrode E the effect does not depend on the specific space charge effects of the electrolytic liquid phase of droplet D as is the case in previously developed uninsulated electrode implementations.

The following EXAMPLE describes a prototypical embodiment of electrowetting microactuator mechanism with reference being generally made to .

A prototype device consisting of a single linear array of seven interdigitated control electrodes E at a pitch of 1.5 mm was fabricated and tested. Control electrodes E were formed by patterning a 2000 thick layer of chrome on a glass lower plate using standard microfabrication techniques. The chips were then coated with a 7000 layer of Parylene C followed by a layer of approximately 2000 of TEFLON AF 1600. Ground electrode G consisted of an upper plate of glass coated with a conducting layer R

Water droplets 0.7 1.0 l of 100 mM KCI were dispensed onto the array using a pipette and upper plate was positioned to provide a gap d of 0.3 mm between the opposing electrodes E and G. A customized clamp with spring loaded contact pins not shown was used to make connections to the bond pads. A computer was used to control a custom built electronic interface which was capable of independently switching each output between ground and the voltage output of a 120 V DC power supply.

A droplet D was initially placed on the center of the grounded control electrode e.g. E and the potential on the adjacent electrode e.g. control electrode Eor E was increased until motion was observed. Typically a voltage of 30 40 V was required to initiate movement of droplet D. Once this threshold was exceeded droplet movement was both rapid and repeatable. It is believed that contact angle hysteresis is the mechanism responsible for this threshold effect. By sequentially energizing four adjacent control electrodes E at 80 V of applied potential droplet D was moved repeatedly back and forth across all four control electrodes E at a switching frequency of 15 Hz.

The transit time tof the droplet D was defined as the time required for droplet D to reach the far edge of the adjacent electrode following the application of the voltage potential. The transit time tthus represented the minimum amount of time allowed between successive transfers and 1 t was the maximum switching rate for continuous transfer of a droplet D. The maximum switching rate as a function of voltage is plotted in where twas determined by counting recorded video frames of a moving droplet D.

Sustained droplet transport over 1000 s of cycles at switching rates of up to 1000 Hz has been demonstrated for droplets of 6 nL volume. This rate corresponds to an average droplet velocity of 10.0 cm s which is nearly 300 times faster than a previously reported method for electrical manipulation of droplets. See M. Washizu IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 34 732 1998 . Comparable velocities cannot be obtained in thermocapillary systems because for water the required temperature difference between the ends of droplet D exceeds 100 C. See Sammarco et al. AIChE J. 45 350 1999 . These results demonstrate the feasibility of electrowetting as an actuation mechanism for droplet based microfluidic systems. This design can be extended to arbitrarily large two dimensional arrays to allow precise and independent control over large numbers of droplets D and to serve as a general platform for microfluidic processing.

Referring now to examples of some basic droplet manipulative operations are illustrated. As in the case of a linear arrangement of three unit cells C Cand Cand associated control electrodes E Eand Eare illustrated again with the understanding that these unit cells C Cand Cand control electrodes E Eand Ecan form a section of a larger linear series non linear series or two dimensional array of unit cells control electrodes. For convenience in corresponding control electrodes and unit cells are collectively referred to as control electrodes E Eand E. Moreover unit cells C C and Ccan be physical entities such as areas on a chip surface or conceptual elements. In each of an active i.e. energized control electrode E E or Eis indicated by designating its associated electrical lead line L L or L ON while an inactive i.e. de energized floated or grounded control electrode E E or Eis indicated by designating its associated electrical lead line L L or L OFF .

Turning to a basic MOVE operation is illustrated. illustrates a starting position at which droplet D is centered on control electrode E. Initially all control electrodes E Eand Eare grounded so that droplet D is stationary and in equilibrium on control electrode E. Alternatively control electrode Ecould be energized while all adjacent control electrodes e.g. E are grounded so as to initially maintain droplet D in a HOLD or STORE state and thereby isolate droplet D from adjoining regions of an array where other manipulative operations might be occurring on other droplets. To move droplet D in the direction indicated by the arrow in control electrode Eis energized to attract droplet D and thereby cause droplet D to move and become centered on control electrode E as shown in . Subsequent activation of control electrode E followed by removal of the voltage potential at control electrode E causes droplet D to move onto control electrode Eas shown in . This sequencing of electrodes can be repeated to cause droplet D to continue to move in the desired direction indicated by the arrow. It will also be evident that the precise path through which droplet D moves across the electrode array is easily controlled by appropriately programming an electronic control unit such as a conventional microprocessor to activate and de activate selected electrodes of the array according to a predetermined sequence. Thus for example droplet D can be actuated to make right and left hand turns within the array. For instance after droplet D has been moved to control electrode Efrom Eas shown in droplet D can then be moved onto control electrode Eof another row of electrodes E Eas shown in . Moreover droplet D can be cycled back and forth e.g. shaken along a desired number of unit cells and at a desired frequency for various purposes such as agitation of droplet D as described in the EXAMPLE hereinabove.

In the present discussion the terms MERGE and MIX have been used interchangeably to denote the combination of two or more droplets. This is because the merging of droplets does not in all cases directly or immediately result in the complete mixing of the components of the initially separate droplets. Whether merging results in mixing can depend on many factors. These factors can include the respective compositions or chemistries of the droplets to be mixed physical properties of the droplets or their surroundings such as temperature and pressure derived properties of the droplets such as viscosity and surface tension and the amount of time during which the droplets are held in a combined state prior to being moved or split back apart. As a general matter the mechanism by which droplets are mixed together can be categorized as either passive or active mixing. In passive mixing the merged droplet remain on the final electrode throughout the mixing process. Passive mixing can be sufficient under conditions where an acceptable degree of diffusion within the combined droplet occurs. In active mixing on the other hand the merged droplet is then moved around in some manner adding energy to the process to effect complete or more complete mixing. Active mixing strategies enabled by the present invention are described hereinbelow.

It will be further noted that in the case where a distinct mixing operation is to occur after a merging operation these two operations can occur at different sections or areas on the electrode array of the chip. For instance two droplets can be merged at one section and one or more of the basic MOVE operations can be implemented to convey the merged droplet to another section. An active mixing strategy can then be executed at this other section or while the merged droplet is in transit to the other section as described hereinbelow.

Referring now to a DISCRETIZE operation can be derived from the basic SPLIT operation. As shown in a surface or port I O is provided either on an electrode grid or at an edge thereof adjacent to electrode containing unit cells e.g. control electrode E and serves as an input and or output for liquid. A liquid dispensing device is provided and can be of any conventional design e.g. a capillary tube pipette fluid pen syringe or the like adapted to dispense and or aspirate a quantity of liquid LQ. Dispensing device can be adapted to dispense metered doses e.g. aliquots of liquid LQ or to provide a continuous flow of liquid LQ either at port I O or directly at control electrode E. As an alternative to using dispensing device a continuous flow of liquid LQ could be conducted across the surface of a microfluidic chip with control electrodes E E and Ebeing arranged either in the direction of the continuous flow or in a non collinear e.g. perpendicular direction with respect to the continuous flow. In the specific exemplary embodiment shown in dispensing device supplies liquid LQ to control electrode E.

To create a droplet on the electrode array the control electrode directly beneath the main body of liquid LQ control electrode E and at least two control electrodes adjacent to the edge of the liquid body e.g. control electrodes Eand E are energized. This causes the dispensed body of liquid LQ to spread across control electrodes Eand Eas shown in . In a manner analogous to the SPLIT operation described hereinabove with reference to the intermediate control electrode control electrode E is then de energized to create a hydrophobic region between two effectively hydrophilic regions. The liquid meniscus breaks above the hydrophobic region to form or pinch off a new droplet D which is centered on control electrode Eas shown in . From this point further energize de energize sequencing of other electrodes of the array can be effected to move droplet D in any desired row wise and or column wise direction to other areas on the electrode array. Moreover for a continuous input flow of liquid LQ this dispensing process can be repeated to create a train of droplets on the grid or array thereby discretizing the continuous flow. As described in more detail hereinbelow the discretization process is highly useful for implementing droplet based processes on the array especially when a plurality of concurrent operations on many droplets are contemplated.

Examples of several strategies for mixing droplets in accordance with the present invention will now be described. Referring to a configuration such as that of electrowetting microactuator mechanism described hereinabove with reference to can be employed to carry out merging and mixing operations on two or more droplets e.g. droplets Dand D. In droplets Dand Dare initially centrally positioned on control electrodes Eand E respectively. Droplets Dand Dcan be actuated by electrowetting to move toward each other and merge together on a final electrode in the manner described previously with reference to . The final electrode can be an intermediately disposed electrode such as electrode Eor E. Alternatively one droplet can move across one or more control electrodes and merge into another stationary droplet. Thus as illustrated in droplet Dcan be actuated to move across intermediate electrodes Eand Eas indicated by the arrow and merge with droplet Dresiding on electrode such that the merging of droplets Dand Doccurs on electrode E. The combined droplet can then be actively mixed according to either a one dimensional linear two dimensional linear or two dimensional loop mixing strategy.

As one example of a one dimensional linear mixing strategy multiple droplets can be merged as just described and the resulting combined droplet then oscillated or shaken or switched back and forth at a desired frequency over a few electrodes to cause perturbations in the contents of the combined droplet. This mixing process is described in the EXAMPLE set forth hereinabove and can involve any number of linearly arranged electrodes such as electrodes in a row or column of an array. B and C illustrate two three and four electrode series respectively in which merging and mixing by shaking can be performed. As another example of one dimensional linear mixing multiple droplets are merged and the combined droplet or droplets are then split apart as described hereinabove. The resulting split merged droplets are then oscillated back and forth at a desired frequency over a few electrodes. The split merged droplets can then be recombined re split and re oscillated for a number of successive cycles until the desired degree of mixing has been attained. Both of these one dimensional linear mixing approaches produce reversible flow within the combined droplet or droplets. It is thus possible that the mixing currents established by motion in one direction could be undone or reversed when the combined droplet oscillates back the other way. Therefore in some situations the reversible flow attending one dimensional mixing processes may require undesirably large mixing times.

Referring now to another example of one dimensional linear mixing referred to as mixing in transport is illustrated. This method entails combining two or more droplets and then continuously actuating the combined droplet in a forward direction along a desired flow path until mixing is complete. Referring to a combined droplet D is transported from a starting electrode Ealong a programmed path of electrodes on the array until it reaches a preselected destination electrode E. Destination electrode Ecan be a location on the array at which a subsequent process such as analysis reaction incubation or detection is programmed to occur. In such a case the flow path over which combined droplet D is actively mixed indicated by the arrow also serves as the analysis flow path over which the sample is transported from the input to the processing area on the array. The number of electrodes comprising the selected path from starting electrode Eto destination electrode Ecorresponds to the number of actuations to which combined droplet D is subject. Hence through the use of a sufficient number of intermediate path electrodes combined droplet D will be fully mixed by the time it reaches destination electrode E. It will be noted that the flow path does not reverse as in the case of the afore described oscillatory mixing techniques. The flow path can however include one or more right angle turns through the x y plane of the array as indicated by the respective arrows in . In some cases turning the path produces unique flow patterns that enhance the mixing effect. In the flow path has a ladder or step structure consisting of a number of right angle turns. In destination electrode Elies in the same row as starting electrode E but combined droplet D is actuated through a flow path that deviates from and subsequently returns to that row in order to increase the number of electrodes over which combined droplet D travels and the number of turns executed.

Referring now to an example of a two dimensional linear mixing strategy is illustrated. One electrode row Eand one electrode column Eof the array are utilized. Droplets Dand Dare moved toward each other along electrode row Eand merged as described hereinabove forming a merged droplet Dcentered on the electrode disposed at the intersection of electrode row Eand electrode column E. Selected electrodes of electrode column Eare then sequentially energized and de energized in the manner described hereinabove to split merged droplet Dinto split droplets Dand D. Split droplets Dand Dare then moved along electrode column E. This continued movement of split droplets Dand Denhances the mixing effect on the contents of split droplets Dand D.

Referring now to examples of two dimensional loop mixing strategies are illustrated. In a combined droplet D is circulated clockwise or counterclockwise in a circular square or other closed loop path along the electrodes of selected rows and columns of the array as indicated by the arrow. This cyclical actuation of combined droplet D is effected through appropriate sequencing of the electrodes comprising the selected path. Combined droplet D is cycled in this manner for a number of times sufficient to mix its contents. The cycling of combined droplet D produces nonreversible flow patterns that enhance the mixing effect and reduce the time required for complete mixing. In the path circumscribes only one central electrode not used for actuation although the path could be made larger so as to circumscribe more central electrodes.

In a sub array of at least four adjacent electrodes E Eis utilized. Combined droplet D is large enough to overlap all four electrodes E Eof the sub array simultaneously. The larger size of combined droplet D could be the result of merging two smaller sized droplets without splitting or could be the result of first merging two pairs of droplets and thereafter combining the two merged droplets. Combined droplet D is rotated around the sub array by sequencing electrodes E Ein the order appropriate for effecting either clockwise or counterclockwise rotation. As compared with the mixing strategy illustrated in however a portion of the larger sized combined droplet D remains pinned at or near the intersection of the four electrodes E Eof the sub array. Thus combined droplet D in effect rotates or spins about the intersecting region where the pinned portion is located. This effect gives rise to unique internal flow patterns that enhance the mixing effect attributed to rotating or spinning combined droplet D and that promote nonreversible flow. Moreover the ability to mix combined droplet D using only four electrodes E Eenables the cyclical actuation to occur at high frequencies and with less power requirements.

The mixing strategy illustrated in can also be implemented using other sizes of arrays. For instance a 2 4 array has been found to work well in accordance with the invention.

For all of the above described mixing strategies it will be noted the droplets involved can be of equal size or unequal volumes. In a situation where an n 1 volume ratio of mixing is required the electrode areas can be proportionately chosen to yield a one droplet n to one droplet mixing.

Referring now to a method for sampling and subsequently processing droplets from a continuous flow fluid input source is schematically illustrated in accordance with the invention. More particularly the method enables the discretization of uniformly sized sample droplets S from continuous flow source by means of electrowetting based techniques as described hereinabove in preparation for subsequent droplet based on chip and or off chip procedures e.g. mixing reacting incubation analysis detection monitoring and the like . In this context the term continuous is taken to denote a volume of liquid that has not been discretized into smaller volume droplets. Non limiting examples of continuous flow inputs include capillary scale streams fingers slugs aliquots and metered doses of fluids introduced to a substrate surface or other plane from an appropriate source or dispensing device.

Sample droplets S will typically contain an analyte substance of interest e.g. a pharmaceutical molecule to be identified such as by mass spectrometry or a known molecule whose concentration is to be determined such as by spectroscopy . The several sample droplets S shown in represent either separate sample droplets S that have been discretized from continuous flow source or a single sample droplet S movable to different locations on the electrode array over time and along various analysis flow paths available in accordance with the sequencing of the electrodes.

The method can be characterized as digitizing analytical signals from an analog input to facilitate the processing of such signals. It will be understood that the droplet manipulative operations depicted in can advantageously occur on an electrode array as described hereinabove. Such array can be fabricated on or embedded in the surface of a microfluidic chip with or without other features or devices ordinarily associated with IC MEMS and microfluidic technologies. Through appropriate sequencing and control of the electrodes of the array such as through communication with an appropriate electronic controller sampling including droplet formation and transport can be done on a continuous and automated basis.

In the liquid input flow of continuous flow source is supplied to the electrode array at a suitable injection point. Utilizing the electrowetting based techniques described hereinabove continuous liquid flow is fragmented or discretized into a series or train of sample droplets S of uniform size. One or more of these newly formed sample droplets S can then be manipulated according to a desired protocol which can include one or more of the fundamental MOVE MERGE MIX and or SPLIT operations described hereinabove as well as any operations derived from these fundamental operations. In particular the invention enables sample droplets S to be diverted from continuous liquid input flow for on chip analysis or other on chip processing. For example shows droplets being transported along programmable analysis flow paths across the microfluidic chip to one or more functional cells or regions situated on the surface of microfluidic chip such as cells and .

Functional cells and can comprise for example mixers reactors detectors or storage areas. In the case of mixers and reactors sample droplets S are combined with additive droplets Rand or Rthat are supplied from one or more separate reservoirs or injection sites on or adjacent to the microfluidic chip and conveyed across the microfluidic chip according to the electrowetting technique. In the case of mixers additive droplets Rand or Rcan be other sample substances whose compositions are different from sample droplets S. Alternatively when dilution of sample droplets S is desired additive droplets Rand or Rcan be solvents of differing types. In the case of reactors additive droplets Rand or Rcan contain chemical reagents of differing types. For example the electrode array or a portion thereof could be employed as a miniaturized version of multi sample liquid handling assaying apparatus which conventionally requires the use of such large components as 96 well microtitre plates solvent bottles liquid transfer tubing syringe or peristaltic pumps multi part valves and robotic systems.

Functional cells and preferably comprise one or more electrode containing unit cells on the array. Such functional cells and can in many cases be defined by the sequencing of their corresponding control electrodes where the sequencing is programmed as part of the desired protocol and controlled by an electronic control unit communicating with the microfluidic chip. Accordingly functional cells and can be created anywhere on the electrode array of the microfluidic chip and reconfigured on a real time basis. For example illustrates a mixer cell generally designated MC that can be created for mixing or diluting a sample droplet S with an additive droplet R according to any of the mixing strategies disclosed herein. Mixer cell MC comprises a 5 3 matrix of electrode containing unit cells that could be part of a larger electrode array provided by the chip. Mixer cell MC is thus rendered from five electrode cell rows ROW ROW and three electrode cell columns COL COL. MERGE and SPLIT operations can occur at the centrally located electrodes E Eas described hereinabove with reference to . The electrodes associated with outer columns COL and COL and outer rows ROW and ROW can be used to define transport paths over which sample droplet S and additive droplet R are conveyed from other areas of the electrode array such as after being discretized from continuous flow source see or B . A 2 2 sub array can be defined for implementing two dimensional loop mixing processes as illustrated in . During a MIX MERGE SPLIT or HOLD operation some or all of the electrodes associated with outer columns COL and COL and outer rows ROW and ROW can be grounded to serve as gates and thus isolate mixer cell MC from other areas on the chip. If necessary complete or substantially complete mixing can be accomplished by a passive mechanism such as diffusion or by an active mechanism such as by moving or shaking the combined droplet according to electrowetting as described hereinabove.

The invention contemplates providing other types of functional cells including functional cells that are essentially miniaturized embodiments or emulations of traditional macro scale devices or instruments such as reactors detectors and other analytical or measuring instruments. For example a droplet could be isolated and held in a single row or column of the main electrode array or at a cell situated off the main array to emulate a sample holding cell or flow cell through which a beam of light is passed in connection with known optical spectroscopic techniques. A light beam of an initial intensity could be provided from an input optical fiber and passed through the droplet contained by the sample cell. The attenuated light beam leaving the droplet could then enter an output optical fiber and routed to an appropriate detection apparatus such as a photocell. The optical fibers could be positioned on either side of the sample cell or could be provided in a miniature dip probe that is incorporated with or inserted into the sample cell.

Referring back to upon completion of a process executed at a functional cell e.g. cell or the resulting product droplets not shown can be conveyed to respective reservoirs or located either on or off the microfluidic chip for the purpose of waste collection storage or output. In addition sample droplets S and or product droplets can be recombined into a continuous liquid output flow at a suitable output site on or adjacent to the microfluidic chip for the purposes of collection waste reception or output to a further process. Moreover the droplets processed by functional cell or can be prepared sample droplets that have been diluted and or reacted in one or more steps and then transported by electrowetting to another portion of the chip dedicated to detection or measurement of the analyte. Some detection sites can for example contain bound enzymes or other biomolecular recognition agents and be specific for particular analytes. Other detection sites can consist of a general means of detection such as an optical system for fluorescence or absorbance based assays an example of which is given hereinabove.

In the alternative embodiment shown in continuous liquid flow is supplied from an input site A and completely traverses the surface of the microfluidic chip to an output site B. In this embodiment sample droplets S are formed i.e. continuous liquid input flow is sampled at specific selectable unit cell locations along the length of continuous liquid input flow such as the illustrated location and subsequent electrowetting based manipulations are executed as described hereinabove in relation to the embodiment of .

The methods described in connection with have utility in many applications. Applications of on line microfluidic analysis can include for example analysis of microdialysis or other biological perfusion flows environmental and water quality monitoring and monitoring of industrial and chemical processes such as fermentation. Analysis can include the determination of the presence concentration or activity of any specific substance within the flowing liquid. On line continuous analysis is beneficial in any application where real time measurement of a time varying chemical signal is required a classic example being glucose monitoring of diabetic patients. Microfluidics reduces the quantity of sample required for an analysis thereby allowing less invasive sampling techniques that avoid depleting the analyte being measured while also permitting miniaturized and portable instruments to be realized.

The droplet based methods of the invention provide a number of advantages over known continuous flow based microscale methods as well as more conventional macroscale instrument based methods. Referring to either or B the flow of sample droplets S from continuous flow source to the analysis portion of the chip i.e. the analysis flow is controlled independently of the continuous flow i.e. the input flow thereby allowing a great deal of flexibility in carrying out the analyses. The de coupling of the analysis flow from the continuous input flow allows each respective flow to be separately optimized and controlled. For example in microdialysis the continuous flow can be optimized to achieve a particular recovery rate while the analysis flow is optimized for a particular sensitivity or sampling rate. Reagent droplets R can be mixed with sample droplets S in the analysis flow without affecting or contaminating the main input flow. Sample droplets S in the analysis flow can be stored or incubated indefinitely without interrupting the input flow. Analyses requiring different lengths of time can be carried out simultaneously and in parallel without interrupting the input flow.

In either embodiment depicted in or B the analysis or other processing of sample droplets S is carried out on line insofar as the analysis occurs as part of the same sequential process as the input of continuous flow source . However the analysis is not carried out in line with respect to continuous liquid input flow because newly formed sample droplets S are diverted away from continuous liquid input flow . This design thus allows the analysis flow to be de coupled from the input flow.

As another advantage multiple analytes can be simultaneously measured. Since continuous liquid flow is fragmented into sample droplets S each sample droplet S can be mixed with a different reagent droplet Ror Ror conducted to a different test site on the chip to allow simultaneous measurement of multiple analytes in a single sample without cross talk or cross contamination. Additionally multiple step chemical protocols are possible thereby allowing a wide range of types of analyses to be performed in a single chip.

Moreover calibration and sample measurements can be multiplexed. Calibrant droplets can be generated and measured between samples. Calibration does not require cessation of the input flow and periodic recalibration during monitoring is possible. In addition detection or sensing can be multiplexed for multiple analytes. For example a single fluorimeter or absorbance detector may be utilized to measure multiple analytes by sequencing the delivery of sample droplets S to the detector site.

Another important advantage is the reconfigurability of the operation of the chip. Sampling rates can be dynamically varied through software control. Mixing ratios calibration procedures and specific tests can all be controlled through software allowing flexible and reconfigurable operation of the chip. Feedback control is possible which allows analysis results to influence the operation of the chip.

Referring now to a binary mixing apparatus generally designated is illustrated in accordance with the invention. Binary mixing apparatus is useful for implementing a droplet based variable dilution binary mixing technique in one two or more mixing phases to obtain desired mixing ratios. The degree of precision of the resulting mixing ratio depends on the number of discrete binary mixing units utilized. As one example schematically illustrates a first binary mixing unit and a second binary mixing unit . When more than one mixing unit is provided a buffer is preferably provided in fluid communication with the mixing units to store intermediate products and transfer intermediate products between the mixing units as needed. A suitable electronic controller EC such as a microprocessor capable of executing the instructions of a computer program communicates with first binary mixing unit second binary mixing unit and buffer through suitable communication lines and respectively.

Binary mixing apparatus can be fabricated on a microfluidic chip for the purpose of carrying out binary interpolating digital mixing procedures in accordance with the invention. In designing the physical layouts of the various droplet handling components of binary mixing apparatus examples of which are illustrated in electrode design and transportation design scheduling were considered. The particular physical layout at least in part determines the code or instruction set executed by electronic controller EC to control the electrodes and thus the types and sequences of droplet based manipulation to be performed. Preferably the electrode containing droplet handling regions of binary mixing apparatus are structured as shown in the cross sectional view of described hereinabove in connection with electrowetting microactuator mechanism or according to a single sided electrode configurations described hereinbelow. The electrodes of each mixing unit can be sequenced to implement any of the mixing strategies disclosed herein.

The architecture of binary mixing apparatus is designed to take full advantage of accelerated rates observed in droplet to droplet mixing experiments while allowing precisely controlled mixing ratios that can be varied dynamically for multi point calibrations. As will become evident from the description herein binary mixing apparatus can handle a wide range of mixing ratios with certain accuracy and enables mixing patterns that demonstrate high parallelism in the mixing operation as well as scalability in the construction of mixing components in a two dimensional array. Binary mixing apparatus can handle a wide range of droplet sizes. There is however a lower limit on droplet size if sample droplets are being prepared for the purpose of a detection or measurement.

The architecture of binary mixing apparatus is based on the recognition that the most efficient mixing most likely occurs between two droplets moving toward each other. This has been observed from experiments and could be explained by the fact that convection induced by shear movement of fluids accelerates the mixing process much faster than pure physical diffusion. Thus as a general design principle one by one mixing is utilized as much as possible. As indicated hereinabove one by one mixing preferably involves both mixing and splitting operations to maintain uniform droplet size. The basic MIX and SPLIT operations have been described hereinabove with reference to .

Certain assumptions have been made in design of the architecture of binary mixing apparatus and include the following 

Thus one design objective was to complete the mixing process using a minimum number of mixing splitting operations while maintaining the accuracy of the mixing ratio.

Moreover some desirable attributes for an ideal mixing architecture were considered to be as follows 

The architecture of binary mixing apparatus implements multiple hierarchies of binary mixing phases with the first hierarchy providing the approximate mixing ratio and the following ones employed as the calibration mechanism. The concept is analogous to an interpolating Digital to Analog Converter DAC whose architecture is divided into two parts with the main DAC handling the MSB most significant bit in a binary manner and the sub DAC dealing with calibration and correction down to the LSB least significant bit . An example of a one phase binary mixing process carried out to produce sixteen sample droplets diluted to a concentration of 1 32 is described hereinbelow with reference to .

It is believed that mixing in a binary manner results in dilution to large ratios in the power of two with only a few mixing operations. The accuracy of the ratio can be calibrated by further mixing two intermediate products in a binary manner. For example one mixing process could produce concentrations of 1 8 and another could produce concentrations of 1 16. When these two mixtures further mix with 1 1 1 3 3 1 1 7 and 7 1 ratios respectively the final product would have concentrations of 1 10.67 1 12.8 1 9.14 1 14.2 and 1 8.53 respectively. Based on this principle any ratio can be obtained in a few mixing phases with acceptable tolerance. If further accuracy is needed an additional mixing phase using products from the previous phase can be used to calibrate the ratio. As indicated previously the process of approaching the expected ratio to high accuracy could be characterized as a successive approximation process that is similar to one used in Analog to Digital converter design. It is an approach that trades off speed with accuracy. However the number of mixing phases required for adequate accuracy is surprisingly small. Generally when the required ratio is smaller than 32 two mixing phases are often enough. Ratios larger than 32 but smaller than 64 would possibly need three mixing phases. It is also observed that different combinations of intermediate products mixed with a range of binary ratios would produce more interpolating points to further increase the accuracy thus eliminating the necessities of using extra mixing phases.

Based on known mathematical principles the architecture of binary mixing apparatus can be designed to have preferably two same structured mixing units e.g. first binary mixing unit and second binary mixing unit shown in with each binary mixing unit and handling binary mixing and generating certain volumes of mixture. Each binary mixing unit and can produce different mixing ratios of a power of two according to different operations. In the first mixing phase the sample is mixed with the reagent with a ratio of any of the series 1 1 1 3 1 7 . . . 1 2 using two binary mixing units and in parallel. The products are two mixtures with the same volume. The ratio of the two mixtures is determined by the required ratio of the final product and preferably is controlled by a computer program. In a second phase the two mixtures mix with a certain binary ratio in one of the two units. Buffer is used to store some of the intermediate products when second phase mixing is carried out in one of binary mixing units or . Since the volume of the intermediate product is limited e.g. 16 droplets the second mixing cannot be carried out with an arbitrarily large binary ratio. From the description herein of the structure and operation of binary mixing apparatus it can be demonstrated that the possible binary ratio in the following mixing phase is constrained to be less than or equal to 31 given that 4 columns and 16 droplets are generated from each unit. Even so sufficient accuracy could be obtained after a second phase. If further accuracy is demanded additional mixing can be carried out to generate a mixture closer to the requirement using the product from the second phase and another mixture with power of two series ratio e.g. a calibration mixture .

From the description above it can be observed that generating powers of two series mixtures can be a fundamental process in obtaining an expected ratio. The exact ratio of this mixture could be decided ahead of time or varied dynamically. For example during the first phase of mixing the two ratios could be calculated ahead of time according to the required ratio. In the phase following the second phase however the calibration mixture could be decided dynamically given the feedback from the quality of previous mixing. Even if predecided it is likely that extra time would be needed to prepare the calibration mixture before a further phase mixing is carried out. In such a case the use of only two binary mixing units and might be not enough and an extra binary mixing unit could be added to prepare the calibration mixture in parallel with the previous calibration mixing process.

The determination of a mixing strategy includes calculating the number of mixing phases and the mixing ratio for each phase according to the required ratio and its tolerance. This determination can be solved by an optimization process with the number of mixing operations and time of the mixing as the objective function.

Referring now to an exemplary architecture for first binary mixing unit is illustrated with the understanding that second binary mixing unit and any other additional mixing units provided can be similarly designed. The embodiment shown in is capable of one phase mixing while the embodiment shown in to be briefly described hereinbelow is capable of two phase mixing. As shown in first binary mixing unit generally comprises a 7 7 electrode matrix or array generally designated EA consisting of 49 matrix electrodes and their associated cells E where i designates 1 2 . . . 7 rows of electrodes and j designates 1 2 . . . 7 columns of electrodes. identifies matrix electrodes Eof electrode array EA in accordance with a two dimensional system of rows ROW ROW and columns COL COL. The invention however is not limited to any specific number of electrodes rows and columns. A larger or smaller electrode array EA could be provided as appropriate.

Referring back to a sample reservoir waste reservoir and reagent reservoir are also provided. Depending on the position of reservoirs and in relation to electrode array EA a suitable number and arrangement of transport or path electrodes and associated cells T Tare provided for conveying droplets to and from electrode array EA. A number of electrical leads e.g. L are connected to matrix electrodes Eand transport electrodes T Tto control the movement or other manipulation of droplets. It will be understood that electrical leads L communicate with a suitable electronic controller such as a microprocessor e.g. electronic controller EC in . Each matrix electrode Ecould have its own independent electrical lead connection. However to reduce the number of electrical leads L and hence simplify the architecture of first binary mixing unit the electrodes of each of columns COL COL see are connected to common electrical leads L as shown in . These common connections must be taken into consideration when writing the protocol for mixing operations to be carried out by first binary mixing unit .

In effect each binary mixing unit and of binary mixing apparatus is designed to have 4 4 logic cells with each cell storing the sample reagent or intermediate mixture. This can be conceptualized by comparing the matrix layout of with the 4 4 logic cell matrix illustrated in . The 4 4 construct accounts for the fact that droplets combine on intermediate control electrodes from adjacent control electrodes e.g. intermediate control electrode Eand adjacent control electrodes Eand Ein the mixed droplet is then split and the newly formed mixed droplets are then returned to the adjacent control electrodes at the completion of the MIX or MIX SPLIT operation. Hence certain rows of electrodes need only be used as temporary intermediate electrodes during the actual droplet combination event. The construct also accounts for the fact that certain columns of electrodes need only be used for droplet transport e.g. shifting droplets from one column to another to make room for the addition of new reagent droplets . In view of the foregoing electrode rows ROW ROW and ROW and columns COL COL and COL in are depicted simply as lines in . Also in active electrodes are indicated by shaded bars mixing operations are indicated by the symbol . Additionally droplet concentrations are indicated by numbers e.g. 0 1 1 2 next to rows and columns where droplets reside.

It can be seen that one by one mixing can occur between some of the adjacent cells in horizontal or vertical directions from the perspective of the drawing sheets containing depending on whether active electrodes exist between the two cells. In the first column between any of the two adjacent row cells containing droplets an active electrode exists that allows the two adjacent row cells to perform mixing operations. In other columns there are no active electrodes between two row cells. This is illustrated for example in . Between any of the columns containing droplets electrodes exist that allow any of the cells in one column to conduct a mixing operation with the cells of its adjacent column simultaneously. This is illustrated for example in . By the use of the active electrodes the content of a logic cell i.e. a droplet can move from one row to another in the first column or move between columns. The employment of the 4 4 logic structure is designed for the optimization of binary operations as demonstrated by the following example. It will be noted that the volume output of the present one mixing unit embodiment of first binary mixing unit is limited to 16 droplets although the physical volume of the final product can be adjusted by changing the size of each droplet.

To demonstrate how binary mixing apparatus can produce any of the power of two ratios illustrate an example of a series of mixing operations targeting a 1 31 ratio equal to 1 32 concentration . It can be seen that the mixing process has two basic stages a row mix and a column mix. Generally the purpose of the row mix is to approach the range of the mixing ratio with a minimum volume of two mixing inputs. The purpose of the column mix is to produce the required volume at the output and at the same time obtain another four fold increase in ratio. Thus as indicated in F to obtain a 1 31 ratio the row mix results in a 1 7 ratio or 1 8 concentration see . The column mix assists in achieving the final product ratio of 1 31 or 1 32 concentration see .

Referring specifically to a single row mix is performed by combining a sample droplet Shaving a concentration of 1 i.e. 100 with a reagent or solvent droplet Rhaving a concentration of 0. This results in two intermediate mixture droplets Iand I each having a 1 2 concentration as shown in . One of the intermediate mixture droplets e.g. I is discarded and a new reagent droplet Ris moved to the logic cell adjacent to the remaining intermediate mixture droplet e.g. I . Another row mix is performed by combining intermediate mixture droplet and reagent droplet R. This results two intermediate mixture droplets Iand I each having a 1 4 concentration as shown in . Two new reagent droplets Rand Rare then added and in a double row mix operation combined with respective intermediate mixture droplets Iand I. This results in four intermediate mixture droplets I I each having a 1 8 concentration as shown in .

As also shown in four new reagent droplets R Rare then moved onto the matrix adjacent to respective intermediate mixture droplets I I. A column mix is then performed as between each corresponding pair of intermediate mixture droplets I Iand reagent droplets R R. This produces eight intermediate mixture droplets I I each having a 1 16 concentration as shown in . As also shown in each column of four intermediate mixture droplets I Iand I I respectively is shifted over one column to the right to enable two columns of new reagent droplets R Rand R R respectively to be loaded onto the outer columns of the matrix. Each corresponding pair of intermediate mixture droplets and reagent droplets e.g. Iand R Iand R etc. is then combined through additional column mix operations.

As a result of these mixing operations sixteen final mixture product droplets P Pare produced each having a final concentration of 1 32 corresponding to the target mix ratio of 1 31 as shown in . Product droplets P Pare now prepared for any subsequent operation contemplated such sampling detection analysis and the like as described by way of example hereinabove. Additionally depending on the precise mix ratio desired product droplets P Pcan be subjected to a second or even a third phase of mixing operations if needed as described hereinabove. Such additional mixing phases can occur at a different area on the electrode array of which first binary mixing unit could be a part. Alternatively as illustrated in the final mixture droplets can be conveyed to another binary mixing apparatus e.g. second binary mixing unit that fluidly communicates directly with first binary mixing unit or through buffer .

The method of the invention can be applied to ratios less than or greater than 31. For example if the goal is to obtain a ratio of 1 15 the row mix would mix the input to a ratio of 1 3 which would require two mixing operations instead of three for obtaining a mixing ratio of 1 7. In terms of mixing operations can be used to show that the first stage for row mix single and the discard operation for the second stage could be eliminated in such a case.

To further explain the detailed operations for completing the mixing of 1 31 a pseudo code for the example specifically illustrated in and with general reference to is listed as follows 

The above pseudo code also standardizes the possible mixing operations into one mixing process. The sequence of the operations is subject to more potential optimization to increase the throughput of the mixing while decreasing the number of mixing operations. This design also keeps in mind that the number of active electrodes should be maintained as small as possible while making sure all the mixing operations function properly. In the preferred embodiment each binary mixing unit and see is designed to have 13 active electrodes to handle the mixing functions. The capability of transporting the droplets into and inside the each binary mixing unit and is another consideration. Initially the two outside columns of the array could be used as transportation channels running along both sides of the mixer to deliver droplets into the mixer simultaneously with other operations of the mixer. The same number of electrodes can also handle these transportation functions.

The second phase is the mixing process when the intermediate products from two binary mixing units and see are to be mixed. It is similar to the standard binary mixing process in the first phase described hereinabove with reference to . The only difference is that the second phase mixing is carried out in one of binary mixing units and holding the previous mixing product e.g. product droplets P Pshown in . As indicated previously buffer is used to hold some of the product during the process.

It can be calculated that the maximum ratio of mixing during the second phase is limited to 31. The reason is that to obtain the maximum ratio row mixing should be used as much as possible. When row mixing is used to increase the ratio less input is lost during the discard process. Thus when there are finite amounts of input material the first choice is to see how far the row mixing can go until there is just enough volume left to fulfill the requirement for mixture output. In this way it could be known that two mixtures with 16 droplets can only mix with the largest ratio of 1 31 when the output requirement is specified to no less than 16 droplets. It can also be demonstrated from that to mix with a ratio of 1 31 16 droplets of reagents would be the minimum amount.

The physical layout for first binary mixing unit illustrated in can be modified to better achieve two phase mixing capability. Accordingly referring now to a two phase mixing unit generally designated is illustrated. The architecture of two phase mixing unit is similar to that of first binary mixing unit of and thus includes the 7 7 matrix a sample reservoir a waste reservoir a reagent reservoir and an appropriate number and arrangement of off array electrodes as needed for transport of droplets from the various reservoirs to the 7 7 matrix. Two phase mixing unit additionally includes a cleaning reservoir to supply cleaning fluid between mixing processes as well as an outlet site for transporting product droplets to other mixing units or to buffer see . Moreover it can be seen that additional rows and columns of electrodes are provided at the perimeter of the 7 7 matrix to provide transport paths for droplets to and from the matrix.

Further insight into the performance of the architecture of binary mixing apparatus can be obtained by considering the TABLE set forth hereinbelow. This TABLE was constructed to list all the possible interpolating mixing ratios using a two phase mixing strategy for a maximum mixing ratio of 63 or equivalently a maximum concentration of 1 64 . The corresponding mixing parameters such as the mixing ratio for mixing unit and e.g. first and second binary mixing units and in the first phase the mixing ratio for the second phase and the total mixing cycles are also recorded. The TABLE can serve as a basis for selecting the proper mixing strategy and or further optimization in terms of trading off accuracy with time improving resource usage when multiple mixers exist decreasing total mixing operations improving parallelism and so on. The TABLE can be provided as a look up table or data structure as part of the software used to control apparatus .

The TABLE shows that there are a total of 196 mixing strategies using the architecture of the invention which corresponds to 152 unique mixing points. The 196 mixing strategies are calculated by interpolating any possible combinations of two mixtures with power of two ratios under 63. These points have non linear instead of linear intervals. The smaller the ratio the smaller the interval. The achievable points are plotted in . It is evident from the TABLE that the number of achievable ratios is larger than traditional linear mixing points and the distribution is more reasonable. In addition certain volumes of output other than one droplet can allow more tolerance on the error caused by one by one mixing. In terms of mixing cycles the best performance is for mixing ratios of the power of two compared to their nearby ratios. In terms of accuracy the larger the ratio generally the worse the performance since a smaller number of interpolating points can be achieved.

It can be observed from the two phase mixing plan plotted in that there are not enough points when the target ratio is larger than 36. shows that there is no point around a ratio of 40. The difference between the target and theoretical achievable ratio could amount to 3. However by careful examination of the achievable points around 40 an appropriate usage of the remaining mixture from phase one to further calibrate the available points can result in several additional interpolating points between 36.5714 and 42.6667 where the largest error exists from the phase two mixing plan. For instance the mixing plan in the TABLE calls for obtaining mixture and mixture with ratios of 1 31 and 1 63 respectively then mixing them with a ratio of 3 1. It is known that there are 3 4 parts of mixture left. So it is possible to mix the mixture from phase two with a concentration of 36.517 with mixture of concentration using ratio of 3 1 7 1 etc. That leads to a point at 40.9 38.5 etc. In such manner more accuracy is possible with an additional mixing phase but with only a small increase in mixing cycles two and three cycles respectively in this example and at the expense of no additional preparation of calibration mixture.

The aspects of the invention thus far have been described in connection with the use of a droplet actuating apparatus that has a two sided electrode configuration such as microactuator mechanism illustrated in . That is lower plane contains control or drive electrodes E Eand upper plane contains ground electrode G. As regards microactuator mechanism the function of upper plane is to bias droplet D at the ground potential or some other reference potential. The grounding or biasing to reference of upper plane in connection with the selective biasing of drive electrodes E Eof lower plane generates a potential difference that enables droplet D to be moved by the step wise electrowetting technique described herein. However in accordance with another embodiment of the invention the design of the apparatus employed for two dimensional electrowetting based droplet manipulation can be simplified and made more flexible by eliminating the need for a grounded upper plane .

Referring now to a single sided electrowetting microactuator mechanism generally designated is illustrated. Microactuator mechanism comprises a lower plane similar to that of mechanism of and thus includes a suitable substrate on which two dimensional array of closely packed drive electrodes E e.g. drive electrodes E Eand others are embedded such as by patterning a conductive layer of copper chrome ITO and the like. A dielectric layer covers drive electrodes E. Dielectric layer is hydrophobic and or is treated with a hydrophobic layer not specifically shown . As a primary difference from microactuator mechanism of a two dimensional grid of conducting lines G at a reference potential e.g. conducting lines G Gand others has been superimposed on the electrode array of microactuator mechanism of with each conducting line G running through the gaps between adjacent drive electrodes E. The reference potential can be a ground potential a nominal potential or some other potential that is lower than the actuation potential applied to drive electrodes E. Each conducting line G can be a wire bar or any other conductive structure that has a much narrower width length aspect ratio in relation to drive electrodes E. Each conducting line G could alternatively comprise a closely packed series of smaller electrodes but in most cases this alternative would impractical due to the increased number of electrical connections that would be required.

Importantly the conducting line grid is coplanar or substantially coplanar with the electrode array. The conducting line grid can be embedded on lower plane by means of microfabrication processes commonly used to create conductive interconnect structures on microchips. It thus can be seen that microactuator mechanism can be constructed as a single substrate device. It is preferable however to include an upper plane comprising a plate having a hydrophobic surface such as a suitable plastic sheet or a hydrophobized glass plate. Unlike microactuator mechanism of however upper plane of microactuator mechanism of does not function as an electrode to bias droplet D. Instead upper plane functions solely as a structural component to contain droplet D and any filler fluid such as an inert gas or immiscible liquid.

In the use of microactuator mechanism for electrowetting based droplet manipulations it is still a requirement that a ground or reference connection to droplet D be maintained essentially constantly throughout the droplet transport event. Hence the size or volume of droplet D is selected to ensure that droplet D overlaps all adjacent drive electrodes E as well as all conducting lines G surrounding the drive electrode on which droplet D resides e.g. electrode Ein . Moreover it is preferable that dielectric layer be patterned to cover only drive electrodes E so that conducting lines C are exposed to droplet D or at least are not electrically isolated from droplet D. At the same time however it is preferable that conducting lines G be hydrophobic along with drive electrodes E so as not to impair movement of droplet D. Thus in a preferred embodiment after dielectric layer is patterned both drive electrodes E and conducting lines G are coated or otherwise treated so as render them hydrophobic. The hydrophobization of conducting lines G is not specifically shown in . It will be understood however that the hydrophobic layer covering conducting lines G is so thin that an electrical contact between droplet D and conducting lines G can still be maintained due to the porosity of the hydrophobic layer.

To operate microactuator mechanism a suitable voltage source V and electrical lead components are connected with conducting lines G and drive electrodes E. Because conducting lines G are disposed in the same plane as drive electrodes E application of an electrical potential between conducting lines G and a selected one of drive electrodes E E or E with the selection being represented by switches S Sin establishes an electric field in the region of dielectric layer beneath droplet D. Analogous to the operation of microactuator mechanism of the electric field in turn creates a surface tension gradient to cause droplet D overlapping the energized electrode to move toward that electrode e.g. drive electrode Eif movement is intended in right hand direction in . The electrode array can be sequenced in a predetermined manner according to a set of software instructions or in real time in response to a suitable feedback circuit.

It will thus be noted that microactuator mechanism with its single sided electrode configuration can be used to implement all functions and methods described hereinabove in connection with the two sided electrode configuration of e.g. dispensing transporting merging mixing incubating splitting analyzing monitoring reacting detecting disposing and so on to realize a miniaturized lab on a chip system. For instance to move droplet D shown in to the right drive electrodes Eand Eare activated to cause droplet D to spread onto drive electrode E. Subsequent de activation of drive electrode Ecauses droplet D to relax to a more favorable lower energy state and droplet D becomes centered on drive electrode E. As another example to split droplet D drive electrodes E Eand Eare activated to cause droplet D to spread onto drive electrodes Eand E. Drive electrode Eis then de activated to cause droplet D to break into two droplets respectively centered on drive electrodes Eand E.

Referring now to an alternative single sided electrode configuration is illustrated in accordance with the present invention. A base substrate containing an array of row and column biasing electrodes Eis again utilized as in previously described embodiments. Referring specifically to an array or portion of an array is shown in which three rows of electrodes E E E E and E E respectively are provided. The rows and columns of the electrode array can be aligned as described herein for other embodiments of the invention. Alternatively as specifically shown in the array can be misaligned such that the electrodes in any given row are offset from the electrodes of adjacent rows. For instance electrodes E Eof the first row and electrodes E Eof the third row are offset from electrodes E Eof the intermediate second row. Whether aligned or misaligned the electrode array is preferably covered with insulating and hydrophobic layers as in previously described embodiments. As in the configuration illustrated in a top plate not shown can be provided for containment but does not function as an electrode.

In operation selected biasing electrodes Eare dynamically assigned as either driving electrodes or grounding or reference electrodes. To effect droplet actuation the assignment of a given electrode as a drive electrode requires that an adjacent electrode be assigned as a ground or reference electrode to create a circuit inclusive with droplet D and thereby enable the application of an actuation voltage. In electrode Eis energized and thus serves as the drive electrode and electrode Eis grounded or otherwise set to a reference potential. All other electrodes Eof the illustrated array or at least those electrodes surrounding the driving reference electrode pair E E remain in an electrically floating state. As shown in this activation causes droplet D overlapping both electrodes Eand E to seek an energetically favorable state by moving so as to become centered along the gap or interfacial region between electrodes Eand E.

In electrode Eis deactivated and electrode Efrom an adjacent row is activated to serve as the next driving electrode. Electrode Eremains grounded or referenced. This causes droplet D to center itself between electrodes Eand Eby moving in a resultant northeast direction as indicated by the arrow. As shown in droplet D is actuated to the right along the gap between the first two electrode rows by deactivating electrode Eand activating electrode E. As shown in electrode Eis disconnected from ground or reference and electrode Eis then grounded or referenced to cause droplet D to continue to advance to the right. It can be seen that additional sequencing of electrodes Eto render them either driving or reference electrodes can be performed to cause droplet D to move in any direction along any desired flow path on the electrode array. It can be further seen that unlike previously described embodiments the flow path of droplet transport occurs along the gaps between electrodes Eas opposed to along the centers of electrodes Ethemselves. It is also observed that the required actuation voltage will in most cases be higher as compared with the configuration shown in because the dielectric layer covers both the driving and reference electrodes and thus its thickness is effectively doubled.

Referring now to an electrode array with aligned rows and columns can be used to cause droplet transport in straight lines in either the north south or east west directions. The operation is analogous to that just described with reference to . That is programmable sequencing of pairs of drive and reference electrodes causes the movement of droplet D along the intended direction. In electrodes E Eand Eof one column are selectively set to a ground or reference potential and electrodes E Eand Eof an adjacent column are selectively energized. In electrodes E E Eand Eof one row are selectively energized and electrodes E E Eand Eof an adjacent row are selectively grounded or otherwise referenced.

It will be noted that a microactuator mechanism provided with the alternative single sided electrode configurations illustrated in and can be used to implement all functions and methods described hereinabove in connection with the two sided electrode configuration of . For instance to split droplet D in either of the alternative configurations three or more adjacent electrodes are activated to spread droplet D and an appropriately selected intervening electrode is then de activated to break droplet D into two droplets.

It will be understood that various details of the invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the invention. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation the invention being defined by the claims.

