---

title: Terminal assembly module for connecting an industrial controller to pre-existing I/O wiring
abstract: A terminal assembly module is provided that simplifies the transfer of I/O wiring from a pre-existing industrial controller to a replacement industrial controller. The terminal assembly module replaces an I/O module in the pre-existing industrial controller chassis. The I/O module terminal block, with I/O wiring maintained intact, is removed from the discarded I/O module and installed on the terminal assembly module. A multi-conductor cable is then plugged into a cable connector on the front of the terminal assembly module, which electrically connects the I/O module terminals to the conductors of the cable. The cable conductors can then be connected to the I/O modules of the new industrial controller. Thus, the terminal assembly module eliminates the need to disconnect the existing I/O wiring from the I/O module terminal blocks of the pre-existing industrial controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09585278&OS=09585278&RS=09585278
owner: W INTERCONNECTIONS, INC.
number: 09585278
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141210
---
The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to installation of industrial controllers and more particularly to a terminal assembly module that electrically connects I O modules of a replacement industrial controller to pre existing I O wiring without the need to disconnect the I O wiring from the obsolete I O module terminals.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one or more embodiments a terminal assembly module is provided comprising a carrier configured to mount over a slot of an industrial controller chassis and a circuit board mounted to the carrier wherein the circuit board comprises at least one edge connector having conductive strips that are electrically connected via conductive traces on the printed circuit board to respective pins of a cable connector mounted to the circuit board and wherein the carrier is configured to orient the at least one edge connector and the cable connector to face outward through the front of the industrial controller chassis and to align the at least one edge connector to interface with at least one I O terminal block of an I O module while the carrier is mounted over the slot.

Also one or more embodiments provide a method for manufacturing a terminal assembly module for electrically connecting I O device wiring to an industrial controller comprising fabricating a circuit board comprising at least one edge connector with conductive strips mounting a cable connector to the circuit board electrically connecting the conductive strips of the at least one edge connector to respective pins of the cable connector via conductive traces on the circuit board and mounting the circuit board to a carrier configured to mount over a slot of an industrial controller chassis wherein the mounting comprises mounting the circuit board such that when the carrier is mounted over the slot the at least one edge connector and the cable connector face outward through the front of the industrial controller chassis and the at least one edge connector is positioned to connect to at least one I O terminal block of an I O module.

Also according to one or more embodiments system for electrically connecting an I O module of an industrial controller to I O device wiring is provided comprising a circuit board comprising at least one edge connector and a cable connector wherein the at least one edge connector comprises conductive strips that are electrically connected to respective pins of the cable connector via conductive traces on the circuit board and a carrier configured to mount over a slot of an industrial controller chassis and to hold the circuit board with the at least one edge connector and the cable connector facing outward through the front of the industrial controller chassis while the carrier is mounted over the slot wherein the carrier is configured to position the at least one edge connector within the slot to allow the at least one edge connector to connect to at least one I O terminal block of an I O module.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removable affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modern automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Controller may communicatively interface with controlled processes over hardwired or networked connections . For example controller can be equipped with native hardwired inputs and outputs that communicate with one or more field devices associated with the controlled processes to effect control of the devices. The native controller I O can include digital I O that transmits and receives discrete voltage signals to and from the field devices or analog I O that transmits and receives analog voltage or current signals to and from the devices. The controller I O can communicate with the controller s processor over a backplane such that the digital and analog signals can be read into and controlled by the control programs. Controller can also communicate with field devices over a network using for example a communication module or an integrated networking port. Exemplary networks can include the Internet intranets Ethernet DeviceNet ControlNet Data Highway and Data Highway Plus DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus wireless networks serial protocols and the like.

The example system may also includes at least one human machine interface e.g. a human machine interface or HMI communicatively coupled with controller e.g. via a network connection to visualize the controlled processes. HMI can exchange data with controller to facilitate visualization of information relating to controlled processes and to allow an operator to submit data to controller in the form of issued commands e.g. cycle start commands device actuation commands etc. setpoint values and the like. HMI can generate one or more display screens through which the operator interacts with the controller and thereby with the controlled processes . Example display screens can visualize present states of the controlled processes using graphical representations of the processes that display metered or calculated values employ color or position animations based on state render alarm notifications or employ other such techniques for presenting relevant data to the operator. Data presented in this manner is read from controller by HMI and presented on one or more of the display screens according to display formats chosen by the system developer.

Controlled processes typically comprise one or more I O devices that are electrically connected to the industrial controller via the controller s I O modules as illustrated in . These I O devices may comprise digital input devices e.g. push buttons selector switches safety devices proximity switches photo sensors etc digital output devices e.g. solenoid values indicator lights motor contactors etc. analog input devices e.g. 4 20 mA telemetry devices or other analog measurement devices or analog output devices e.g. variable frequency drives flow control valves speed control devices etc. . Typically each I O device is wired to a terminal of an appropriate I O module of industrial controller . I O modules are generally classified as digital input digital output analog input or analog output modules to accommodate the different types of I O devices . In order to suit the needs of each particular control application industrial controllers typically comprise a multi slot chassis that allows a selected type of I O module to be installed in each slot of the chassis. One slot of the chassis is typically dedicated to the controller s processor module although some designs allow the processor module to be inserted into any slot of the module.

In order to maintain performance integrity and safety it eventually becomes necessary to replaced older legacy controllers with new or upgraded controllers. Replacement of older industrial controllers may be driven for example by the availability of newer controllers offering enhanced performance smaller sizes and more intuitive user interface capabilities. Plant engineers may also choose to replace older controllers as those controllers approach the end of their practical life span in order to mitigate the risks associated with controller failure. Transitioning from an existing controller to a new controller is a complicated undertaking since in addition to accurately converting the existing control program to a format compatible with the new controller s programming platform the existing I O wiring must be disconnected from the older I O modules and reconnected to the I O modules of the new controller.

One technique for replacing an older controller with a new controller involves disconnecting the existing I O wiring from the old controller removing the old chassis including the old I O and processor modules from the panel inside the control cabinet and installing the new chassis processor module and I O modules on the panel. It then becomes necessary to re connect the existing I O wiring on the terminals of the new I O modules. However the size of the new chassis may be considerably different than that the old chassis typically a newer controller will have a smaller chassis than older controllers due to size reduction of newer components . Since the existing I O wiring was previously cut to size based on the size and shape of the original controller and the locations of the original I O module terminals this replacement technique often requires the existing I O wiring to be unbundled re cut re labeled and re crimped with new connectors before being connected to the terminals of the new I O modules. In some cases the some of the existing I O wires may be too short to reach the locations of their corresponding new I O module terminals requiring the complete replacement of some existing wires with newly routed wiring between the I O module and the appropriate terminal strip on the panel.

To address these and other issues one or more embodiments of this disclosure provide a terminal assembly module that allows the existing I O wiring to remain connected to the I O terminals of an original controller chassis while routing the signals carried on this existing I O wiring to a new cable harness that can be routed to the replacement controller within the control cabinet. This terminal assembly module allows the original controller chassis to remain mounted on the panel inside the control cabinet with the original I O wiring maintained. The new controller can then be installed elsewhere on the panel or in another cabinet entirely and the new cable harness can be routed from the old controller chassis to the new controller. This technique mitigates the need to modify the existing I O module wiring in order to accommodate the new controller size and shape.

I O module includes a front indicator panel that includes status indicators e.g. color coded light emitting diodes LEDs for conveying status information for each of the I O points of the module and or general module status information. In this example the terminals of I O module are disposed on two swing arms and that are hinged on the top and bottom respectively of chassis . is a side view of controller with the top swing arm partially swung away from I O module. Swing arms and each include two dowels located on either side of the swing arm that are designed to slot into respective grooves associated with each I O module slot. In this way each of the swing arms and are hinged about the dowels allowing the arms and their associated terminals to be swung away from the I O module as depicted in . The I O module includes two edge connectors on the front edge of the module s circuit board only the top edge connector is visible in . When the I O module is inserted into the slot the edge connectors are aligned such that when a swing arm is swung into the home position an elongated interface receptacle on the rear side of the swing arms electrically interfaces with edge connectors thereby electrically connecting the terminals on the swing arms with the I O module s circuit board. A screw on the non hinged end of the swing arm is used to lock the swing arm in place while in the home position.

Although the terminal assembly module to be disclosed herein is described in connection with the chassis and I O module design illustrated in it is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the terminal assembly module can be used with other chassis and I O module types and configurations and that the features of the terminal assembly module described herein are not limited to use with the particular type of chassis and I O modules illustrated in .

In order to place the automation systems or controlled processes in the field under the control of new industrial controller the existing field wiring must be connected to the new controller either by disconnecting the wire bundles from the old industrial controller and routing them to the appropriate I O modules of new industrial controller or by running new wires from terminal blocks to the new industrial controller . If the existing wire bundles are used it is likely that some or all of the wires will not be of suitable length for their new termination location. That is some wires may be too short to reach their new I O module terminal while others will be too long resulting in excessive wire slack that may require the wires to be cut to length re labeled and re crimped with new end connectors.

Alternatively if new wires are run from the terminal blocks to the new industrial controller the installer must disconnect and remove the old wire bundles from both the old I O modules and terminal blocks label and crimp both ends of the new wires and terminate the new wires on the terminal blocks as well as on the new I O modules.

In order to simplify the I O wiring to the new industrial controller and eliminate the need to remove the existing wire bundles from the old industrial controller a terminal assembly module is provided that can be installed in the old controller chassis as a replacement for an existing I O module. The terminal assembly module electrically connects the existing I O module terminals and their associated wires of the existing wire bundles to conductors of a new cable that can be routed to the new industrial controller . C are front rear and top views respectively of an example terminal assembly module designed for compatibility with the industrial controller illustrated in . The terminal assembly module comprises a printed circuit board mounted to a carrier which may be composed of plastic or another suitable non conductive material . The circuit board includes two edge connectors and of similar design to the edge connectors of I O module . That is edge connectors and are configured to mate with the terminal swing arms and that interface with the I O module .

Conductive strips on the edge connectors are connected to traces e.g. copper traces that electrically connect each conductive strip to a conductive pad on the circuit board . Each conductive pad is electrically connected to a pin of a male cable connector located in a cable receptacle area of carrier located between the two edge connectors and . Thus when a corresponding female cable connector of a multi conductor cable is plugged into the male cable connector the conductive strips of edge connectors and are electrically connected to respective conductors of the cable in some embodiments the cable connector installed on the terminal assembly module may be female while the connector attached to the cable may be male . The cable receptacle area is located on a lateral location of carrier generally corresponding to the location of front indicator panel of I O module . Two screw holes and are located on respective two sides of cable receptacle area and are configured to receive the screws of the swing arms to facilitate locking the swing arms in place.

Carrier includes two hinge portions and configured to receive the dowels of the swing arms and . These hinge portions assist in aligning the swing arms with the edge connectors such that the interface receptacles on the rear side of the swing arms electrically connect to the edge connectors .

Terminal assembly module is configured to replace an I O module in the existing chassis of old industrial controller . Accordingly screw holes located on both ends of the carrier allow the terminal assembly module to be attached to the chassis. is a diagram illustrating replacement of I O module see with terminal assembly module in chassis . In this example the obsolete I O module has been removed from chassis as illustrated in and terminal assembly module has been inserted into the vacant slot. The width of circuit board is substantially equal to the width of the I O module s circuit board. Thus the terminal assembly module can be installed by inserting the edges of circuit board into the grooved guide rails and of chassis in a similar fashion to the I O module. The terminal assembly module is considerably shorter than the I O module and therefore does not extend to the back of chassis . The backplane interface port remains vacant after installation of the terminal assembly module .

Once the terminal assembly module has been installed in the chassis the dowels of swing arms can be inserted into the hinge portions and of carrier . The swing arms with their existing I O wiring intact can then be swung back into their home position causing the elongated interface receptacle of each swing arm to electrically connect to the corresponding edge connector of terminal assembly module . is a diagram illustrating the installed terminal assembly module with both swing arms in their home positions and electrically connected to the terminal assembly module s edge connectors. omit the existing wires connected to terminals for clarity. Once in the home position each swing arm can be locked into position using screw and screw holes in the carrier .

When the elongated interface receptacle on the rear side of each swing arm is connected to the corresponding edge connector of the terminal assembly module the terminals of the swing arm and their associated I O wiring become electrically connected to the conductive strips of the edge connector. Consequently each swing arm terminal becomes electrically connected to a pin of the cable connector located in the cable receptacle area of carrier by way of the traces and conductive pads on the circuit board . Thus by replacing the obsolete I O module with terminal assembly module the I O module terminals which had previously been electrically connected to backplane interface port via the I O module circuitry instead become electrically connected to the cable connector located in the cable receptacle area of terminal assembly module . A cable with a female cable connector can then be connected to the male cable connector in the cable receptacle area thereby electrically connecting the swing arm terminals and their associated I O wires to the conductors of cable .

With the assembly terminal module in place in the chassis of the old industrial controller and the multi conductor cable plugged into the cable receptacle area of the module the cable can be routed to the replacement I O module in the new industrial controller . is a diagram illustrating the revised panel layout for panel see including the new electrical connections between the terminal assembly module and the new industrial controller . In this example all the obsolete I O modules of old industrial controller have been removed from the old chassis and replaced with terminal assembly modules. The existing wire bundles connected to the terminal swing arms on the old chassis have been left intact and remain terminated on the swing arm terminals. Cable has been plugged into the cable receptacle area of the right most terminal assembly module the cables connected to the other terminal assembly modules are omitted from for clarity . The conductors of cable have been electrically connected to the terminals of a new I O module in the new industrial controller the new I O module now serving as a replacement for the obsolete I O module that had previously resided in the slot now occupied by the terminal assembly module. Each conductor of cable which is electrically connected to one of the swing arm terminals on the old controller chassis by virtue of the terminal assembly module can be electrically connected to a corresponding terminal of the replacement I O module either directly or via a terminal block . In some scenarios the installer may choose to install fuses or relays in series with the conductors of cable .

Using this technique the existing wire bundles need not be removed or disconnected from the original I O module terminals. If no terminal block is to be used the I O devices in the field can be electrically connected to the new I O modules of new industrial controller by simply terminating the new cable conductors to their respective terminals on the new I O modules with no other wiring necessary. This termination is only required on one end of the cable since the other end plugs easily into the cable receptacle area of the terminal assembly module. If a terminal block is used the only new wiring required is the termination of the cable conductors to respective terminals of terminal block and the running of new wiring from the terminal block to the new I O module terminals.

In this example the terminal assembly module performs no signal conditioning but instead functions to pass signaling unaltered between the cable and existing I O terminals of the swing arms. As such the terminal assembly module can be used to replace both input and output modules. For example if the terminal assembly module is replacing an obsolete input module on the old controller chassis input signals from field devices will continue to be received at the old input terminals now connected to the terminal assembly module via the existing field wiring and wire bundles . However rather than being passed to the backplane of the old industrial controller to be sent to the old controller module the input signals are now routed by the terminal assembly module from the old input terminals to the conductors of cable which send the input signals to the corresponding terminals of the new input module on new industrial controller . Similarly if the terminal assembly module is replacing an obsolete output module of the old controller output signals from the corresponding replacement output module of new industrial controller e.g. discrete 24 VDC signals 4 20 ma analog signals etc. will be sent to the original output terminals on the old controller chassis via the new wiring if used cable and the traces of the terminal assembly module. Placing these output signals on the original output terminals of the old chassis ensures that the signals will be sent to the appropriate output devices via the existing wire bundles and field wiring .

The terminal assembly module illustrated in is a 16 point module for replacement of a 16 point input or output module. However terminal assembly modules of various I O point sizes can be made available to provide suitable replacements for I O modules of different point sizes.

While the terminal assembly module has been described above as passing the I O signaling between the cable and existing I O terminals unaltered and without intermediate components between the conductive strips and the conductive pads some embodiments of the terminal assembly module may include additional electrical components on the circuit board . illustrates an alternative embodiment of the terminal assembly module that designates a portion of circuit board for optional components . Optional components may comprise for example individual fuses or relays for each I O signal path. Optional components may also comprise circuitry for status indicators e.g. LEDs that indicate respective status of the I O signals. For example for terminal assembly modules that convey digital I O signals LEDs may be installed on the outward face of the terminal assembly module e.g. on or around the cable receptacle area or elsewhere on the carrier to indicate an on off status of each I O point. Accordingly circuitry may be included on the circuit board for detecting the presence of a digital signal on each trace and controlling the state of the indicators based on presence or absence of the signals. Depending on the circuit board layout it may be necessary to extend the length of circuit board in order to accommodate these additional components. In this regard the circuit board may be lengthened as needed across various embodiments limited only by the depth of the chassis in which the terminal assembly module will be installed.

Although embodiments of the terminal assembly module have been described above in the context of obsolete controllers having the example chassis and swing arm design illustrated in it is to be appreciated that the other embodiments of the terminal assembly module can be adapted for use with other controller chassis designs. For example is a front view of an example terminal assembly module designed for a controller chassis architecture in which all terminals for a given I O module reside on a single removable terminal block rather than being divided between two terminal block swing arms as in . Accordingly the cable receptacle area is located near one end of the carrier while a single edge connector for interfacing with the removable I O module terminal block takes up the remaining length of the module. In this example the I O module terminal block does not use a dowel and hinge arrangement to swing the terminals away from the module but rather is designed to be disconnected from the I O module by pulling the terminal block outwardly from module. Accordingly the carrier of this example terminal assembly module omits the hinge portions found on terminal assembly module . However if the I O module includes a doweled hinge a single hinge portion similar to hinge portion can be located on the end of the carrier opposite the cable receptacle area .

At a terminal assembly module is installed in the vacant slot previously occupied by the first I O module. The terminal assembly module can be selected to have s number of I O point terminals equal to that the I O module that previously occupied the slot. At the I O terminal block removed at step is installed with its I O wiring still connected to its terminals on the front face of the terminal assembly module. The terminal assembly module is designed to electrically connect each terminal of the I O terminal block to a pin of a male cable connector or a socket connector of a female cable connector located in a cable receptacle area on the front of the terminal assembly module.

At a multi conductor cable is plugged into the cable connector located in the cable receptacle area on the front of the terminal assembly module. Plugging the cable into this connector electrically connects each terminal of the I O terminal block to a conductor of the cable via the terminal assembly module. At at least one conductor of the multi conductor cable corresponding to a first terminal of the I O terminal block is electrically connected to a corresponding second terminal of a second I O module installed in the second industrial controller. The conductor can be connected directly to the second terminal alternatively the conductor can be landed on one or more intermediate terminal blocks and new wiring can be installed between the intermediate terminal blocks and the second I O terminal Electrically connecting the cable conductor to the second terminal of the second replacement I O module causes the second terminal to be electrically connected to the corresponding first terminal of the first I O terminal block and consequently completes the electrical path between the new I O module terminal and the field wiring already connected to the first terminal of the first I O terminal block.

At signaling is exchanged between the first terminal and its associated field device and the second terminal of the new I O module via the terminal assembly module and the multi conductor cable.

At the printed circuit board is mounted to the carrier such that the cable connector and the at least one edge connector face outward through the front of the chassis of the industrial controller and the at least one edge connector is positioned to mate with the removable I O terminal block when the carrier is mounted over the slot of the chassis.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC industrial controller or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs industrial controllers or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC industrial controllers or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as standard or safety rated I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

