---

title: Display device
abstract: To reduce power consumption of a display device. A sequence of supply of video signals to a plurality of pixels included in an active matrix display device is controlled. For example, a supply sequence is controlled so that the potentials of the video signals supplied to a plurality of pixels are in ascending order or in descending order. This enables a reduction in the amount of charge and discharge of electric charge of signal lines which supply video signals to a plurality of pixels. Consequently, power consumption of the display device can be reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09640104&OS=09640104&RS=09640104
owner: Semiconductor Energy Laboratory Co., Ltd.
number: 09640104
owner_city: Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa-ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140324
---
The present invention relates to an object a method or a manufacturing method. In addition the present invention relates to a process a machine manufacture or a composition of matter. In particular one embodiment of the present invention relates to a semiconductor device a display device a light emitting device a driving method thereof or a manufacturing method thereof. In particular one embodiment of the present invention relates to a semiconductor device a display device or a light emitting device each including an oxide semiconductor. Further the present invention relates to display devices having the semiconductor devices. Note that a semiconductor device in this specification refers to a device that operates by utilizing semiconductor characteristics.

Active matrix display devices are known. In the display device transistors are provided in a plurality of pixels arranged in matrix. In each pixel a video signal is rewritten by turning on the transistor and is held by turning off the transistor.

As the transistor a transistor containing an oxide semiconductor attracts attention. This is because the transistor can be manufactured through manufacturing steps similar to those of a transistor containing amorphous silicon and has a high mobility. Further the transistor containing an oxide semiconductor shows an extremely low off state current leakage current .

Patent Document 1 discloses a display device in which the above feature is utilized. Specifically Patent Document 1 discloses a display device which has a reduced frequency of inputting video signals by using a transistor containing an oxide semiconductor. Thus the display device has reduced power consumption.

An object of one embodiment of the present invention is to further reduce power consumption of a display device and the like. An object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a method for driving a display device in which a frequency of changing a potential of a wiring is low. An object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a novel method for driving a display device.

An object of one embodiment of the present invention is to control a sequence of supply of video signals to a plurality of pixels in an active matrix display device.

For example one embodiment of the present invention is a display device which includes a plurality of pixels and a signal line electrically connected to the plurality of pixels. A video signal is supplied to each of the plurality of pixels through the signal line according to a supply sequence. The supply sequence is determined so that potentials of video signals supplied to the plurality of pixels are in ascending order or in descending order.

One embodiment of the present invention also includes a display device which includes m n pixels arranged in m rows and n columns each of m and n is a natural number of two or more and first to n th signal lines. In the first signal line is electrically connected to the m pixels arranged in a first column. In the n th signal line is electrically connected to the m pixels arranged in an n th column. Video signals are supplied to the pixels in m rows and n columns row by row through any one of the first to n th signal lines according to a supply sequence. The supply sequence is determined so as to obtain a minimum total of total values of absolute values of changes in potentials because of sequential supply of m video signals to the first to n th signal lines.

One embodiment of the present invention also includes a display device which includes m n pixels arranged in m rows and n columns m is a natural number of four or more and n is a natural number of two or more and first to n th signal lines. The first signal line is electrically connected to the m pixels arranged in a first column. The n th signal line is electrically connected to the m pixels arranged in an n th column. Video signals are supplied to the pixels in m rows and n columns every k rows k is a natural number of two or more and m 2 or less through any one of the first to n th signal lines according to a supply sequence. The supply sequence is determined so as to obtain a minimum total of total values of absolute values of changes in potentials because of sequential supply of m video signals to the first to n th signal lines.

In a display device of one embodiment of the present invention a sequence of supply of video signals to a plurality of pixels in an active matrix display device can be controlled. For example a supply sequence is controlled so that potentials of the video signals are supplied to a plurality of pixels in ascending or descending order. Accordingly the frequency of charge and discharge of electric charges on a signal line for supplying video signals to the plurality of pixels can be low. Consequently power consumption of the display device can be low.

Embodiments of the present invention will be described below in detail. Note that the present invention is not limited to the description below and a variety of changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore the present invention is not construed as being limited to the description given below.

A display device of one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to and .

The circuit has a function of controlling the operations of the circuit and the circuit . For example the circuit is capable of supplying a clock signal a start pulse signal a synchronization signal an HSYNC signal a VSYNC signal a video signal and the like to the circuit and the circuit at a predetermined timing. The circuit functions as for example a controller.

To the circuit m wirings m is a natural number of two or more are connected. The circuit has a function of controlling the potentials of the m wirings . For example the circuit is capable of supplying a selection signal to the wiring . The circuit functions as for example a gate driver circuit or a scan line driver circuit. In the circuit structure of the circuit a decoder circuit or the like may be provided to output selection signals in a predetermined order.

The circuit has a function of controlling the potentials of n wiring n is a natural number of two or more . For example the circuit has a function of supplying video signals to the wiring . Alternatively the circuit has a function of supplying a precharge signal to the wiring . Alternatively the circuit has a function of supplying an initialization signal to the wiring . The circuit functions as for example a source driver circuit or a data line driver circuit. Alternatively the circuit functions as for example a precharge circuit.

The pixel portion includes a plurality of m n pixels arranged in matrix m rows and n columns . In the pixel portion the m wirings and the n wiring are extended. The wiring in an i th row is electrically connected to the n pixels in the i th row i is a natural number of one or more and m or less among the plurality of pixels arranged in the m rows and the n columns in the pixel portion . The wiring in a j th column j is a natural number of one or more and n or less is electrically connected to the m pixels in the j th column among the plurality of pixels arranged in the m rows and the n columns

The wiring or and the wiring can be construed as part of the pixel and as being included in the pixel . Note that it is possible that in addition to the wiring and the wiring a wiring or an electrode e.g. a capacitor wiring a common wiring or an electrode for a touch screen be provided in the pixel portion.

In the display device illustrated in moving images or still images can be displayed by rewriting video signals stored in the plurality of pixels arranged in the m rows and the n columns as appropriate. Note that a video signal is input from the circuit to the pixel through the wiring . In the pixel the video signal is rewritten in a period in which a selection signal output from the circuit is input through the wiring . That is when the wiring in a certain row is selected a video signal supplied through the wiring is input to a pixel connected to the wiring . The circuit has a function of supplying a selection signal to the m wirings in no particular order. A sequence of supply of a selection signal to the m wirings is controlled by the circuit . The circuit controls the circuit so that the video signal in the pixel is rewritten in accordance with the supply sequence.

In one example of a driving method the circuit has sequentially supplied a selection signal to the wirings in the first to the last rows in one frame period or one subframe period . That is in the example the pixels are sequentially selected from the pixel in the first row to the pixel in the last row. Then the circuit has sequentially supplied video signals to the selected pixels row by row through the wiring . After the selection of pixels in the first to the last rows and the supply of video signals to the pixels the next frame period or the next subframe period has started to sequentially supply selection signals to the wirings from the wiring in the first row.

In this case the pixels are sequentially selected from those in the first row accordingly video signals for the selected pixels are supplied from the circuit to the wiring . Therefore if the potentials of the video signals input to the adjacent pixels in the same column are greatly different the potential of the wiring is changed accordingly. Consequently power consumption due to charging and discharging the wiring is high. For example a potential A is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in a k th row a potential B higher than the potential A is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in a k 1 th row the potential A is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in a k 2 th row and the potential B is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in a k 3 th row. In this case the pixels are sequentially selected row by row. The wiring is charged when the potential A is changed to the potential B the wiring is discharged when the potential B is changed to the potential A and the wiring is charged when the potential A is changed to the potential B again. Accordingly charge and discharge of the wiring are repeated so that power is consumed by every switching between the charge and discharge.

On the other hand in one embodiment of the present invention the circuit can supply selection signals to the wirings in a predetermined order in one frame period or one subframe period . That is the pixels are not sequentially selected from those in the first row to those in the last row but selected in a predetermined order. The circuit can supply video signals for the pixels selected in a predetermined order to the pixels. After all of the pixels or the predetermined number of the pixels are selected and video signals are supplied to all of the pixels or the predetermined number of the pixels the next frame period or the next subframe period starts and then selection signals are supplied in a predetermined order. Note that when the next frame period or the next subframe period starts selection signals may be supplied in the same sequence as or in a different sequence from the sequence of supply of selection signals in the previous frame period or the previous subframe period . The sequence of supply of selection signals is determined in accordance with video signals in the frame periods or the subframe periods .

For example the potential A is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in the k th row the potential B higher than the potential A is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in the k 1 th row the potential A is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in the k 2 th row and the potential B is supplied from the wiring to the pixel in the k 3 th row. In this case the pixels are selected not in sequence row by row but in the order for realizing a small amount of change in the potential of the wiring . For example the pixel in the k th row or the k 2 th row is selected and the potential A is supplied from the wiring after that the pixel in the k 2 th row or the k th row is selected and the potential A is supplied from the wiring . In this case the potential of the wiring is not changed and thus power is not consumed. Next the pixel in the k 1 th row or the k 3 th row is selected and then the potential B is supplied from the wiring . In this case the potential of the wiring is changed and thus power is consumed. Then the pixel in the k 3 th row or the k 1 th row is selected and then the potential B is supplied from the wiring . In this case the potential of the wiring is not changed and thus power is not consumed. In this manner by sequentially selecting the pixels in the k th row or the k 2 th row the k 2 th row or the k th row the k 1 th row or the k 3 th row and the k 3 th row or the k 1 th row the amount of change in the potential of the wiring can be small so that power consumption can be low.

As another example the pixel in the k 1 th row or the k 3 th row is selected and then the potential B is supplied from the wiring . Then the pixel in the k 3 th row or the k 1 th is selected and then the potential B is supplied from the wiring . In this case the potential of the wiring is not changed and thus power is not consumed. Then the pixel in the k 2 th row or the k 4 th row is selected and then the potential A is supplied from the wiring . In this case the potential of the wiring is changed and thus power is consumed. Next the pixel in the k 4 th row or the k 2 th row is selected and then the potential A is supplied from the wiring . In this case the potential of the wiring is not changed and thus power is not consumed. In this manner by sequentially selecting the pixels in the k 1 th row or the k 3 th row the k 3 th row or the k 1 th row the k 2 th row or the k 4 th row and the k 4 th row or the k 2 th row the amount of changes the potential of the wiring can be small so that power consumption can be low.

In this manner on the basis of the potentials of video signals supplied to pixels the pixel first selected to be supplied with a video signal is determined. That is a sequence of selecting pixels is determined so that the potentials of video signals are gradually changed. For example the sequence of selecting the pixels is determined so that the potentials of the video signals are gradually increased or decreased. To carry out the sequence selection signals are input to the wirings and the video signals are input to the corresponding pixels. As a result the potential of the wiring is gradually increased or decreased so that the amount of change and the amount of change in potential become small accordingly power for charge and discharge of the wiring can be decreased.

Note that in a frame period or a subframe period pixels are selected so that the potentials of video signals are gradually changed. Further also in the next frame period or the next subframe period in the case where the pixels are selected so that the potentials of the video signals are gradually changed a period from the end of a frame period to the start of the next frame period is preferably as long as possible. For example the period from the end of a frame period to the start of the next frame period is six times or more preferably sixty times or more as long as one frame period or one subframe period that is a period from the start of the frame period or the subframe period to the end of the frame period or the subframe period . For example a period from the time of terminating the frame period to the time of starting the next frame period is 0.1 seconds or more preferably 1 second or more. Accordingly the number of inputs of the video signals is reduced so that power consumption can be reduced. During the period the video signals are held in the pixels. That is the video signals are held for a period longer than one frame period or one subframe period .

In the case where a pixel holds a video signal for a period longer than one frame period or one subframe period in this manner a transistor in the pixel is preferably a transistor having a low off state current. An example of a transistor having a low off state current is a transistor with an active layer a semiconductor film containing an oxide semiconductor. For example an oxide semiconductor is preferably a semiconductor containing In indium Ga gallium Zn zinc and O oxygen .

Note that in the case where the pixels are selected so that the potentials of the video signals are gradually changed a timing of inputting the video signals to the pixels is not in sequence row by row accordingly a timing of rewriting the video signals in the pixels are also not in sequence row by row but in a predetermined order. In general pixels hold video signals and keep displaying an image in accordance with the video signals in a period from the input of the video signals to the pixels to the rewriting of the video signals. Accordingly periods for holding the video signals are different depending on the pixels in some cases. However in the case where an interval from the end of a frame period to the start of the next frame period is long the effect can be relatively small even when the periods for holding the video signals are different depending on the pixels. Therefore the effect on display can be small. In the case where an image displayed in a frame period is the same as the image displayed in the next frame period the same image is displayed even when the periods for holding the video signals are different depending on the pixels accordingly an effect on display does not occur. In such a case a period from the end of a frame period to the start of the next frame period may be short and needs to be as long as about a normal blanking period.

Note that in the case where an image displayed in a frame period is different from an image displayed in the next frame period that is in the case where a moving image is displayed the periods for holding the video signals in the pixels are preferably equal. Therefore in such a case it is preferable that the rows be sequentially selected and the video signals be supplied on the row by row basis.

In other words in the case where a displayed image is a moving image it is preferable that the pixels be selected row by row and the video signals be sequentially input while the moving image is displayed on the other hand in the case where a displayed image is a still image it is preferable that the pixels be selected in a predetermined order and the video signals be input to realize low power consumption while the still image is displayed.

In one embodiment of the present invention in one frame period or one subframe period video signals supplied to the pixels connected to the wiring in a certain column are rearranged to generally increase or decrease the potentials of the video signals and the wirings are selected in accordance with the rearranged order. Then the video signals are supplied to the pixels connected to the wiring through the wiring in the certain column in accordance with the rearranged order. At that time compared to the case where the wirings are sequentially selected row by row and video signals are supplied to the pixels row by row the amount of change in the potential of the wiring in the certain column is small and power consumed by charge and discharge of the wiring in the certain column is low.

One example of a method for determining the supply sequence of the circuit will be described with reference to . Note that illustrates the part of the display device shown in . Specifically illustrates the pixel connected to the wiring in a certain column.

First the circuit selects one column in the matrix that is the m pixels   to  of the m n pixels see .

Next in one frame period or one subframe period the potentials of the video signals input to the m pixels   to  are identified. For example the potential of the video signal of the pixel   to the potential of the video signal of the pixel  are sequentially identified see . From change in potential supplied to the wiring according to the order it is found that the amount of change in the potential is large and a large amount of electric charge needs to be charged and discharged and accordingly power consumption is high see .

Then the plurality of video signals are rearranged so that the potentials of the video signals supplied to the plurality of pixels   to  are sorted in ascending order see or in descending order see . Note that the rearrangement operation may be performed in the circuit or in frame memory an image processing circuit or the like.

Then the circuit controls the sequence of supply of the video signals to the plurality of pixels   to  according to the order determined by the rearrangement. Specifically the circuit controls the circuit and the circuit to supply the plurality of video signals to the plurality of pixels   to  in ascending order or in descending order. In other words the circuit controls the circuit and the circuit to monotonously increase the potential of the wiring see or monotonously decrease the potential of the wiring see . That is the circuit operates to select the wirings   to  in the order determined by the rearrangement. Then the circuit operates to supply the video signals to the wiring in the order determined by the rearrangement. As a result the video signals are input to the pixels   to  in the order determined by the rearrangement. The circuit controls the circuit and the circuit to operate in the above manner.

Accordingly the amount of electric charge charged and discharged in the wiring can be small the total of absolute values of V shown in is smaller than the total of absolute values of V shown in . Consequently power consumption of the display device can be reduced.

Note that the case where the pixels in a certain column are selected and the circuits and are controlled are described with reference to . The wirings are also connected to pixels provided in a column different from the column. Accordingly even when the wiring in a certain column is selected and the sequence of selecting the wirings is determined to reduce power consumption power consumption might do not sufficiently low in the order when video signals are supplied to pixels connected to the wiring in another column Therefore for example the amount of change in potential of the wiring in each column is obtained as in and a column which has the largest amount of change is selected and the video signal supply sequence may be changed. That is in the case of sequentially selecting the pixels row by row a column which has the largest amount of change is selected and the selection sequence is determined to reduce power consumption in the column. Thus power consumption can be effectively reduced.

Alternatively the wiring in the center column in the screen may be selected to control the circuits. Alternatively the wiring which is selected may be changed every frame period every subframe period . Accordingly an appropriate wiring can be selected.

Note that in the above description for example the potentials of video signals supplied to the plurality of pixels   to  are all positive see . However one embodiment of the present invention is not limited thereto. The potential is relative and is determined with reference to a certain potential and therefore the polarity of the potential depends on the level of the reference. For example in a display device using a liquid crystal element a positive potential and a negative potential can be alternately input to pixels what is called inversion driving in the case of setting the potential of a common electrode to zero as a reference. Accordingly the present invention can be used also in the case where the potentials of the video signals supplied to the plurality of pixels   to  include positive and negative values in one frame period for example in gate line inversion driving or dotted inversion driving . Further in a display device using an organic EL element usually inversion driving is not performed. However the potentials of the video signals might include positive and negative values depending on parts the potential of which is zero also in which case the present invention can be used.

The supply sequence of the video signal in the method 1 described above is determined according to the potential of one wiring provided in a certain column. The wirings are also connected to pixels provided in a column different from the column. Accordingly even when the wiring in a column is selected and the sequence of selecting the wirings is determined to reduce power consumption power consumption might do not sufficiently low in the order when video signals are supplied to pixels connected to the wiring in another column One example of a method for determining the video signal supply sequence which is different from that described with reference to will be described with reference to . Note that illustrates the part of the display device shown in . Specifically illustrates the pixel connected to a wiring  in a certain column and the pixel connected to a wiring  in another column.

The following is an example of a method for determining the sequence of selecting the wirings in consideration of both the wirings  and  . First the sequence of selecting the wirings is determined so that power consumption in the wiring  becomes low. Next the sequence of selecting the wirings is determined so that power consumption in the wiring  becomes low. Then the two selection sequences are compared. The same parts of the selection sequences are determined to be used. In the case where the selection sequences in the wirings  and  are different as a result of the comparison calculation of power consumption is carried out assuming some selection sequences. Consequently the selection sequence realizing low power consumption is determined to be used.

Alternatively the sequence of selecting the wirings is changed depending on the situation and the total of power consumption in the wiring   the total amount of change in the potential of video signals and power consumption in the wiring   the total amount of change in the potential of video signals at that time is obtained. The wirings are selected in the order by which the total is minimized.

First the circuit selects two columns in the matrix that is the 2 m pixels   to   and   to  of the m n pixels see .

Here various methods for determining two columns of the wirings to be selected can be given. For example two columns which show the largest amount of change in the potentials of the video signals shown in are selected. Alternatively one column on the right side and one column on the left side of the display screen are selected. Alternatively columns which are selected may be changed every frame period or every subframe period .

Next in one frame period or one subframe period the potentials of the video signals input to the 2 m pixels   to   and   to   are identified. For example the potential of the video signal of the pixel   to the potential of the video signal of the pixel  are sequentially identified see and the potential of the video signal of the pixel   to the potential of the video signal of the pixel  are sequentially identified see .

The total of the absolute values of change V a in the potentials of the video signals V a in each of the plurality of a factorial of m of sequences of supply of the video signals to the plurality of pixels   to  is calculated see . The total of the absolute values of change V b in the potentials of the video signals V b in each of the plurality of a factorial of m of sequences of supply of the video signals to the plurality of pixels   to  is calculated see .

Next the sequence which minimizes the total of the former total value V a and the latter total value V b is used as the sequence for supplying the video signals to the plurality of pixels   to  and   to  . For example in an A sequence a video signal supply sequence for minimizing the former total value nor a B sequence a video signal supply sequence for minimizing the latter total value is used as a video signal supply sequence. In this case a C sequence by which the total of the former total value and the latter total value is minimized is used. Then the circuit controls the circuit and the circuit in accordance with the C sequence so that the video signals are supplied to the plurality of pixels   to  and   to  

First the sequence of selecting the wirings is determined so that power consumption in the wiring  becomes low. Next the sequence of selecting the wirings is determined so that power consumption in the wiring  becomes low. Then the two selection sequences are compared. The same parts of the selection sequences are determined to be used. Determination on different parts in the selection sequences in the wirings  and  as a result of the comparison is made separately. For example as shown in the absolute values of changes in potentials of video signals in the sequence of supply of the plurality of video signals may be summed up and the selection sequence may be determined so that power consumption becomes low.

Accordingly the amount of electric charge charged and discharged in the wirings  and  can be small. Consequently power consumption of the display device can be reduced.

Note that in the above description the potentials of video signals supplied to the plurality of pixels   to   and   to  are all positive see . However the present invention is not limited thereto. The present invention can be used in the case where the potentials of the video signals supplied to the plurality of pixels   to  and   to  include positive and negative values for example in gate line inversion driving or dotted inversion driving .

In the above description two columns are selected from the matrix see for example. However the present invention is not limited thereto. Three or more columns may be selected and the video signal supply sequence may be determined to minimize power consumption of a plurality of pixels in the columns.

A display device of one embodiment of the present invention which is different from the display device described in the above embodiment will be described with reference to .

A display device disclosed in this embodiment has a structure similar to that of the display device illustrated in . Note that the display device disclosed in this embodiment has a structure partly different from that of the display device illustrated in . Specifically the circuit illustrated in has a function of supplying selection signals to the m wirings in a predetermined order whereas the circuit disclosed in this embodiment includes a plurality of shift registers each having a function of supplying selection signals to a plurality of scan lines in sequence. In the display device disclosed in this embodiment the plurality of shift registers supply selection signals in a predetermined order.

One example of a method for determining the supply sequence by the circuit will be described with reference to . shows part of the display device disclosed in this embodiment. are graphs of the potentials V of video signals input to the plurality of pixels   to  illustrated in through the wiring . are graphs showing the amount of change in the potentials V of the video signals. Note that in video signals are divided into groups 1G to 9G . A plurality of video signals in one group is input to one of a plurality of pixels to which selection signals are supplied from one shift register.

Next in one frame period the potentials of the video signals input to the m pixels   to  are identified. For example the potential of the video signal of the pixel   to the potential of the video signal of the pixel  are sequentially identified see . The amount of the change in potential in the case where the plurality of video signals are supplied is identified according to the order see . Note that in the display device disclosed in this embodiment it is unnecessary to identify all of the video signals input to the m pixels   to  . Specifically at least the potentials of the video signals which are supplied to the groups 1G to 9G first and last need to be identified.

Then the groups 1G to 9G are rearranged to minimize change in the potential which occurs in switching the groups see . Specifically the groups 1G to 9G are rearranged so that the total of V at dotted lines in is minimized.

Accordingly the amount of electric charge charged and discharged in the wirings can be small. Consequently power consumption of the display device can be reduced.

In the above description one column is selected from the matrix see for example. However the present invention is not limited thereto. Two or more columns may be selected and the video signal supply sequence may be determined to minimize power consumption of a plurality of pixels in the columns.

In this embodiment a circuit structure that can be used for the pixel in the display device illustrated in is described with reference to . The display device of one embodiment can functions as various types of display devices when the display element in the pixel is changed.

In this specification and the like a display element a display device which is a device including a display element a light emitting element and a light emitting device which is a device including a light emitting element can employ various modes or can include various elements. Some display elements display devices light emitting elements or light emitting devices each include a display medium whose contrast luminance reflectance transmittance or the like is changed by electromagnetic action such as an electroluminescence EL element e.g. an EL element including organic and inorganic materials an organic EL element or an inorganic EL element an LED e.g. a white LED a red LED a green LED or a blue LED a transistor a transistor that emits light depending on the amount of current an electron emitter a liquid crystal element electronic ink an electrophoretic element a grating light valve GLV a plasma display panel PDP a digital micromirror device DMD a piezoelectric ceramic display or a carbon nanotube. Examples of a display device including an EL element include an EL display and the like. Examples of a display device including an electron emitter include a field emission display FED an SED type flat panel display SED surface conduction electron emitter display and the like. Examples of a display device including a liquid crystal element include liquid crystal displays e.g. a transmissive liquid crystal display a transflective liquid crystal display a reflective liquid crystal display a direct view liquid crystal display a projection liquid crystal display and the like. Examples of a display device including electronic ink or an electrophoretic element include electronic paper and the like.

An example of an EL element is an element including an anode a cathode and an EL layer interposed between the anode and the cathode. Examples of an EL layer include but are not limited to a layer utilizing light emission fluorescence from a singlet exciton a layer utilizing light emission phosphorescence from a triplet exciton a layer utilizing light emission fluorescence from a singlet exciton and light emission phosphorescence from a triplet exciton a layer including an organic material a layer including an inorganic material a layer including an organic material and an inorganic material a layer including a high molecular material a layer including a low molecular material a layer including a high molecular material and a low molecular material and the like. Note that various types of EL elements other than the above can alternatively be used.

An example of a liquid crystal element is an element that controls transmission and non transmission of light by optical modulation action of liquid crystal. The element can include a pair of electrodes and a liquid crystal layer. The optical modulation action of liquid crystal is controlled by an electric field applied to the liquid crystal including a lateral electric field a vertical electric field and a diagonal electric field . Specifically any of the following can be used for liquid crystal for example nematic liquid crystal cholesteric liquid crystal smectic liquid crystal discotic liquid crystal thermotropic liquid crystal lyotropic liquid crystal low molecular liquid crystal high molecular liquid crystal polymer dispersed liquid crystal PDLC ferroelectric liquid crystal anti ferroelectric liquid crystal main chain liquid crystal side chain high molecular liquid crystal banana shaped liquid crystal and the like. Moreover the following methods can be used for driving the liquid crystals for example a TN twisted nematic mode an STN super twisted nematic mode an IPS in plane switching mode an FFS fringe field switching mode an MVA multi domain vertical alignment mode a PVA patterned vertical alignment mode an ASV advanced super view mode an ASM axially symmetric aligned microcell mode an OCB optically compensated birefringence mode an ECB electrically controlled birefringence mode an FLC ferroelectric liquid crystal mode an AFLC anti ferroelectric liquid crystal mode a PDLC polymer dispersed liquid crystal mode a PNLC polymer network liquid crystal mode a guest host mode and a blue phase mode. Note that the present invention is not limited to the above elements and methods and various liquid crystal elements and driving methods can be used as a liquid crystal element and a driving method thereof.

For example display of electronic paper can be performed using molecules a method utilizing optical anisotropy dye molecular orientation or the like particles a method utilizing electrophoresis particle movement particle rotation phase change or the like movement of one end of a film coloring properties or phase change of molecules optical absorption by molecules or self light emission by combination of electrons and holes. Specifically examples of a display method of electronic paper include but are not limited to microcapsule electrophoresis horizontal electrophoresis vertical electrophoresis a spherical twisting ball a magnetic twisting ball a columnar twisting ball a charged toner electronic liquid powder magnetic electrophoresis a magnetic thermosensitive type electro wetting light scattering transparent opaque change a cholesteric liquid crystal and a photoconductive layer cholesteric liquid crystal bistable nematic liquid crystal ferroelectric liquid crystal a liquid crystal dispersed type with a dichroic dye a movable film coloring and decoloring properties of a leuco dye photochromism electrochromism electrodeposition and flexible organic EL. Note that various electronic paper and display methods other than the above can alternatively be used. Here with the use of microcapsule electrophoresis aggregation and precipitation of phoresis particles can be prevented. Electronic liquid powder has advantages such as high speed response high reflectivity a wide viewing angle low power consumption and memory properties.

The pixel circuit illustrated in includes a transistor a capacitor   a transistor and a light emitting element .

In this embodiment a manufacturing method of a transistor in a display device of one embodiment of the present invention will be described.

A manufacturing method of a transistor will be described with reference to and . and are cross sectional views illustrating one example of the manufacturing method of the transistor . The transistor can be provided in at least one of the circuit the circuit and the pixel illustrated in .

Components in and are described first. With reference to and a substrate a conductive film a gate electrode a first insulating film a second insulating film an oxide semiconductor film an island shaped oxide semiconductor film a conductive film a source electrode a drain electrode an insulating film an insulating film and an insulating film are described in order.

As illustrated in the conductive film serving as a wiring and an electrode in the first layer is formed over the substrate .

Note that as the conductive film a film in which a copper film is stacked over a tungsten nitride film or a single layer tungsten film can be formed.

The first insulating film is formed to cover the gate electrode . Then the second insulating film is formed over the first insulating film .

The first insulating film and the second insulating film serve as gate insulating films of the transistor.

For example a multilayer film including a silicon nitride film as the first insulating film and a silicon oxide film as the second insulating film can be used. As the second insulating film a silicon oxide nitride film can be used instead of a silicon oxide film serving. As the first insulating film a silicon nitride oxide film can be used instead of a silicon nitride film.

As the silicon oxide film a silicon oxide film with a low defect density is preferably used. Specifically a silicon oxide film whose density of a spin corresponding to a signal with a g factor of 2.001 in electron spin resonance ESR is less than or equal to 3 10spins cm preferably less than or equal to 5 10spins cmis used. As the silicon oxide film a silicon oxide film containing excess oxygen is preferably used. As the silicon nitride film a silicon nitride film from which hydrogen and ammonia are less released is used. The amount of discharge of hydrogen or ammonia may be measured by thermal desorption spectroscopy TDS .

Then as illustrated in the oxide semiconductor film is formed over the second insulating film . Here the oxide semiconductor film is formed using an In Ga Zn oxide film by a sputtering method.

As the oxide semiconductor used for the semiconductor layer of the transistor for example any of the following can be used indium oxide tin oxide zinc oxide an In Zn based oxide a Sn Zn based oxide an Al Zn based oxide a Zn Mg based oxide a Sn Mg based oxide an In Mg based oxide an In Ga based oxide an In Ga Zn based oxide also referred to as IGZO an In Al Zn based oxide an In Sn Zn based oxide a Sn Ga Zn based oxide an Al Ga Zn based oxide a Sn Al Zn based oxide an In Hf Zn based oxide an In Zr Zn based oxide an In Ti Zn based oxide an In Sc Zn based oxide an In Y Zn based oxide an In La Zn based oxide an In Ce Zn based oxide an In Pr Zn based oxide an In Nd Zn based oxide an In Sm Zn based oxide an In Eu Zn based oxide an In Gd Zn based oxide an In Tb Zn based oxide an In Dy Zn based oxide an In Ho Zn based oxide an In Er Zn based oxide an In Tm Zn based oxide an In Yb Zn based oxide an In Lu Zn based oxide an In Sn Ga Zn based oxide an In Hf Ga Zn based oxide an In Al Ga Zn based oxide an In Sn Al Zn based oxide an In Sn Hf Zn based oxide and an In Hf Al Zn based oxide.

For example an In Ga Zn based oxide deposited using an oxide with an atomic ratio where In Ga Zn 1 1 1 In Ga Zn 3 1 2 or In Ga Zn 2 1 3 or an oxide with an atomic ratio close to the above atomic ratios as a target may be used.

When the oxide semiconductor film forming the semiconductor layer contains a large amount of hydrogen the hydrogen and the oxide semiconductor are bonded to each other so that part of the hydrogen serves as a donor and causes generation of an electron which is a carrier. As a result the threshold voltage of the transistor shifts in the negative direction. Therefore it is preferable that after formation of the oxide semiconductor film dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment be performed to remove hydrogen or moisture from the oxide semiconductor film so that the oxide semiconductor film is highly purified to contain impurities as little as possible.

Note that oxygen in the oxide semiconductor film is also reduced by the dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment in some cases. Therefore it is preferable that treatment be performed so that oxygen be added to the oxide semiconductor film to fill oxygen vacancies increased by the dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment . In this specification and the like supplying oxygen to an oxide semiconductor film may be expressed as oxygen adding treatment or treatment for making the oxygen content of an oxide semiconductor film be in excess of that in the stoichiometric composition may be expressed as treatment for making an oxygen excess state.

In this manner hydrogen or moisture is removed from the oxide semiconductor film by the dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment and oxygen vacancies therein are filled by the oxygen adding treatment whereby the oxide semiconductor film can be turned into an i type intrinsic oxide semiconductor film or a substantially i type intrinsic oxide semiconductor film which is extremely close to an i type oxide semiconductor film. Note that substantially intrinsic means that the oxide semiconductor film contains extremely few close to zero carriers derived from a donor and has a carrier density of lower than or equal to 1 10 cm lower than or equal to 1 10 cm lower than or equal to 1 10 cm lower than or equal to 1 10 cm or lower than or equal to 1 10 cm.

In this manner the transistor including an i type intrinsic or substantially i type oxide semiconductor film can have extremely favorable off state current characteristics. For example the drain current at the time when the transistor including an oxide semiconductor film is in an off state can be less than or equal to 1 10A preferably less than or equal to 1 10A further preferably less than or equal to 1 10A at room temperature about 25 C. or less than or equal to 1 10A preferably less than or equal to 1 10A further preferably less than or equal to 1 10A at 85 C. Note that an off state of an n channel transistor refers to a state where the gate voltage is sufficiently lower than the threshold voltage. Specifically the transistor is in an off state when the gate voltage is lower than the threshold voltage by 1V or more 2V or more or 3V or more.

An oxide semiconductor film is classified roughly into a single crystal oxide semiconductor film and a non single crystal oxide semiconductor film. The non single crystal oxide semiconductor film includes any of a c axis aligned crystalline oxide semiconductor CAAC OS film a polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film an amorphous oxide semiconductor film and the like.

The CAAC OS film is one of oxide semiconductor films including a plurality of crystal parts and most of the crystal parts each fit inside a cube whose one side is less than 100 nm. Thus there is a case where a crystal part included in the CAAC OS film fits inside a cube whose one side is less than 10 nm less than 5 nm or less than 3 nm.

In a transmission electron microscope TEM image of the CAAC OS film a boundary between crystal parts that is a grain boundary is not clearly observed. Thus in the CAAC OS film a reduction in electron mobility due to the grain boundary is less likely to occur.

According to the TEM image of the CAAC OS film observed in a direction substantially parallel to a sample surface cross sectional TEM image metal atoms are arranged in a layered manner in the crystal parts. Each metal atom layer has a morphology reflected by a surface over which the CAAC OS film is formed hereinafter a surface over which the CAAC OS film is formed is referred to as a formation surface or a top surface of the CAAC OS film and is arranged in parallel to the formation surface or the top surface of the CAAC OS film.

On the other hand according to the TEM image of the CAAC OS film observed in a direction substantially perpendicular to the sample surface plan TEM image metal atoms are arranged in a triangular or hexagonal configuration in the crystal parts. However there is no regularity of arrangement of metal atoms between different crystal parts.

In this specification a term parallel indicates that the angle formed between two straight lines is greater than or equal to 10 and less than or equal to 10 and accordingly also includes the case where the angle is greater than or equal to 5 and less than or equal to 5 . In addition a term perpendicular indicates that the angle formed between two straight lines is greater than or equal to 80 and less than or equal to 100 and accordingly includes the case where the angle is greater than or equal to 85 and less than or equal to 95 .

In this specification trigonal and rhombohedral crystal systems are included in a hexagonal crystal system.

Note that in an electron diffraction pattern of the CAAC OS film while a cross sectional TEM image of the film is obtained spots bright spots having c axis alignment are observed.

From the results of the cross sectional TEM image and the plan TEM image alignment is found in the crystal parts in the CAAC OS film.

A CAAC OS film is subjected to structural analysis with an X ray diffraction XRD apparatus. For example when the CAAC OS film including an InGaZnOcrystal is analyzed by an out of plane method a peak appears frequently when the diffraction angle 2 is around 31 . This peak is derived from the 009 plane of the InGaZnOcrystal which indicates that crystals in the CAAC OS film have c axis alignment and that the c axes are aligned in a direction substantially perpendicular to the formation surface or the top surface of the CAAC OS film.

On the other hand when the CAAC OS film is analyzed by an in plane method in which an X ray enters a sample in a direction substantially perpendicular to the c axis a peak appears frequently when 2 is around 56 . This peak is derived from the 110 plane of the InGaZnOcrystal. Here analysis f scan is performed under conditions where the sample is rotated around a normal vector of a sample surface as an axis f axis with 2 fixed at around 56 . In the case where the sample is a single crystal oxide semiconductor film of InGaZnO six peaks appear. The six peaks are derived from crystal planes equivalent to the 110 plane. On the other hand in the case of a CAAC OS film a peak is not clearly observed even when 0 scan is performed with 28 fixed at around 56 .

According to the above results in the CAAC OS film having c axis alignment while the directions of a axes and b axes are different between crystal parts the c axes are aligned in a direction parallel to a normal vector of a formation surface or a normal vector of a top surface. Thus each metal atom layer arranged in a layered manner observed in the cross sectional TEM image corresponds to a plane parallel to the a b plane of the crystal.

Note that the crystal part is formed concurrently with deposition of the CAAC OS film or is formed through crystallization treatment such as heat treatment. As described above the c axis of the crystal is aligned in a direction parallel to a normal vector of a formation surface or a normal vector of a top surface. Thus for example in the case where a shape of the CAAC OS film is changed by etching or the like the c axis might not be necessarily parallel to a normal vector of a formation surface or a normal vector of a top surface of the CAAC OS film.

Further the degree of crystallinity in the CAAC OS film is not necessarily uniform. For example in the case where crystal growth leading to the CAAC OS film occurs from the vicinity of the top surface of the film the degree of the crystallinity in the vicinity of the top surface is higher than that in the vicinity of the formation surface in some cases. Further when an impurity is added to the CAAC OS film the crystallinity in a region to which the impurity is added is changed and the degree of crystallinity in the CAAC OS film varies depending on regions.

Note that when the CAAC OS film with an InGaZnOcrystal is analyzed by an out of plane method a peak of 2 may also be observed at around 36 in addition to the peak of 2 at around 31 . The peak of 2 at around 36 indicates that a crystal having no c axis alignment is included in part of the CAAC OS film. It is preferable that in the CAAC OS film a peak of 2 appears at around 31 and a peak of 2 do not appear at around 36 .

The CAAC OS film is an oxide semiconductor film having low impurity concentration. The impurity is an element other than the main components of the oxide semiconductor film such as hydrogen carbon silicon or a transition metal element. In particular an element that has higher bonding strength to oxygen than a metal element included in the oxide semiconductor film such as silicon disturbs the atomic arrangement of the oxide semiconductor film by depriving the oxide semiconductor film of oxygen and causes a decrease in crystallinity. Further a heavy metal such as iron or nickel argon carbon dioxide or the like has a large atomic radius molecular radius and thus disturbs the atomic arrangement of the oxide semiconductor film and causes a decrease in crystallinity when it is contained in the oxide semiconductor film. Note that the impurity contained in the oxide semiconductor film might serve as a carrier trap or a carrier generation source.

The CAAC OS film is an oxide semiconductor film having a low density of defect states. In some cases oxygen vacancies in the oxide semiconductor film serve as carrier traps or serve as carrier generation sources when hydrogen is captured therein.

The state in which impurity concentration is low and density of defect states is low the number of oxygen vacancies is small is referred to as a highly purified intrinsic or substantially highly purified intrinsic state. A highly purified intrinsic or substantially highly purified intrinsic oxide semiconductor film has few carrier generation sources and thus can have a low carrier density. Thus a transistor including the oxide semiconductor film rarely has negative threshold voltage is rarely normally on . The highly purified intrinsic or substantially highly purified intrinsic oxide semiconductor film has a low density of defect states and thus has few carrier traps. Accordingly the transistor including the oxide semiconductor film has little variation in electrical characteristics and high reliability. Electric charge trapped by the carrier traps in the oxide semiconductor film takes a long time to be released and might behave like fixed electric charge. Thus the transistor which includes the oxide semiconductor film having high impurity concentration and a high density of defect states has unstable electrical characteristics in some cases.

With the use of the CAAC OS film in a transistor variation in the electrical characteristics of the transistor due to irradiation with visible light or ultraviolet light is small.

In an image obtained with a TEM for example crystal grains can be found in the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film. In most cases the size of a crystal grain in the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film is greater than or equal to 2 nm and less than or equal to 300 nm greater than or equal to 3 nm and less than or equal to 100 nm or greater than or equal to 5 nm and less than or equal to 50 nm in an image obtained with the TEM for example. Moreover in an image obtained with the TEM a boundary between crystals can be found in the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film in some cases.

The polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film may include a plurality of crystal grains and alignment of crystals may be different in the plurality of crystal grains. A polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film is subjected to structural analysis with an XRD apparatus. For example when the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film including an InGaZnOcrystal is analyzed by an out of plane method peaks of 2 appear at around 31 36 and the like in some cases.

The polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film has high crystallinity and thus has high electron mobility in some cases. Accordingly a transistor including the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film has high field effect mobility. Note that there are cases in which an impurity is segregated at the grain boundary between the crystals in the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film. Moreover the grain boundary of the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film becomes a defect state. Since the grain boundary of the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film may serve as a carrier trap or a carrier generation source a transistor including the polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film has larger variation in electrical characteristics and lower reliability than a transistor including a CAAC OS film in some cases.

In an image obtained with the TEM crystal parts cannot be found clearly in the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor in some cases. In most cases a crystal part in the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor is greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 100 nm or greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 10 nm. A microcrystal with a size greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 10 nm or a size greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 3 nm is specifically referred to as nanocrystal nc . An oxide semiconductor film including nanocrystal is referred to as an nc OS nanocrystalline oxide semiconductor film. In an image obtained with TEM a crystal grain cannot be found clearly in the nc OS film in some cases.

In the nc OS film a microscopic region for example a region with a size greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 10 nm in particular a region with a size greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 3 nm has a periodic atomic order. Further there is no regularity of crystal orientation between different crystal parts in the nc OS film thus the orientation of the whole film is not observed. Accordingly in some cases the nc OS film cannot be distinguished from an amorphous oxide semiconductor depending on an analysis method. For example when the nc OS film is subjected to structural analysis by an out of plane method with an XRD apparatus using an X ray having a diameter larger than that of a crystal part a peak which shows a crystal plane does not appear. Further a halo pattern is shown in an electron diffraction pattern also referred to as a selected area electron diffraction area of the nc OS film obtained by using an electron beam having a diameter e.g. larger than or equal to 50 nm larger than that of a crystal part. Meanwhile spots are shown in a nanobeam electron diffraction pattern of the nc OS film obtained by using an electron beam having a probe diameter e.g. larger than or equal to 1 nm and smaller than or equal to 30 nm close to or smaller than or equal to that of a crystal part. Further in a nanobeam electron diffraction pattern of the nc OS film regions with high luminance in a circular ring pattern are shown in some cases. Also in a nanobeam electron diffraction pattern of the nc OS film a plurality of spots are shown in a ring like region in some cases.

The nc OS film is an oxide semiconductor film that has high regularity as compared to an amorphous oxide semiconductor film. Therefore the nc OS film has a lower density of defect states than an amorphous oxide semiconductor film. Note that there is no regularity of crystal orientation between different crystal parts in the nc OS film. Therefore the nc OS film has a higher density of defect states than the CAAC OS film.

Thus the nc OS film may have a higher carrier density than the CAAC OS film. The oxide semiconductor film having a high carrier density may have high electron mobility. Thus a transistor including the nc OS film may have high field effect mobility. The nc OS film has a higher defect state density than the CAAC OS film and thus may have a lot of carrier traps. Consequently a transistor including the nc OS film has larger variation in electrical characteristics and lower reliability than a transistor including the CAAC OS film. The nc OS film can be formed easily as compared to the CAAC OS film because nc OS film can be formed even when a relatively large amount of impurities are included thus depending on the purpose the nc OS film can be favorably used in some cases. Therefore a semiconductor device including the transistor including the nc OS film can be manufactured with high productivity in some cases.

The amorphous oxide semiconductor film has disordered atomic arrangement and no crystal part. For example the amorphous oxide semiconductor film does not have a specific state as in quartz.

In an image obtained with a TEM crystal parts cannot be found in the amorphous oxide semiconductor film.

When the amorphous oxide semiconductor film is subjected to structural analysis by an out of plane method with an XRD apparatus a peak which shows a crystal plane does not appear. A halo pattern is observed in an electron diffraction pattern of the amorphous oxide semiconductor film. Further a halo pattern is observed but a spot is not shown in a nanobeam electron diffraction pattern of the amorphous oxide semiconductor film.

The amorphous oxide semiconductor film contains impurities such as hydrogen at a high concentration. In addition the amorphous oxide semiconductor film has a high density of defect states.

The oxide semiconductor film having a high impurity concentration and a high density of defect states has many carrier traps or many carrier generation sources.

Accordingly the amorphous oxide semiconductor film has a much higher carrier density than the nc OS film. Therefore a transistor including the amorphous oxide semiconductor film tends to be normally on. Thus in some cases such an amorphous oxide semiconductor layer can be applied to a transistor which needs to be normally on. Since the amorphous oxide semiconductor film has a high density of defect states carrier traps might be increased. Consequently a transistor including the amorphous oxide semiconductor film has larger variation in electrical characteristics and lower reliability than a transistor including the CAAC OS film or the nc OS film.

The single crystal oxide semiconductor film has a lower impurity concentration and a lower density of defect states few oxygen vacancies . Thus the carrier density can be decreased. Accordingly a transistor including the single crystal oxide semiconductor film is unlikely to be normally on. Moreover since the single crystal oxide semiconductor film has a lower impurity concentration and a lower density of defect states carrier traps might be reduced. Thus the transistor including the single crystal oxide semiconductor film has small variation in electrical characteristics and accordingly has high reliability.

Note that when the oxide semiconductor film has few defects the density thereof is increased. When the oxide semiconductor film has high crystallinity the density thereof is increased. When the oxide semiconductor film has a lower concentration of impurities such as hydrogen the density thereof is increased. The single crystal oxide semiconductor film has a higher density than the CAAC OS film. The CAAC OS film has a higher density than the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film. The polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film has a higher density than the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film. The microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film has a higher density than the amorphous oxide semiconductor film.

Note that an oxide semiconductor film may be a stacked film including two or more kinds of an amorphous oxide semiconductor film a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film and a CAAC OS film for example.

Next as illustrated in the oxide semiconductor film is processed into the island shaped oxide semiconductor film .

Then as illustrated in the conductive film is formed. The conductive film can be formed in a manner similar to that of the conductive film . As an example a three layer structure is employed for the conductive film . Titanium films are formed as the first and third layers and an aluminum film is formed as the second layer. The titanium films and the aluminum film are formed by a sputtering method.

Next as illustrated in the conductive film is processed into the source electrode and the drain electrode .

In the case where one or both of the insulating films and is are oxide film s the oxide film in which the oxygen content is higher than that in the stoichiometric composition is preferably used. In that case oxygen can be prevented from being released from the island shaped oxide semiconductor film and the oxygen contained in an oxygen excess region can be transferred to the oxide semiconductor film to fill oxygen vacancies.

When the insulating film is an oxide film in which the oxygen content is higher than that in the stoichiometric composition the insulating film is preferably an oxide film through which oxygen can pass. Oxygen which enters the insulating film from the outside partly remains in the insulating film . Further oxygen that has been originally contained in the insulating film is released from the insulating film to the outside in some cases. Thus the insulating film is preferably an oxide insulating film having a high coefficient of diffusion of oxygen.

When a nitride insulating film is used as the insulating film an insulating film having a barrier property against nitrogen is preferably used as one or both of the insulating film and the insulating film . For example a dense oxide insulating film can have a barrier property against nitrogen. Specifically an oxide insulating film whose etching rate is less than or equal to 10 nm per minute with use of 0.5 wt fluoric acid at 25 C. is preferred.

The insulating films to can be formed by any of a variety of deposition methods such as a PECVD method and a sputtering method. It is preferable that the insulating films to be formed in succession in a vacuum. In such a case entry of impurities into the interfaces between the insulating film the insulating film and the insulating film can be inhibited. In the case where the insulating film and the insulating film are formed using the same kind of materials the interface between the insulating film and the insulating film cannot be clearly defined in some cases.

For example as the insulating films and a silicon oxide film or a silicon oxynitride film can be formed by a PECVD method under the following formation conditions. The substrate is held at a temperature higher than or equal to 180 C. and lower than or equal to 400 C. preferably higher than or equal to 200 C. and lower than or equal to 370 C. a deposition gas containing silicon and an oxidizing gas are introduced as a source gas into a treatment chamber the pressure in the treatment chamber is greater than or equal to 20 Pa and less than or equal to 250 Pa preferably greater than or equal to 40 Pa and less than or equal to 200 Pa and high frequency power is supplied to an electrode provided in the treatment chamber.

For example in the case where a silicon nitride film with a low hydrogen content is formed by a PECVD apparatus as the insulating film the insulating film can be formed under the following conditions. The substrate is held at a temperature higher than or equal to 80 C. and lower than or equal to 400 C. preferably higher than or equal to 200 C. and lower than or equal to 370 C. a source gas is introduced into the treatment chamber the pressure is greater than or equal to 100 Pa and less than or equal to 250 Pa preferably greater than or equal to 100 Pa and less than or equal to 200 Pa and high frequency power is supplied to an electrode provided in the treatment chamber.

Preferably heat treatment is performed after the insulating film is formed so that excess oxygen contained in the insulating film or the insulating film is transferred to the island shaped oxide semiconductor film to fill oxygen vacancies in the island shaped oxide semiconductor film . The heat treatment can be performed as heat treatment for dehydration or dehydrogenation of the island shaped oxide semiconductor film .

Note that this embodiment can be combined with any of the other embodiments in this specification as appropriate.

In this embodiment an example of the structure of a liquid crystal display device that can be used as one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to drawings.

The panel module includes a pixel portion including a plurality of pixels and a first driver circuit in a sealed region surrounded by a first substrate a second substrate and a sealant . The first driver circuit has a function as a scan signal line driver circuit. The panel module also includes an external connection electrode and an IC functioning as a second driver circuit in a region outside the sealed region over the first substrate . The second driver circuit has functions as a data signal line driver circuit and a video signal driver circuit. Power and signals for driving the pixel portion the first driver circuit the IC and the like can be input from an FPC electrically connected to the external connection electrode .

The first substrate and the second substrate are bonded to each other at their outer edge regions with the sealant . In the region surrounded by the first substrate the second substrate and the sealant at least the pixel portion is provided

Note that there is no particular limitation on the structures of the transistors included in the pixel portion and the first driver circuit . For example a forward staggered transistor or an inverted staggered transistor may be used. Further a top gate transistor or a bottom gate transistor may be used. As a semiconductor material used for the transistors a semiconductor material such as silicon or germanium or an oxide semiconductor containing at least one of indium gallium and zinc may be used for example.

Further there is no particular limitation on the crystallinity of a semiconductor used for the transistors and an amorphous semiconductor or a semiconductor having crystallinity a microcrystalline semiconductor a polycrystalline semiconductor a single crystal semiconductor or a semiconductor partly including crystal regions may be used. The use of a semiconductor having crystallinity is preferable because deterioration of transistor characteristics can be reduced.

A typical example of an oxide semiconductor containing at least one of indium gallium and zinc is an In Ga Zn based metal oxide. An oxide semiconductor having a wider band gap and lower carrier density than silicon is preferably used because off state leakage current can be reduced.

For the panel module a twisted nematic TN mode an in plane switching IPS mode a fringe field switching FFS mode an axially symmetric aligned micro cell ASM mode an optical compensated birefringence OCB mode a ferroelectric liquid crystal FLC mode an anti ferroelectric liquid crystal AFLC mode or the like can be used.

Alternatively a normally black panel module such as a transmissive panel module utilizing a vertical alignment VA mode may be used. The vertical alignment mode is a method of controlling alignment of liquid crystal molecules of a display portion display panel in which liquid crystal molecules are aligned perpendicularly to a panel surface when no voltage is applied. Some examples are given as the vertical alignment mode. For example a multi domain vertical alignment MVA mode a patterned vertical alignment PVA mode an Advanced Super View ASV mode and the like can be used. Moreover it is possible to use a method called domain multiplication or multi domain design in which a pixel is divided into some regions subpixels and molecules are aligned in different directions in their respective regions.

One pixel includes at least a switching transistor and may also include a storage capacitor not shown . A first electrode electrically connected to a source electrode or a drain electrode of the transistor is provided over an insulating film .

The liquid crystal element provided in the pixel includes the first electrode over the insulating film a second electrode on the second substrate and liquid crystal sandwiched between the first electrode and the second electrode .

The first electrode and the second electrode are formed using a light transmitting conductive material. As the light transmitting conductive material a conductive oxide such as indium oxide indium tin oxide indium zinc oxide zinc oxide zinc oxide to which gallium is added or graphene can be used.

A color filter and a black matrix are provided on the second substrate in at least a region overlapping with the pixel portion .

The color filter is provided in order to adjust the color of light from a light source to increase the color purity. For example in a full color panel module using a white backlight a plurality of pixels provided with color filters of different colors are used. In this case the color filters may be those of three colors of red R green G and blue B or four colors yellow Y in addition to these three colors . Further a white W pixel may be added to R G and B pixels and a Y pixel . That is color filters of four colors or five colors may be used.

The black matrix is provided between the adjacent color filters . The black matrix blocks light entering from adjacent pixels thereby preventing color mixture between the adjacent pixels. The black matrix may be provided only between adjacent pixels of different emission colors and not between pixels of the same emission color. When the color filter is provided so that its end portion overlaps with the black matrix light leakage can be reduced. The black matrix can be formed using a material that blocks light for example a metal material or a resin material including a pigment.

An overcoat is provided to cover the color filter and the black matrix . The overcoat can suppress diffusion of impurities included in the color filter and the black matrix such as a pigment into the liquid crystal . For the overcoat a light transmitting material is used and an inorganic insulating material or an organic insulating material can be used.

A spacer is provided in a region where the overcoat overlaps with the black matrix . The spacer is preferably formed using a resin material because it can be formed thick. For example the spacer can be formed using a positive or negative photosensitive resin. When a light blocking material is used for the spacer the spacer blocks light entering from adjacent pixels thereby preventing color mixture between the adjacent pixels. Although the spacer is provided on the second substrate side in this structure example the spacer may be provided on the first substrate side. Alternatively for the spacer spherical particles of silicon oxide or the like may be used and scattered in a region where the liquid crystal is provided.

An image can be displayed in such a manner that by application of voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode an electric field is generated in a direction vertical to surfaces of the electrodes and controls orientation of the liquid crystal and polarization of light from a backlight provided outside the panel module is controlled in each pixel.

An alignment film for controlling orientation of the liquid crystal may be provided on a surface in contact with the liquid crystal . A light transmitting material is used for the alignment film.

In the display device illustrated in the color filter is provided in a region overlapping with the liquid crystal element so that a full color image with higher color purity can be displayed. With the use of a plurality of light emitting diodes LEDs that emit light of different colors as a backlight a time division display method a field sequential driving method can be employed. In the case of employing a time division display method the aperture ratio of the pixel or the number of pixels per unit area can be increased because neither color filters nor subpixels from which light of red R green G or blue B for example is obtained are needed.

As the liquid crystal a thermotropic liquid crystal a low molecular weight liquid crystal a polymer liquid crystal a ferroelectric liquid crystal an anti ferroelectric liquid crystal or the like can be used. Moreover a liquid crystal exhibiting a blue phase is preferably used because an alignment film is not necessary and the viewing angle is wide. It is possible to use a polymer stabilized liquid crystal material obtained by adding a monomer and a polymerization initiator to any of the above liquid crystals and polymerizing the monomer after injection or dropping and sealing.

Although the liquid crystal element in VA mode is described in the display device illustrated in the liquid crystal element is not limited to having this structure and can employ a different mode.

The first substrate is provided with an insulating film in contact with an upper surface of the first substrate an insulating film functioning as a gate insulating film of the transistors and an insulating film covering the transistors.

The insulating film is provided in order to prevent diffusion of impurities included in the first substrate . The insulating films and which are in contact with semiconductor films of the transistors are preferably formed using a material preventing diffusion of impurities that promote degradation of the transistors. For these insulating films oxide nitride or oxynitride of a semiconductor such as silicon or a metal such as aluminum can be used for example. Alternatively a stack of such inorganic insulating materials or a stack of such an inorganic insulating material and an organic insulating material may be used. Note that the insulating films and are not necessarily provided when not needed.

An insulating film may be provided between the insulating film and the first electrode as a planarization layer that covers steps due to a transistor a wiring or the like placed below the insulating film . For such an insulating film a resin material such as polyimide or acrylic is preferably used. An inorganic insulating material may be used as long as high planarity is obtained.

With the structure illustrated in the number of photomasks necessary for forming the transistor and the first electrode of the liquid crystal element over the first substrate can be reduced. Specifically only five photomasks are necessary for the following respective steps a step of processing a gate electrode a step of processing a semiconductor film a step of processing source and drain electrodes a step of forming an opening in the insulating film and a step of processing the first electrode .

A wiring over the first substrate is provided to extend to the outside of the region sealed with the sealant and is electrically connected to the first driver circuit . Part of an end portion of the wiring is included in the external connection electrode . In this structure example the external connection electrode is formed by a stack of a conductive film used for the source and drain electrodes of the transistor and a conductive film used for the gate electrode of the transistor. The external connection electrode is preferably formed by a stack of a plurality of conductive films as described above because mechanical strength against a pressure bonding step performed on the FPC or the like can be increased.

Although not illustrated a wiring and an external connection electrode that electrically connect the IC and the pixel portion can have the same structures as the wiring and the external connection electrode .

A connection layer is provided in contact with the external connection electrode . The FPC and the external connection electrode are electrically connected to each other through the connection layer . For the connection layer a known anisotropic conductive film various kinds of anisotropic conductive paste or the like can be used.

The end portions of the wiring and the external connection electrode are preferably covered with an insulating film so that surfaces thereof are not exposed because oxidation of the surfaces and defects such as undesired short circuits can be suppressed.

This embodiment can be combined with any of the other embodiments in this specification as appropriate.

In this embodiment a structure example of a light emitting device which can be used as a display device of one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to drawings.

The light emitting device can be either a passive matrix light emitting device or an active matrix light emitting device. In this embodiment an active matrix light emitting device is described with reference to .

Note that is a top view illustrating a light emitting device and is a cross sectional view taken along chain line A A in . The active matrix light emitting device according to this embodiment includes a pixel portion provided over an element substrate a driver circuit portion a source line driver circuit and driver circuit portions gate line driver circuits and . The pixel portion the driver circuit portion and the driver circuit portions and are sealed between the element substrate and the sealing substrate by a sealant .

In addition there is provided a lead wiring over the element substrate . The lead wiring is provided for connecting an external input terminal through which a signal e.g. a video signal a clock signal a start signal and a reset signal or a potential from the outside is transmitted to the driver circuit portion and the driver circuit portions and . Here an example is described in which a flexible printed circuit FPC is provided as the external input terminal. Although only the FPC is illustrated here a printed wiring board PWB may be attached to the FPC. The light emitting device in the present specification includes in its category not only the light emitting device itself but also the light emitting device provided with the FPC or the PWB.

Next a cross sectional structure is explained with reference to . The driver circuit portion and the pixel portion are formed over the element substrate here are illustrated the driver circuit portion which is the source line driver circuit and the pixel portion .

An example is illustrated in which a CMOS circuit which is a combination of an n channel TFT and a p channel TFT is formed as the driver circuit portion . Note that a circuit included in the driver circuit portion may be formed using various CMOS circuits PMOS circuits or NMOS circuits. Although a driver integrated type in which the driver circuit is formed over the substrate is described in this embodiment the driver circuit may not necessarily be formed over the substrate and the driver circuit can be formed outside not over the substrate.

The pixel portion is formed of a plurality of pixels each of which includes a switching TFT a current control TFT and a first electrode anode which is electrically connected to a wiring a source electrode or a drain electrode of the current control TFT . Note that an insulator is formed to cover end portions of the first electrode anode . In this embodiment the insulator is formed using a positive photosensitive acrylic resin.

In addition in order to obtain favorable coverage by a film which is to be stacked over the insulator the insulator is preferably formed so as to have a curved surface with curvature at an upper edge portion or a lower edge portion. For example in the case of using a positive photosensitive acrylic resin as a material for the insulator the insulator is preferably formed so as to have a curved surface with a curvature radius 0.2 m to 3 m at the upper edge portion. Note that the insulator can be formed using either a negative photosensitive material that becomes insoluble in an etchant by light irradiation or a positive photosensitive material that becomes soluble in an etchant by light irradiation. It is possible to use without limitation to an organic compound either an organic compound or an inorganic compound such as silicon oxide or silicon oxynitride.

A light emitting element is formed by stacking an EL layer and a second electrode cathode over the first electrode anode . The EL layer includes at least the light emitting layer described in Embodiment 1. Further in the EL layer a hole injection layer a hole transport layer an electron transport layer an electron injection layer a charge generation layer and the like can be provided as appropriate in addition to the light emitting layer.

For the first electrode anode the EL layer and the second electrode cathode the materials described in Embodiment 2 can be used. Although not illustrated the second electrode cathode is electrically connected to the FPC which is the external input terminal.

In addition although the cross sectional view of illustrates only one light emitting element a plurality of light emitting elements are arranged in matrix in the pixel portion . Light emitting elements that emit light of three kinds of colors R G and B are selectively formed in the pixel portion whereby a light emitting device capable of full color display can be obtained. Alternatively a light emitting device which is capable of full color display may be manufactured by a combination with color filters.

Further the sealing substrate is attached to the element substrate with the sealant whereby a light emitting element is provided in a space surrounded by the element substrate the sealing substrate and the sealant . Note that the space may be filled with an inert gas such as nitrogen and argon or the sealant .

An epoxy based resin or glass frit is preferably used for the sealant . A material used for these is desirably a material which does not transmit moisture or oxygen as possible. As the sealing substrate a plastic substrate formed of fiber reinforced plastics FRP polyvinyl fluoride PVF polyester acrylic or the like can be used besides a glass substrate or a quartz substrate. In the case where glass frit is used as the sealant the element substrate and the sealing substrate are preferably glass substrates in terms of adhesion.

Note that this embodiment can be combined with any of the other embodiments in this specification as appropriate.

In this embodiment a structure example of a display device electronic paper which includes a display element with memory properties and which can be used as a display device of one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to drawings.

First an example of the circuit configuration of the pixel will be described with reference to . The pixel includes a transistor a display element and a capacitor . The display element is sandwiched between a common electrode and a pixel electrode also referred to as an electrode . A first terminal one of a source electrode and a drain electrode of the transistor is electrically connected to a source signal line . A second terminal the other of the source electrode and the drain electrode of the transistor is electrically connected to a pixel electrode . A gate of the transistor is electrically connected to a gate line . A first electrode of the capacitor is electrically connected to a capacitor line . A second electrode of the capacitor is electrically connected to the pixel electrode .

The capacitor line is electrically connected to the first electrodes of the capacitors in the pixels . A predetermined voltage is applied to the capacitor line . The capacitor line is also called a power supply line. The same voltage as that applied to the common electrode or a voltage with the same value as a voltage applied to the common electrode in particular is preferably applied to the capacitor line . This reduces the number of the kinds of power source voltage supplied to the display device.

The common electrode is also called an electrode a counter electrode a common electrode or a cathode. A predetermined voltage also called a common voltage is supplied to the common electrode . Note that a voltage applied to the common electrode may be varied. This reduces the amplitude voltage of an image signal leading to a reduction in power consumption. A display element having memory properties needs a high drive voltage compared to a TN liquid crystal element which is in common use for example thereby increasing a voltage applied to a transistor. The transistor may accordingly degrade. However it is possible to reduce a voltage applied to the transistor by varying a voltage applied to the common electrode and thus reducing the amplitude voltage of an image signal as described above. This can suppress the degradation of the transistor.

Note that when a voltage applied to the common electrode is varied a voltage applied to the capacitor line may be also varied at the same time. In other words the common electrode and the capacitor line may be at the same or approximately the same potential. Thus even when a voltage applied to the common electrode is varied a voltage applied to the display element can remain unchanged. As a result the gray level of the display element can be maintained preventing a decrease in display quality.

The transistor is a switch having a function of controlling an electrical continuity between the source signal line and the pixel electrode and is also called a selecting transistor. Either an n channel transistor or a p channel transistor may be used as the transistor . When an n channel transistor is used as the transistor the transistor is turned on when the gate signal is brought high thereby selecting the pixel while the transistor is turned off when the gate signal is brought low thereby deselecting the pixel . In contrast when a p channel transistor is used as the transistor the transistor is turned on when the gate signal is brought low thereby selecting the pixel while the transistor is turned off when the gate signal is brought high thereby deselecting the pixel .

Note that when an n channel transistor is used as the transistor a transistor using amorphous silicon microcrystalline silicon or an oxide semiconductor an organic transistor or the like can be used as the transistor . It is possible to reduce the off state current of the transistor by using a transistor using an oxide semiconductor in particular as the transistor thereby allowing the capacitor to be omitted or downscaled and improving the withstand voltage of the transistor . The withstand voltage of the transistor is preferably increased because a display element with memory properties such as an electrophoretic element needs a high drive voltage.

Note that the use of a transistor using amorphous silicon microcrystalline silicon or an oxide semiconductor as the transistor reduces the number of fabrication steps compared to the use of a transistor using polycrystalline silicon and therefore achieves a reduction in manufacturing cost higher yield and or higher reliability.

The capacitor has a function of keeping the potential of the pixel electrode constant and is also called a storage capacitor. Specifically the capacitor holds a potential difference between the capacitor line and the pixel electrode or charge generated by this potential difference. Thus the potential of the pixel electrode can be kept constant thereby improving display quality. Further the time during which an image can be retained can be made longer.

Note that the first electrode of the capacitor may be connected to the gate line in another row e.g. the previous row . This omits the capacitor line and improves aperture ratio.

The display element has memory properties. Examples of the display element or the driving method of the display element are the microcapsule electrophoretic method microcup electrophoretic method horizontal electrophoretic method vertical electrophoretic method twisting ball method liquid powder method electronic liquid powder registered trademark method cholesteric liquid crystal element chiral nematic liquid crystal element anti ferroelectric liquid crystal element polymer dispersed liquid crystal element charged toner electrowetting method electrochromism method and electrodeposition method.

Next an example of the cross sectional structure of the pixel that uses a display element employing a microcapsule electrophoretic method as its display element will be described with reference to . In the display element a plurality of microcapsules are placed between the common electrode and the pixel electrode . The microcapsules are fixed by a resin . The resin functions as a binder and has light transmitting properties. A space formed by the common electrode the pixel electrode and the microcapsules may be filled with a gas such as air or an inert gas. In this case a layer containing glue adhesive or the like is preferably formed on one or both of the common electrode and the pixel electrode to fix the microcapsules .

The microcapsule includes a film white particles charged either positively or negatively black particles charged with the opposite polarity to that of the white particles and dispersion liquid with light transmitting properties. The white particles the black particles and the dispersion liquid are enclosed with the film .

Note that the particles enclosed with the film may be blue green or red. Alternatively the dispersion liquid may be blue green red or the like. Alternatively both particles enclosed with the film and the dispersion liquid may be blue green red or the like. Thus color images can be displayed.

Note that three or more kinds of particles may be enclosed with the film . One kind of particles preferably has a different charge density from another.

In the above described display element the white particles and the black particles are moved by making a potential difference between the common electrode and the pixel electrode . The gray level of the display element is controlled by utilizing this movement of the particles. For example the display element has a lighter shade of gray e.g. white if the white particles move to the vicinity of the common electrode when seen from the common electrode side. In contrast the display element has a darker shade of gray e.g. black if the black particles move to the vicinity of the common electrode when seen from the common electrode side.

On the other hand when the common electrode and the pixel electrode are at the same potential or when a potential difference between the common electrode and the pixel electrode is equal or below the threshold voltage of the display element the white particles and the black particles stop moving. The gray level of the display element can be maintained by utilizing this. For example the lighter shade of gray of the display element can be maintained by stopping the movement of the white particles and the black particles while the white particles accumulate in the vicinity of the common electrode when seen from the common electrode side. In contrast the darker shade of gray of the display element can be maintained by stopping the movement of the white particles and the black particles while the black particles accumulate in the vicinity of the common electrode when seen from the common electrode side.

This embodiment can be combined with any of the other embodiments in this specification as appropriate.

In this embodiment a display module which can be formed using a display device of one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to .

In a display module in a touch panel connected to an FPC a display panel connected to an FPC a backlight unit a frame a printed board and a battery are provided between an upper cover and a lower cover .

The shapes and sizes of the upper cover and the lower cover can be changed as appropriate in accordance with the sizes of the touch panel and the display panel .

The touch panel can be a resistive touch panel or a capacitive touch panel and can be used overlapping with the display panel . A counter substrate sealing substrate of the display panel can have a touch panel function. A photosensor may be provided in each pixel of the display panel so that the touch panel can function as an optical touch panel.

The backlight unit includes a light source . The light source may be provided at an end portion of the backlight unit and a light diffusing plate may be used.

The frame protects the display panel and also functions as an electromagnetic shield for blocking electromagnetic waves generated by the operation of the printed board . The frame can function as a radiator plate.

The printed board is provided with a power supply circuit and a signal processing circuit for outputting a video signal and a clock signal. As a power source for supplying power to the power supply circuit an external commercial power source or a power source using the battery provided separately may be used. The battery can be omitted in the case of using a commercial power source.

The display module can be additionally provided with a member such as a polarizing plate a retardation plate or a prism sheet.

The electronic devices illustrated in and can have a variety of functions. For example a function of displaying a variety of data a still image a moving image a text image and the like on a display portion a touch panel function a function of displaying a calendar date time and the like a function of controlling a process with a variety of software programs a wireless communication function a function of being connected to a variety of computer networks with a wireless communication function a function of transmitting and receiving a variety of data with a wireless communication function a function of reading a program or data stored in a memory medium and displaying the program or data on a display portion and the like can be given. Further the electronic device including a plurality of display portions can have a function of displaying image data mainly on one display portion while displaying text data on another display portion a function of displaying a three dimensional image by displaying images on a plurality of display portions with a parallax taken into account or the like. Furthermore the electronic device including an image receiving portion can have a function of shooting a still image a function of taking a moving image a function of automatically or manually correcting a shot image a function of storing a shot image in a memory medium an external memory medium or a memory medium incorporated in the camera a function of displaying a shot image on the display portion or the like. Note that functions that can be provided for the electronic devices illustrated in and are not limited thereto and the electronic devices can have a variety of functions.

The electronic devices described in this embodiment each include the display portion for displaying some sort of data.

Note that although the wall and the prefabricated bath are taken as examples of the building in this embodiment one embodiment of the present invention is not limited thereto and a display device can be provided in any of a variety of buildings.

Note that although the body of the vehicle and the body of the airplane are taken as examples of the moving object one embodiment of the present invention is not limited thereto. A display device can be provided for a variety of moving objects such as a two wheel vehicle a four wheel vehicle including an automobile and a bus a train including a monorail train and a railway train and a ship.

This embodiment can be combined with any of the other embodiments in this specification as appropriate.

An example of embodiments of the present invention will be described below with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing the case where a moving image is displayed in part of the display device in and a still image is displayed in the other part of the display device. Reference numeral in indicates a region including a row having a pixel used for displaying a moving image. Reference numerals and in indicate regions not including a pixel used for displaying the moving image.

In Example the invention described above can be carried out in the regions and . This enables the power consumption of the display device to be reduced. In the region operation is performed so as to sequentially select rows one by one. That is in a row including a region for displaying the moving image video signals are input at a predetermined cycle to rewrite images. Retention periods for video signals in pixels in the frame periods or the subframe periods are equal. In the case where a display device a display device in which transistors containing an oxide semiconductor is provided in pixels similar to the display device disclosed in Patent Document 1 Japanese Published Patent Application No. 2011 141523 is used as the display device the rewriting frequency frame rate in the regions and can be reduced. Thus power consumption of the display device can be further reduced. This application is based on Japanese Patent Application serial no. 2013 069385 filed with Japan Patent Office on Mar. 28 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

