---

title: Systems and methods for secure recording in a customer center environment
abstract: Systems and methods for secure recording in a customer center environment are provided. The system receives data related to a communication at a media distribution device. A key is provided by a key server to the media distribution device to encrypt the received data. In addition, an identifier may be associated with the received data. The key and the identifier are stored in a database associated with the key server. The encrypted data is recorded the a recorder, where it is accessible to authorized users within the customer center. Upon request, the key is provided to the authorized user to decrypt the encrypted data for play back. The customer center environment may include a user interface for viewing customer contacts. The contact may be organized into folders and annotations associated with the customer contacts may be received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09014345&OS=09014345&RS=09014345
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 09014345
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140512
---
The present is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 968 232 filed Dec. 14 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 470 768 filed on May 22 2009 and entitled Systems and Methods for Recording Solutions the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The present application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 055 590 filed on May 23 2008 and entitled Systems and Methods for Recording Solutions the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In many network configurations there exists a desire to capture data from one or more computing devices within that network. More specifically many network configurations can include Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communications. In such a configuration users may communicate via a VoIP telephone a soft phone and or other communications devices. Additionally these parties may also desire the ability to record communication and other data presented to a user of a communications and or computing device for compliance and training purposes.

Customer centers may wish to comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS which is a set of requirements designed to ensure that companies that process store or transmit credit card information maintain a secure environment. In distributed networks for recording compliance may be difficult as recording data in such networks may traverse many communications links inside and outside a customer center. In addition many existing IP recording solutions can require a recording device to be located at each location to tap into the data at that location. Where the number of locations is large this becomes very expensive. Where the total number of calls to be recorded is low such a network configuration can become uneconomical as the costs of the hardware and related support are spread across only a few recordings per day.

With regard to training many customer centers deploy recorders for quality monitoring purposes and compliance purposes. Communications between callers and agents are recorded monitored and sampled. However current solutions lack configuration flexibility and intuitiveness that would benefit training programs.

Systems and methods for secure recording in a customer center environment are provided. The system receives data related to a communication at a media distribution device. A key is provided by a key server to the media distribution device to encrypt the received data. In addition an identifier may be associated with the received data. The key and the identifier are stored in a database associated with the key server. The encrypted data is recorded the recorder where it is accessible to authorized users within the customer center. Upon request the key is provided to the authorized user to decrypt the encrypted data for play back. In some implementations the data remains encrypted on the recorder and the data may be exported for viewing on a computing device having a media player application.

In some implementations systems and methods are provided for viewing customer contacts received in a customer center. Included may be communicating with a telephony component in a communications network associated with a recording system in the customer center and recording received customer communications data in the recording system. A user interface may be provided in which the customer communications data is presented and organized into folders representative of the customer contacts. Annotations associated with the customer contacts may be received.

Other systems methods features and advantages of this disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Included in this disclosure are implementations of integrated workforce optimization platforms. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems are described examples of flow diagrams and sequence diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which communications data can be recorded.

Referring now in more detail to the figures is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a system in which communication at a company e.g. a customer center can be recorded by a recorder located on a network such as an Internet Protocol IP Network connected to the company. As used herein a customer center includes but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

The embodiments of systems and methods of recording media communication via a recorder are discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 394 496 filed on Mar. 31 2006 entitled Duplicate Media Stream which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. application Ser. No. 11 394 410 filed on Mar. 31 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for endpoint recording using phones which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. application Ser. No. 11 395 350 filed on Mar. 31 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for endpoint recording using a conference bridge which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. application Ser. No. 11 395 759 filed on Mar. 31 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for endpoint recording using a media application server which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. application Ser. No. 11 529 947 filed on Sep. 29 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for endpoint recording using gateways which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and U.S. application Ser. No. 11 540 902 filed on Sep. 29 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for endpoint recording using recorders which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring back to two branch offices are depicted that may need to record communication between employees and between employees and customers. Customer communication devices connect to branch offices either via the network or via a Public Switched Telephony Network PSTN or both respectively. The customer communication devices can include but are not limited to telephones soft phones on hand held devices or Personal Computers.

Recording device s can be deployed on the network connected to the branch offices . Alternatively or additionally the recording devices can communicate with media controlling processing distributing devices in a secure encrypted environment for getting communication events and for sending instructions. For example the recording devices can communicate with telephony components at the company premises to distribute recording related transcoding for desired recording performances or based on a business policy. One advantage among others is that the recording devices can reduce their processing load by having a telephony component such as a handset store forward device soft switch gateway conference bridge and or media application server to adjust the packet size and or change the codec of a communication data before the recording devices receive the communication data. The modified communication data can increase the performance of the recording devices by reducing the processing load of the recording devices .

Embodiments of a store forward device are discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 394 408 filed on Mar. 31 2006 entitled Distributed Voice Over Internet Protocol Recording which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In operation embodiments of the store forward device can include but not limited to communication devices and media controlling processing distributing devices . Screen capture of various data related to a communication can be implemented such that an application server can contact the capture daemon and obtain screen frames associated with a communication. Similarly for voice capture many communications devices such as IP telephones generally include a small switching hub and can be wired in between a local network infrastructure and the media controlling processing distributing devices proximate to the communications devices .

With the capability of the recording devices to communicate with the media controlling processing distributing devices the recording device can request to modify data associated with communications at the customer center before receiving and recording the communications data. Alternatively or additionally if a recording device is a cluster of recording devices the recording device can communicate with the media controlling processing distributing devices to select which recording device from the cluster of recording devices to record the communications for load balancing purposes.

The media controlling processing devices control the communication between customers and employees and between employees. The media controlling processing devices can include but are not limited to voice gateways soft switches conference bridges and multi media application servers. The distributing devices can include but are not limited to routers and switches. Based on static configuration or instructions from the recording devices the media controlling processing devices can duplicate and transmit on going communication between communication devices to the recording devices via the network using its media processing features. Alternatively or additionally the media controlling processing devices can also instruct a communication device at the company premises respectively to duplicate and transmit any on going communications to the recording devices using media processing features on the communication devices .

The processor can be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in the volatile and nonvolatile memory . The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the telephony component a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80 86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation.

The volatile and nonvolatile memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. read only memory ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory can incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the volatile and nonvolatile memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may include communications software as well as an operating system . The communications software can include logic configured to adjust packet size change codec type and mix communications data for transmission over a data network as well as logic configured to otherwise facilitate a communication. As a nonlimiting example embodiments of communications software are configured to increase or decrease the packet size change codec type and mix the communications data to improve performance of the recorders and network.

Similarly with respect to operating system a nonexhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is a freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers or personal data assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. and Windows CE available from Microsoft Corporation . The operating system can be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

A system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the volatile and nonvolatile memory so as to operate properly in connection with the Operating System .

The Input Output devices not shown that can be coupled to the I O Interface s can include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone headset handset microphone earphone etc. Further the Input Output devices can also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the Input Output devices can further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for example but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc.

If the telephony component is a personal computer workstation or the like the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory can further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the Operating System and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the telephony component is activated.

When the telephony component is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the volatile and nonvolatile memory to communicate data to and from the volatile and nonvolatile memory and to generally control operations of the communications device pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part are read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

In order to record the data associated with communications at the customer center using passive tapping recorders are deployed at the media processing device or distribution devices using a SPAN feature on these devices. These tapping features are often available to the recorders that are directly connected to the media processing device or distribution devices namely to recorders deployed at each branch office. The devices using the SPAN features can include but are not limited to switch voice gateway and media application server . The SPAN devices can communicate with each recorder to determine whether the SPAN devices can be configured to adjust the packet size of the communications data. The recorder can request the SPAN devices to generate a certain packet size of the communications data to improve e.g. optimize the performance of the recorder. For example the packet size can be adjusted to be for example 20 ms 180 ms or 1 second s of audio data in a single frame which is then transmitted over the network using a real time transport protocol RTP using for example a G.711 or G.729 both are standards for audio coding. In general a packet size of approximately greater than 160 millisecond ms of communications data facilitates reducing the number of times the recorder processes a packet of communications data.

Alternatively or additionally the SPAN devices can obtain information associated with the transmission bandwidth of the network via a network server not shown . The SPAN devices can be configured to adjust the packet size of the communications data to improve for example the transmission bandwidth of the network. For example at a central office of a customer center the packet size can be increased because the transmission bandwidth of the network at the central office can sustain the increased packet size without diminishing the performance of the network. On the other hand at a branch office with typically less transmission bandwidth than the central office the packet size can be decreased to avoid diminishing the performance of the network.

Alternatively or additionally the SPAN devices can further be configured to change the codec type of the communications data to improve the performance of the recorder. The type of codec includes but is not limited to G711 format G729 format moving picture experts group audio layer 3 MP3 and Windows media audio WMA among others. Alternatively or additionally the SPAN devices can further be configured to mix at least two audio streams of the communications data into one stream and transmit the mixed audio stream to the recorder. This can increase the performance of the recorder by enabling the recorder to focus on recording the mixed audio stream rather than mixing the audio streams.

Alternatively or additionally if the SPAN devices determine that the audio streams are to be processed for speech recognition based on a business policy the SPAN devices may not mix the audio streams and transmits the two audio streams to a recorder from which the two audio streams can be retrieved by a speech recognition server.

In another scenario for example each recorder can communicate with the conference bridge to determine whether the conference bridge can be configured to adjust the packet size and or change the codec type of the communications data. In this embodiment calls from the customer phone not shown can be routed to a voice gateway which can route the calls to the soft switch . The soft switch receives incoming calls and routes the calls to the agent phones . The soft switch communicates with the conference bridge via the company network .

The soft switch is operative to send a command to the agent phones and voice gateway via the company network instructing the agent phones and voice gateway to transmit the communications data associated with the calls through the conference bridge via the company network . The recorders can communicate with the conference bridge via the IP network and the company network to determine a desired e.g. optimal packet size and codec type of the communications data based on the capabilities of the recorders .

Once the conference bridge determines the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data for the recorders the conference bridge receives the communications data from the agent phones and voice gateway adjusts the packet size and or changes the codec type according to the determined packet size and codec type respectively. Alternatively or additionally the conference bridge can adjust the packet size of the communications data to improve for example the transmission bandwidth of the networks . Alternatively or additionally the conference bridge can further be configured to mix at least two audio streams of the communications data into one stream and transmit the mixed audio stream to the recorder.

Alternatively or additionally the conference bridge can determine whether the agent phones and voice gateway can adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams. Responsive to determining that the agent phones and voice gateway have the capabilities the conference bridge can request the agent phones and voice gateway to adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams and transmit the modified communications data to the conference bridge . The conference bridge then transmits the modified communications data to the recorders to record the modified communications data in optimal fashion.

In another scenario for example each recorder can communicate with a duplicate media streaming DMS device to determine whether the DMS device can be configured to adjust the packet size and or change the codec type of the communications data. In general the DMS device can receive duplicate and transmit the communications data to the recorder without using the conference bridge . The DMS device includes but is not limited to the soft IP phone soft switch voice gateway and media application server among others.

In some implementations duplicate media streaming DMS may be used as a recording method in addition to a passive tap method. A call manager may initiate call recording at the start of calls placed to the system . The call manager may be a Cisco Unified Communications Manager Version 6.0 or higher . When the call arrives the call manager informs the soft IP phone that its internal built in bridge is to duplicate the media streams. The call manager may the initiates a link to the recorder through the services of an SIP proxy . The SIP proxy provides for the setup of SIP calls in the network . Once the SIP proxy determines the target recorder RTP streams are initiated between the soft IP phone and the recorder . The system receives tagging from the recording streams which may be enhanced through additional tags from a JTAPI Java Telephony API integration.

In a second mode of operation a recording application may request a line to be recorded. In this mode an initiating message is sent from the recording application to the call manager . As such the recording can be started at any point during the call whereas in the first mode above the call manager initiated recording occurs at the beginning of the call.

In one scenario for example each recorder can communicate with the agent phones in a spanning environment to determine whether the phones can be configured to adjust the packet size of the communications data. The recorder can request the agent phones to generate a certain packet size of the communications data to improve the performance of the recorder.

Alternatively or additionally the phones can obtain information associated with the transmission bandwidth of the network via a network server not shown . The phones can be configured to adjust the packet size of the communications data to improve the performance of the network.

Alternatively or additionally the agent phones can further be configured to change the codec type of the communications data to improve the performance of the recorder. Alternatively or additionally the agent phones can further be configured to mix at least two audio streams of the communications data into one stream and transmit the mixed audio stream to the recorder.

In general calls from a customer phone can be routed to the voice gateway which can route the calls to the soft switch . The soft switch receives incoming calls and routes the calls to the agent phones . The soft switch can duplicate and transmit the communications data associated with the calls to the recorders using the IP network . The recorders can communicate with the soft switch via the IP network and the company network to determine the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data based on the capabilities of the recorders . The recorders can use Session Initiation Protocol SIP or a computer telephony integration CTI link to communicate with the soft switch .

Once the soft switch determines the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data for the recorders the soft switch receives the communications data from the voice gateway adjusts the packet size and or changes the codec type according to the determined packet size and codec type respectively. Alternatively or additionally the soft switch can adjust the packet size of the communications data to improve for example the transmission bandwidth of the network. Alternatively or additionally the soft switch can further be configured to mix at least two audio streams of the communications data into one stream and transmit the mixed audio stream to the recorder.

Alternatively or additionally the soft switch can determine whether the voice gateway can adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams. Responsive to determining that the voice gateway has the capabilities the soft switch can request the voice gateway to adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams and transmit the modified communications data to the soft switch . The soft switch then transmits the modified communications data to the recorders to improve the performance of the recorders to record the modified communications data.

In general the media application server receives incoming media communications identifies the type of media communications and routes the media communications to media communication devices via the company network . The media application server can send a command to the media communication devices via the company network instructing the media communication devices to transmit the media communications through the media application server via the company network . The media application server duplicates and transmits the media communications to the recorders using the IP network . The recorders can communicate with the media application server via the IP network and the company network to determine the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data based on the capabilities of the recorders .

Once the media application server determines the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data for the recorders the media application server receives the communications data from the media communication devices adjusts the packet size according to the determined packet size and or changes the codec type according to the determined codec type. Alternatively or additionally the media application server can adjust the packet size of the communications data to improve for example the transmission bandwidth of the network.

Alternatively or additionally the media application server can determine whether the media communication devices can adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams. Responsive to determining that the media communication devices have the capabilities the media application server can request the media communication devices to adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams. The media communication devices then transmit the modified communications data to the media application server . The media application server then transmits the modified communications data to the recorders to improve the performance of the recorders to record the modified communications data.

The voice gateway can perform the functions of duplicating and transmitting the communications data to the recorders . For example the voice gateway receives instructions to record communications data from the soft switch . The voice gateway receives manages and routes the communications data to the agent phones via the company network . The voice gateway determines whether to record the received communications data at the agent phones according to the received instructions. If the voice gateway determines that the communications data are to be recorded the voice gateway duplicates and transmits the communications data to the recorders using the networks .

The recorders can communicate with the voice gateway via the IP network and the company network to determine the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data based on the capabilities of the recorders . Once the voice gateway determines the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data for the recorders the voice gateway receives the communications data from the agent phones adjusts the packet size according to the determined packet size and or changes the codec type according to the determined codec type.

Alternatively or additionally the voice gateway can adjust the packet size of the communications data to improve for example the transmission bandwidth of the network. Alternatively or additionally the voice gateway can determine whether the agent phones can adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams. Responsive to determining that the agent phones have the capabilities the voice gateway can request the agent phones to adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams. The agent phones then transmit the modified communications data to the voice gateway . The voice gateway then transmits the modified communications data to the recorders to improve the performance of the recorders to record the modified communications data.

Alternatively or additionally the voice gateway is operative to be configured to duplicate the communications data and transmit the duplicated communications data to a second voice gateway not shown . The second voice gateway transmits the duplicated communications data to a desired endpoint component such as the recorders using one of an endpoint component name an IP address a SIP address and a domain name system DNS name of the desired endpoint component across the company and or IP networks . The second voice gateway can modify the duplicated communications data similar to the operations of voice gateway explained above.

In another scenario for example each recorder can communicate with the capture control server to determine whether a computing device having the capabilities of capturing screen and audio of the communications data can be configured to adjust the packet size and or change the codec type of the communications data.

The media communication device can include but not limited to a computing device. The media communication devices can be coupled to the agent phone via the network . Alternatively or additionally although not shown media communication devices can be directly coupled to the agent phone without using the company network . The media communication devices is further configured to send at least a portion of communications data to the recorders . The media communication devices includes a screen capture daemon configured to facilitate capture of visual data related to the communications data a capture control daemon configured to assemble communications data into data streams and a voice capture daemon configured to facilitate capture of audio data. A capture control server communicates with the media communication devices and is configured to provide a command to the computing device. The recorders can communicate with the capture control server via the IP network and the company network to determine the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data based on the capabilities of the recorders .

Once the capture control server determines the desired packet size and codec type of the communications data for the recorders the capture control server communicates with media communication devices to determine whether the media communication devices can adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams. If the media communication devices has the capabilities the capture control server transmits a command associated with the determined packet size and codec type of the communications data. Responsive to receiving the command the media communication devices receives the captured communications data from the agent phones voice gateway and media application server adjusts the packet size according to the determined packet size and or changes the codec type according to the determined codec type.

Alternatively or additionally the media communication devices can adjust the packet size of the communications data to improve the capabilities of the network e.g. transmission bandwidth. Alternatively or additionally the media communication devices can determine whether the agent phones voice gateway and media application server can adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams.

Responsive to determining that the agent phones voice gateway and media application server have the capabilities the media communication devices can request the agent phones voice gateway and media application server to adjust the packet size change codec type and or mix media streams and transmit the modified communications data to the media communication devices . The media communication devices then captures the modified communications data and transmits the captured communications data to the recorders to improve the performance of the recorders to record the modified communications data. Alternatively or additionally the media communication devices can forward the stored communications data from one recording system to another recording system.

With additional reference to in some implementations encryption may be used on the recorders to provide for compliance and data protection. In some implementations the recorders may encrypt recorded data and protect the recorded data when in transit. Such compliance may be required in systems where e.g. credit cards are involved in transactions. The encryption may protect customer data on media archived on e.g. an archive server described below that may be off site. The encryption further secures customer data from non authorized access and interception on the network.

At data to be recorded is encrypted. This may be performed using a symmetrical key cipher using the AES256 standards. The encryption may be performed by a capture engine prior to writing the call to disk. Voice screen and associated XML files may be encrypted. The capture engine may be present in the media controlling processing distributing devices and may consolidate receiving and recording various types of communication signals into a recording system e.g. recorders . In some implementations transitional data on disk such as caches may be protected through the Windows Encrypted File System EFS that enables these areas to be encrypted at a file system level rather than encryption keys provided by the key management server .

In some implementations the capture engine includes various types of communication interfaces that facilitate receiving and recording various types of communication signals. For example the capture engine may include a media channel framework which includes an E1 T1 trunk tap interface A D extension tap interface TDM terminated interface screen capture interface voice over IP VoIP filter interface and local storage interface. The E1 T1 trunk tap interface can communicate with an AiLogics and Intel E1 T1 tap the A D extension tap interface can communicate with an AiLogics digital analog passive tap and the TDM terminated interface can communicate with an AiLogics and Intel E1 TI terminated. The screen capture interface can communicate with software running on the agent s desktop agent phones or media communication devices the IP Terminated interface can communicate with an SIP extension the VoIP filtering interface can decode with a SCCP SIP or other similar protocol and network cards not shown can receive 32 bit and 128 bit communication format

At the encrypted data is communicated to the recorder . The data is recorded and made available for examination by authorized users. In some implementations the recorders and central archive server are the trusted devices in the system . For a call for which replay has been requested that is encrypted the trusted devices may examine the call extract the Key ID and pass this to the key management server to obtain the decryption key. Once supplied the trusted devices may decrypt the call for replay. To protect recorded agent screen images when transmitted over the networks from agent desktops to recorders the captured screen images may be encrypted using standard AES256 algorithm before sending to the recorders . In addition configuration communications over the network from a configuration server may also be protected via SSL links.

At the recorders a request for a recorded encrypted call is received. The request may come in from an authorized user or the archive server . At the recorded encrypted call is communicated to the requestor. In some implementations the recorders do no decrypt the call when the call is requested by archive server or stored on local archive media. In some implementations to ensure that the data remains secure the network connections between devices may be encrypted using SSL techniques.

At the call is decrypted for replay. Because of the centralized nature of the key management server the call can be located anywhere in the system for instance on a DVD that has moved to a central site. The decryption may be performed by contacting the key management server using the ID of the key used to encrypt the recording. The ID may be used by the key management server to obtain the original key used for encryption. The play back may be performed at a replay device . In some implementations with the proper security the requestor may export the recording to non system users by converting the encrypted call into e.g. an AVI audio video interleaved media file containing all voice and data.

Referring again to the key management application in the key management server manages the keys used across the system . The key manager server securely stores generates manages and brokers access to cryptographic keys. The key manager server may include a database server that provides database services for an key manager deployment. The database server may host a datastore and keystore. The datastore is a persistent storage area for all administrative and operational information. The keystore is a database for storage of cryptographic keys. All keys are stored in encrypted form e.g. encrypted using a key encryption key KEK .

The key manager server enables the encrypted recordings to be moved archived and stored throughout the system but still be replayed by authorized users. In some implementations the recordings in transit i.e. between the recorders and the archive server may remain encrypted in their original form. Recordings for replay may be decrypted when appropriate and then protected to the point of replay using encrypted streams through the use of HTTPS. The end to end encryption system is designed to help customers meet the Payment Card Industries PCI requirements.

The archive server may provide an archive of recorded calls and screens. The archive sever may have the same local archive capabilities as the recorders . As such the archive server may write to the media supported by the recorders including DVD RAM DVD RW DAT 72 tapes Iomega Rev drives Sony AIT tape drives EMC Centera and SAN Disk.

The media controlling processing distributing devices may access this media from any archive server or recorder which will enable the calls located on the media to be replayed. Retention periods may be supported on file system storage. Calls over the retention period may be deleted from the system automatically.

With additional reference to in some implementations the system may detect tampering of files and data on the recorder . illustrates an exemplary operational flow for fingerprinting data in the system . At a checksum is added to files and data. The checksum may be added to configuration files recordings screen captures or other media types. The fingerprinting may be initially performed by the capture engine in the media controlling processing distributing devices . If the recorded data needs to be compressed e.g. for certain calls recorded by the recorder the compressor may recalculate the checksum after compression.

At the checksum is maintained in a database by the system . At the file is validated. For example if the file is manually edited this action will be noticed due to the incorrect checksum. Where manual modification is required for support purposes a command line tool may enable the file to have a new checksum determined and stored in the database. This tool may create an audit event also so that the change is noted. This fingerprint can be validated through the use of a fingerprint validation utility built into a diagnostic application. Fingerprinting the files may be performed as a two stage process. First a checksum may be calculated for of the recorded data including the textual header that contains time of recording etc. using the SHA 256 algorithm. The SHA Secure Hash Algorithm family is a set of related cryptographic hash functions. The SHA algorithm is commonly used in large variety of popular security applications and protocols. The SHA algorithms were designed by the National Security Agency NSA and published as a US government standard. The SHA 256 algorithm can be performed on files text strings as well as Hex strings. The SHA 256 produces an output of 256 bit hash value. Next the checksum may be signed by a trusted application by encrypting the checksum using the AES 256 algorithm and the checksum stored in the header of the file.

At an alarm may be raised and an audit event may be logged. This feature supports the PCI initiative and improves security of the system . It also minimizes the possibility of fraud through the manipulation of the recorders .

At the validation process may be used to validate that a call or screen has not been tampered with during replay. The validation process may be performed as follows. A user with administration rights may log into the replay device . Within an administration interface a download contact option may be provided. The administrator may enter an identifier of the call in question. The system displays the identifier of the call or a list of the stitched hidden identifiers that make that call. The administrator can then select which identifier to download and the file will be downloaded to e.g. a personal computing device.

The call and or screen can then be played through a player application. The application validated the signing and value of the checksum in the file against the data in the file or database to indicate if the file has been tampered with. In a standalone player the files may be transported and replayed anywhere e.g. such as in court and the player may replay the call and provide evidence that the call s fingerprint is correct.

At the system may then convert a call to a suitable format for replay. In some implementations the system may change the format of the call for export and not necessarily issue the original as recorded file. Access to such original calls may be restricted as a result the validation of a call may be restricted to someone with administration access to a reply server or the recorder 

In some implementations a mechanism may be provided to start and stop audio and or desktop recording based on activities occurring on the agent s desktop e.g. agent phone and or media communications device . The recording of the desktop and or audio may be stopped together or independently based on the user navigating to a particular screen or selecting a particular field for entry. Subsequently recording of the desktop and audio can resume together or independently when the person leaves the particular screen or the data of concern has been removed from the screen. This feature is useful to prevent the capture of sensitive information that may need to be entered on the screen or discussed over a call segment.

Auditing may be provided to include auditing the changes to the configuration settings on the recorder or inside an enterprise manager EM . Changes to the configuration settings on the recorder are first stored locally and at periodic intervals collected by the enterprise manager for consolidation in the database . The files in which the audit entries are stored on the recorder are pulled by EM based upon a configurable value on file size or age of the file etc. The audit changes may be viewed from the replay device .

Audit events stored on the recorder may be watermarked to prevent any tampering. A configuration change made on the recorder such as changing voice card information resetting alarm or any other configuration change may be audited. This supports PCI security requirements and provides key forensic information for fraud detection.

In some implementations alarms may be generated and an e mail alert made if communication has been lost with a recorder . This will enable an IT department to be alerted to the potential total loss of a recorder through e.g. a power failure in addition to indicating a network issue between the systems. To improve the robustness of the solution to environmental changes and unusual events within the system a number of additional alarms may be provided to check for the system potentially operating out of bounds.

An alarm may be raised when no recording or less than expected recording during a configured time period occurs. The system may provide for start and end times on a per day basis to determine when the recorder would be expected to be operational. A threshold of the minimum expected number of recordings is then set and measured over e.g. an hour.

The system may monitor CPU usage for overload. For example a 15 min period may be monitored and will alarm generated if this value is over the threshold. In further examples the system may monitor the interrupt activity over a 15 min period produce alarm if this value is over the threshold. The system may monitor internal disk queues to see if they are backing up and may alarm if this time is over a threshold. Excessive queues are an indication of an issue with the disk subsystem. The system may monitor physical memory used over a 15 min period and may alarm if this value is over the threshold.

Quality monitoring may be performed as part of a workforce optimization strategy. Performance may be measured by recording the voice of the customer the agent and or media associated with a customer contact to assess service quality and the customer experience. E learning and company specific best practices make it possible to address skill and knowledge gaps efficiently and effectively as well as quickly communicate policy or procedural changes across the center enabling the contact center to achieve success in whatever terms it chooses to define. Quality monitoring scores including insights from analytics and or analytical analysis of structured unstructured or aggregated data may be used as part of a workforce management to produce staffing models that prevent companies from unknowingly scheduling one shift with all the top performers for example. As a result workforce management may provide a higher level of consistent service across shifts.

By way of example speech analytics can be used to compare a recorded interaction to a script e.g. a script that the agent was to use during the interaction . In other words speech analytics can be used to measure how well agents adhere to scripts identify which agents are good sales people and which ones need additional training. As such speech analytics can be used to find agents who do not adhere to scripts. Yet in another example speech analytics can measure script effectiveness identify which scripts are effective and which are not and find for example the section of a script that displeases or upsets customers e.g. based on emotion detection . As another example compliance with various policies can be determined. Such may be in the case of for example the collections industry where it is a highly regulated business and agents must abide by many rules. The speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify when agents are not adhering to their scripts and guidelines. This can potentially improve collection effectiveness and reduce corporate liability and risk.

Conditions and or combinations of conditions may be established to evaluate contacts before during and after a customer interaction. This enables the capture of specific interactions that help make informed business decisions thereby improving the people processes and technologies across an enterprise. The system uses conditions business rules to trigger an action such as recording notifying and placing the contact in the correct folder s for review. In addition the entire contact may be retained based on business rule conditions that occur prior to the contact e.g. ANI DNIS agent ID etc. during the contact priority product request etc. or at the end of the interaction completed sale etc. .

In this regard one or more of the various types of recording components disclosed above in the system of may be used to facilitate speech analytics. It should be noted that speech analytics can be used in conjunction with such screen data e.g. screen data captured from an agent s media communication devices for evaluation scoring analysis adherence and compliance purposes for example. Such integrated functionality can improve the effectiveness and efficiency of for example quality assurance programs. For example the integrated function can help companies to locate appropriate calls and related screen interactions for quality monitoring and evaluation. This type of monitoring improves the effectiveness and productivity of quality assurance programs.

In accordance with implementations herein certain improvements may be made to quality monitoring of agents within a call center. An evaluation component within a quality monitoring analytics application operates to score agents in various categories such as product knowledge selling listening etc. Quality monitoring may support additional contact attribute fields that are automatically populated in an evaluation form that is associated with a contact. The additional attributes may consist of ANI DNIS and Custom Attribute Fields thereby enriching the amount of data that can be made easily available during the evaluation process.

The attributes can be added when designing the evaluation form and will be automatically populated from the contact attributes when a new evaluation is created. These attributes may remain associated with the evaluation throughout the lifecycle of the contact. Enterprise Reporting ER Data Warehouse ad hoc reporting data model Agent Evaluation Report and Agent Evaluation Batch Report now include these attributes as well.

Quality monitoring allows voice and text annotations to be added any recorded customer contact. Annotations may be defined as private which only the creator can see or hear or public which makes it accessible by anyone with the proper level of security. Once an annotation is created the entry may be added to the event list associated with that contact. When replaying a contact on the replay device an annotation may be retrieved for review by selecting it from the events list for that customer interaction. When annotations are replayed the system forwards to the point within the contact where the annotation occurred. This provides for context to the annotation in the contact.

An entire customer interaction can be reviewed as it occurred voice and data including transfers conferences including all parties on the call hold times recording activity from the CSR s perspective and consultations CSRs return to an original call after placing a customer on hold . The call activity can be visually reviewed using the energy envelope which illustrates the audio volume from both parties on the call. This can rapidly indicate to the user where there are unusual or key points in the call for instance prolonged periods of silence or music on hold. The user can then use the replay controls to move to the exact point in the call that he wishes to review and can undertake other replay functions such as start stop and pause. 

Referring to there is illustrate an example user interface in the system . In some implementations the quality monitoring analytics application may provide for classifying an evaluation by allowing a classification item to be added to the evaluation form similar to a question. As shown in a classification may be assigned a set of attributes in a user interface that can be chosen when completing the evaluation. Classification items may have no effect on scoring and multiple classifications may be added to the form. The classification may be presented show up in an agent evaluation report and agent batch evaluation report.

Referring to there is illustrate an example user interface in the system . In some implementations evaluations may be marked as being used for calibration. An evaluation marked as calibration through a selection of box will be excluded from being used in general reports for the agent or their scorecard. The field appears in the header of the evaluation form and may be off by default. If the evaluation is deemed calibration then the scorer sets this attribute. An evaluation tagged as calibration does not appear in a report run for that agent or in the agent s scorecard.

In some implementations contacts may contain recorded content of varying types e.g. synchronized voice and graphical data. However contact attributes may be stored even if the content is not saved. This creates a database of business information about an organization s customer interactions.

When searching for contacts a search dialog may support the following contact attributes Contact Folder Name Contact ID Device Name Device Extension Groups Agent Login Agent Name Agent ID Supervisor Name CTI ANI CTI ANI 2 Digits CTI Call Conference CTI Call Direction CTI DNIS CTI Number Dialed Started and Duration.

Referring to there is illustrated an exemplary operational flow for contact management in the system . At contact folders are created to enable contacts to be organized in a logical fashion. The folders allow a provider to store via business rules the recording of a contact in a folder that indicates the general nature of the contact. The following attributes may be configured to be displayed in the contact lists within the contact folders Contact ID Device Name Device Extension Agent Login primary agent Agent Name primary agent Agent ID primary agent Supervisor Name primary agent s supervisor CTI ANI CTI ANI 2 Digits CTI Call Conference CTI Call Direction CTI DNIS CTI Number Dialed Started Duration and Learning Lesson Management Learning Field. Permissions may be assigned to the contact folder. This allows access to be restricted to the contacts in that folder.

In some implementations at custom attributes within the contact folders may be defined. A custom attribute refers to a non standard contact attribute and may be a contact provided via an e mail Web chat or CRM integration. An example would be customer name and or account number.

At contacts are provided in browser user interface for viewing. illustrates an example browser based user interface for viewing contacts in the system . Users can review only those contacts within contact folders to which they have access. A playback window consists of an event viewer on the left side of the window and a contact display on the right. Double clicking on a contact in the list will open that contact in the window .

At a playback toolbar allows a user to play pause rewind and fast forward the recording as well as add annotations at any point in the record. A position indicator bar next to the toolbar shows the point reached in the recording. Image scaling may compress the desktop screen view in such a manner that the agent s entire screen fits into the playback window without having to rely on the use of scroll slide bars. As the playback window may also resized the corresponding image of the agent s desktop is also resized to maintain full visibility of the agent s desktop within the window.

Multimedia contact events including after contact wrap up may be displayed in the playback window in chronological order. A user can review the contact for any event on the list. Events include transaction type indicators from multimedia contacts that enter the contact center as well as any transaction initiated within the contact center.

The position indicator bar on the replay user interface shows the point in the recording currently displayed in the playback window . The bar shows the duration of the contact and during replay the hh mm ss of the contact are displayed as the recording progresses. In addition to showing the point reached in the recording this bar also allows the user to move to different places in the recording by skipping large amounts of time.

At annotation may be received that allows the user to add commentary or explanatory notes while reviewing the recorded contacts. At any point during playback the user can pause the recording and add annotations. When adding text or voice annotations the system creates a new item in the event viewer that is indexed to the point in the contact record where you paused the playback. An annotation can be text or voice. Annotations can be public or private. Anyone with the appropriate access and security permissions can view or listen to public annotations. Private annotations are not shared and can be accessed only by the author.

At the user can export contacts to non system users. With the proper security the system converts the content into an AVI audio video interleaved or other media file containing the voice and data. The AVI files can then be distributed as required e.g. via e mail. Once exported the AVI files can be played on any workstation with a Web browser and a media player such as QuickTime Windows Media Player RealPlayer etc. When exporting contacts the following options may be available. A first is viewing the contact. After the user convert contacts to AVI files the user can view these files in your media player by selecting the View the Contact option. The user can then create an e mail message using your standard e mail client application attach the AVI files and sent them to the desired recipient.

A second option is e mailing the contact link. This option enables the user to create an e mail that sends a hypertext link to the contact that has been converted to an AVI file. The recipient must have access to the Web server for the link to work

One should also note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

