---

title: Systems and methods for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context
abstract: Systems and methods for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context in a sensory environment are described. In one implementation, the method comprises receiving entity data and sensory environment data from a plurality of sources. Further, the method comprises analyzing the entity data to obtain categorized entity data. The categorized entity data comprises a plurality of features indicating characteristics of the entity context. Further, the method comprises analyzing the sensory environment data to obtain categorized sensory environment data. Further, the method comprises determining a correlation score for each of the plurality of features by correlating the categorized entity data and the categorized sensory environment data. Further, the method comprises recommending at least one of the plurality of features, based on the correlation score, to obfuscate the entity context in the sensory environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09490976&OS=09490976&RS=09490976
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09490976
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20141125
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Patent Application No. 4833 CHE 2014 filed Sep. 29 2014. The aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety

The present subject matter relates to recommender systems and particularly but not exclusively to systems and methods for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context.

Context may be defined as a collection of facts that are used to describe the circumstances of an entity such as a person a place a process and a thing. The context may be categorized in different groups such as an entity context a device context and an environmental context. In the entity context facts related to entity personalization may be considered to define context of an entity. Similarly facts related to technical terms may be considered to define the device context and facts related to location based amenities may be considered to define the environment context. In an example personalization features such as shape appearance color and size may describe the context for the entity say a product.

Context awareness of an entity typically means unauthorized sharing of personal information in the public domain. In an example such information is captured by multiple surveillance devices installed in various locations. Typically entities are sensed by multiple sensors such as an image based surveillance an audio surveillance and a derived surveillance. The entities are sensed by physical sensors such as close circuit television CCTV and satellite tracking in different scenarios. In an example an individual entity in the physical context i.e. a person in a street location may be detected by CCTV cameras and satellite surveillance. In another example transportation of a product entity from port to warehouses may be tracked in a supply chain process as it is exposed to multiple sensors. Therefore privacy becomes an issue due as many entities would not wish to disseminate personally identifiable information or context information to the public.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context in a sensory environment. In one example the system comprises a processor a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to receive entity data and sensory environment data from a plurality of sources. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to analyze the entity data to obtain categorized entity data. The categorized entity data comprises a plurality of features indicating characteristics of the entity context. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to analyze the sensory environment data to obtain categorized sensory environment data. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to determine a correlation score for each of the plurality of features by correlating the categorized entity data and the categorized sensory environment data. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to recommend at least one of the plurality of features based on the correlation score to obfuscate the entity context in the sensory environment.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure relates to a method for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context in a sensory environment comprises receiving entity data and sensory environment data from a plurality of sources. Further the method comprises analyzing the entity data to obtain categorized entity data. The categorized entity data comprises a plurality of features indicating characteristics of the entity context. Further the method comprises analyzing the sensory environment data to obtain categorized sensory environment data. Further the method comprises determining a correlation score for each of the plurality of features by correlating the categorized entity data and the categorized sensory environment data. Further the method comprises recommending at least one of the plurality of features based on the correlation score to obfuscate the entity context in the sensory environment.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context in a sensory environment that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising receiving entity data and sensory environment data from a plurality of sources. Further the operations comprise analyzing the entity data to obtain categorized entity data. The categorized entity data comprises a plurality of features indicating characteristics of the entity context. Further the operations comprise analyzing the sensory environment data to obtain categorized sensory environment data. Further the operations comprise determining a correlation score for each of the plurality of features by correlating the categorized entity data and the categorized sensory environment data. Further the operations comprise recommending at least one of the plurality of features based on the correlation score to obfuscate the entity context in the sensory environment.

Additional objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the following detailed description and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the present disclosure. The objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the figures the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The present subject matter discloses systems and methods for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context. The systems and methods may be implemented in a variety of computing systems. The computing systems that can implement the described method s include but are not limited to a server a desktop personal computer a notebook or a portable computer and a mainframe computer. Although the description herein is with reference to certain computing systems the systems and methods may be implemented in other computing systems albeit with a few variations as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

To make recommendation for obfuscating an entity context systems and methods of the present subject matter receive data related to an entity and a sensory environment from a plurality of sources. The data may be then analyzed to obtain categorized entity data and categorized sensory environment data. The categorized entity data and the categorized sensory environment data may be correlated to obtain a correlation score for features included in the data. Based on the correlation score the present subject matter recommends at least one of features to a user to obfuscate the entity context.

Working of the systems and methods for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context in a sensory environment is described in conjunction with . It should be noted that the description and drawings merely illustrate the principles of the present subject matter. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the present subject matter and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the present subject matter and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass equivalents thereof. While aspects of the systems and methods can be implemented in any number of different computing systems environments and or configurations the embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system architecture s .

Further as shown in the sensory environment analyzer and the obfuscation manager comprise sub modules. The sensory environment analyzer comprises a keyword generator a crawler a processing engine and an analysis module . The obfuscation manager comprises a correlation engine and a recommendation engine .

In operations to provide recommendations to a user to obfuscate an entity context the input module may receive entity data and sensory environment data from a plurality of sources. The entity data may comprise information about an entity whose context is to be obfuscated. Examples of the entity may include a person a place a process and a thing. In an example the entity data may include features such as a photo age gender built type of vehicle model and color of a vehicle appearance of an object and shape of an object. Examples of the sensory environment data may include information related to sensory environment such as intended place of visit preferred route time of visit duration of visit and point where sensors are installed and capturing region of the sensors.

The input module may use data crawlers for obtaining the entity data and the sensory environment data from the plurality of sources such as World Wide Web and data repositories. In an example the input module may instruct the user to provide the entity data and store in the storage layer for future reference. To receive the entity data from the user the input module may generate at least one input field seeking the entity data from the user. The at least one input field may be defined for features for which data is not available. The input module may then receive a user input having data about the features in the input fields. In this manner the input module receives information about the entity and aggregates the information to obtain the entity data with a 360 degree view about the entity. In another example the input module may obtain the entity data from the plurality of sources instead receiving data through a user input. Further in case any information relating to the entity is found missing or is incomplete such as gender age and built then input module may retrieve data from social media profile of a person blogs and website of manufacturer of a product. The information which is explicitly available may be directly used by the input module and rest may be extracted using image processing and text analysis.

Once the sensory environment data and the entity data are obtained the entity analyzer may retrieve the entity information from the input module and the storage layer and analyze the entity data to obtain categorized entity data. The categorized entity data comprises the entity data categorized into various features like gender ethnicity color type of vehicle age height appearance of an object shape of an object. The features may be decided based on type of the entity. For example in case of a product the features may be shape size and color of the product. Thus the categorized entity data comprises a plurality of features indicating characteristics of the entity context. Further the entity analyzer may update the features considered for an entity periodically based on user inputs.

Similarly the sensory environment analyzer may retrieve the sensory environment data from the input module and storage layer and analyze the sensory environment data to obtain categorized sensory environment data. The categorized sensory environment data provides 360 degree view of a sensory environment. To obtain the categorized sensory environment data the sensory environment analyzer comprises various sub modules.

The keyword generator may generate keywords that are used as an input query to crawl data from the World Wide Web. The keyword generator may generate the keywords based on the sensory environment data retrieved from the input module . For example if the user has specified the name of place to be visited as XYZ then the keyword generator may generate keywords such as XYZ security XYZ cameras XYZ night XYZ Video XYZ image and there combination thereof.

Then the crawler may use the keywords as an input for crawling data from the internet and to extract all the information pertaining to sensory environment. The crawled information may include text video audio and images. The crawler may store the crawled data related to the sensory environment in the storage layer for future reference.

Subsequently the processing engine may obtain the crawled data and convert it into a suitable format depending on the different types of data. In an example in case of text data the processing engine may filter the text data and clean the text data by performing various transformations such as lower case conversion uniform resource locator URL removal stop word removal stemming de duplication and special character removal. In case of audio the processing engine may covert the audio into text using speech to text convertors. Thereafter the text may undergo same processing as mentioned for the text data. In case of video the processing engine may convert the video into frames. Then the processing engine may separate the audio and may process it as mentioned above.

Upon processing the crawled data the analysis module may perform various analytics to obtain complete 360 degree information about the sensory environment. Working of sub modules of the analysis module is explained in conjunction with .

Then the sensory environment data may be sent to the event detector . The event detector may determine information about the various kinds of events based on techniques such as taxonomy and topic modelling. For example various kinds of events like sports political events music events etc. happening at a particular location may be determined by the event detector based on the data type. Further event taxonomy may be created by using publicly available data obtained from plurality of sources.

The feature detector may identify features such as gender color of clothes ethnicity hair style and vehicle type from the objects and events detected by the object detector and the event detector respectively. Thereafter the compiler may receive input from the event detector the object detector and the feature detector and compiles the input to obtain the categorized sensory environment data with a 360 degree view of the sensory environment.

Further the real time information analyzer may collect real time information about the sensory environment and provide it to the sensory environment analyzer . The sensory environment analyzer may add the real time information to the categorized sensory environment data. For example if some new information is discovered from recent data then the real time information analyzer may send the new information to the sensory environment analyzer for analysis. The real time analyzer may continuously monitor for new information related to the entity context and the sensory environment so as to keep the system updated.

Upon obtaining the categorized entity data the categorized sensory environment data the obfuscation manager may perform correlation of the categorized entity data the categorized sensory environment data and provide recommendation for obfuscating the entity context based on the correlation. The obfuscation manager comprises sub modules for performing the correlation and the recommendation.

The correlation engine may correlate the categorized entity data and the categorized sensory environment data for determining a correlation score for each of the plurality features. The correlation score indicates a degree of similarity of a feature of the entity with respect to the categorized sensory environment data. In an example the correlation engine may compile all the information received and correlate by text processing image processing and intelligent classification. Then the correlation engine may arrange the categorized sensory environment data in a specific order such as sensor locations most prominent transportation type in that location and its features most prominent entities features most prominent path considered by entities to travel to the location. Similarly the correlation engine may arrange the categorized entity data for example physical features of entity features of transportations used considering path to the reach location.

Subsequently the correlation engine may correlate both the data i.e. the categorized entity data and the sensory environment data to determine the correlation score for each of the features. In an example if the categorized sensory environment data indicates a transportation vehicle in the format of text or image and it matches with entity s transportation vehicle information present in terms of text or image about the vehicles in the categorized entity data then the correlation score is on a higher side. In another example if entity s transportation has very low matching features then the correlation score is on the lower side. In another example if there are no matching features then the correlation score is assigned a zero value for that particular feature.

The correlation engine may also retrieve information from the real time information analyzer and upgrade the correlation score accordingly. Further the correlation engine may also interact with the learning module to update the correlation score. The learning module may comprise information such as user s queried location s 360 degree view. The learning module may map such information similar and nearby popular locations. The learning module may also receive a user feedback on recommendations. The user feedback may be used in enhancing future recommendations. In an example if a location is classified similar to already visited location and user s feedback for that location has negative score least scores for some of the proposed features submitted by the recommendation engine the correlation score may be decreased by a significant factor for those features. In this manner upon receiving inputs from the entity information analyzer the sensory environment information analyzer the real time information analyzer and the learning module the correlation score for each of the features is determined.

The recommendation engine may then recommend at least one of the plurality of features from amongst the plurality of features to obfuscate the entity context. The recommendation engine makes the recommendation based on the correlation score of the feature. In an example the recommendation engine may provide the recommendations in a recommendation list. The recommendation list may comprise the features with their correlation score. In one example the recommendation engine may recommend the features with the correlation score higher than a threshold value. In an example the recommendation engine may retrieve sensor features regions with security guards and suggest alternate direction to be considered in that particular location either on the image of the sensor location or text information explaining the place where sensor or guard is located and alternate path to be considered. In another example the recommendation engine may recommend predominant features in the environment such as color and type to the user for entity s feature modification. In case where the entity is a person and predominant color is red in the sensory location then use of red color may recommended to the person and in case the entity is vehicle then red colored vehicle may be recommended by the recommendation engine. Further features with the correlation score lower than the threshold value may be recommended for modification so that the correlation score of such features is improved and above the threshold value.

The recommendations are provided to the user through the recommendation list stored in the output module . The recommendation list may comprise the plurality of features with the correlation score and recommendations to improve the correlation score. It may be noted that higher the correlation score higher is the possibility of obfuscating the entity context. Also the output module may receive the user feedback and send the user feedback to the learning module so that further recommendations can be improved.

In one example the recommendation engine may retrieve the categorized sensory environment data and make recommendation based on the categorized sensory environment data. In said example the recommendation may not take input from the entity analyzer and calculate the correlation score. This may be helpful in scenario where the entity data is not available with the system .

Further the present subject matter is described below with the help of an example where the system is implemented for providing recommendations to user to obfuscate the entity context. In an example where the entity is a person and the person is planning to visit a location the system may recommend features to the person to obfuscate his her identity in that particular location. The system may gather the details of the person i.e. the entity data such as location planning to visit starting location age gender time of visit duration of visit vehicle attire baggage and route planning to take. Once all the information about the entity is available with the system the system may retrieve information related to the sensory environment of the location from various data sources such as internet data repositories and internal databases having details of previous recommendations related to same location. The system may then analyze the sensory environment data and the entity data and categorize the sensory environment data and the entity data so that a 360 degree view of the data is obtained. The 360 degree view of the sensory environment data may have information such as age of people clothes color of clothes types of vehicle most crowded timelines sensor locations sensor features and route information. Subsequently the system may correlate the entity data and the sensory environment data to obtain the correlation score for each of the features. The features of the entity with the high correlation score are those features which have high degree of similarity with features of the sensory environment. Thereafter based on the correlation score the system may provide the recommendation list comprising recommendation for the person to obfuscate his her identity in the location. The system may also monitor real time data and update the correlation score accordingly so that recommendations provided are accurate. The recommendations may be further improved by the system by considering the user feedback on the previous recommendations. In said example the system may recommend features such as route to consider transportations type of clothes color and time of visit to the person so that he she can take appropriate measure before going to the location and obfuscate the entity context i.e. identity of the person.

Thus the system of present subject matter enables obfuscation of the entity context by providing recommendations to the user. In the present subject matter the recommended features are generated considering the original features of entities so that minimum modifications are required. Further the system monitors real time information so that recommendations are improvised with respect to the recent events.

The system may be used in various situations such as obfuscating individual s identity obfuscating products while shipping and transportation obfuscation. Obfuscation of individual s identity may be needed in situations where a celebrity wants to obfuscate his her indemnity in a public place. Obfuscating products while shipping may be needed to keep products secret from competitors such a product to be launched soon and design of a product. The transport obfuscation may be needed where transport vehicles are used such as a bank van transferring money.

The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The method may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communication network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method or alternative methods. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

With reference to method as depicted in as shown in block entity data and sensory environment data are received from a plurality of sources. The sensory data may comprise information about the entity. In an example when some information about the entity is not available the input module may generate at least one input field seeking the entity data from a user. Then the user may provide a user input in the at least one input field to complete to the missing information about the entity. Further the input module may receive the sensory environment information from sources such as internet and data repositories. The sensory environment information comprises information related to the sensory environment such as location sensor features place where sensors are installed and capturing region of the sensors.

At block the entity data is analyzed to obtain categorized entity data. The categorized entity data may comprise a plurality of features indicating characteristics of an entity context. In an example the entity analyzer may use various processing techniques on the entity data to obtain the categorized entity data. The features present in the categorized entity data may describe the entity context of the entity.

At block the sensory environment data is analyzed to obtain categorized sensory environment data. In an example the sensory environment analyzer may analyze the sensory environment data to obtain the categorized sensory environment data providing a 360 degree view of the sensory environment. Further the real time information analyzer may keep looking for new information related to the sensory environment so that the categorized sensory environment data is always updated. In case the real time information analyzer identifies the new information about the sensory environment after the recommendations the recommendation engine may consider the new information and make new recommendations to the user.

At block a correlation score for each of the plurality of features is determined by correlating the categorized entity data and the categorized sensory environment data. In an example the correlation engine may correlate the information received from the entity analyzer the sensory environment analyzer the real time information analyzer and the learning module to obtain the correlation score for each of the features. In an example the correlation engine may obtain the categorized sensory environment data and recommend features to the user by analyzing the categorized sensory environment data without determining correlation score and considering the categorized entity data.

At block at least one of the plurality of features is recommended based on the correlation score to obfuscate the entity context in the sensory environment. In an example the recommendation engine may provide a recommendation list to the user having at least one the plurality of features with the correlation score. The user may obfuscate the entity context based on the recommendations provided to the user. Also the user may provide a user feedback on recommendations. The output module may obtain the user feedback and send it to the learning module so that further recommendations for obfuscating the entity context can be improved.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described systems and methods for providing recommendations to obfuscate an entity context in a sensory environment. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

