---

title: Multi-nozzle cam driven sprinkler head
abstract: A sprinkler. A sprinkler nozzle assembly is coupled to a base for rotating movement. A stationary cam with cam surface engages a cam follower which open and close valves to regulate water flow as selected angles of rotation. In an embodiment, a pop-up sprinkler is provided, and the moving components are part of the riser. A turbine drive mechanism is coupled to an upper housing on which a plurality of sprinkler nozzle assemblies are affixed. The drive mechanism includes water driven impeller and a gear train adapted for operatively driving the upper housing, and associated sprinkler nozzle assemblies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09227207&OS=09227207&RS=09227207
owner: 
number: 09227207
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140312
---
This application claims priority from prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 799 760 filed Mar. 15 2013 entitled MULTI NOZZLE CAM DRIVEN SPRINKLER HEAD the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety including the specification drawing and claims by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This invention relates to lawn sprinklers and more particularly to lawn sprinklers adapted for use in watering a water receiving area having a non uniform shape.

Water sprinklers of various designs have been utilized for many years. However many of the currently utilized sprinklers are designed to provide water over a circular area that is of relatively uniform diameter. A few designs have the ability to water over selected receiving areas that are shaped as relatively circular arc portions. One of my prior patents namely U.S. Pat. No. 7 988 071 issued Aug. 2 2011 for a LAWN SPRINKLER the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference provides designs for attacking some aspects of the problem of watering irregularly shaped parcels.

However significant amounts of water are wasted due to the inability of the general public to obtain and install lawn sprinklers that are capable of watering non uniform or irregularly shaped areas specifically and exclusively where water is needed rather than applying a water stream relatively indiscriminately over an area that may include features where water is not required such as driveways or sidewalks.

Since water is increasingly scarce and or increasingly costly in many locales whether as a result of increased fees from the utility provider or as a result of energy costs for pumping or otherwise there remains a need for a lawn sprinkler apparatus that can reliably provide the needed water over the required area while minimizing or eliminating the application of water to adjacent areas which do not require the application of water.

Thus there remains an unmet need for an improved lawn sprinkler with suitable features and mechanical workings that would direct available water to those areas needing water while avoiding application of water to those areas which do not require watering.

A lawn sprinkler has now been developed with water distribution nozzles that are provided with water via valves that are opened and closed according to a predefined pattern. By using such a lawn sprinkler apparatus the volume of water actually applied to a particular portion of a lawn is appropriate for the size and shape of the area that is watered even when the water is applied over an area having a non circular shape or irregular geometric pattern.

In one embodiment the sprinkler apparatus includes a base configured to confiningly receive a pressurized water flow and a sprinkler nozzle assembly coupled to the base for rotating movement with respect to the base. In an embodiment the sprinkler nozzle assembly may be configured as a riser in a pop up sprinkler responsive to a pressurized water flow to pop up into an operating position for discharge of water from a nozzle. However the sprinkler may be utilized with or without a base for pop up operation. A turbine drive mechanism is coupled to an upper housing on which a plurality of sprinkler nozzle assemblies are affixed. The drive mechanism includes water driven impeller and a gear train adapted for operatively driving the upper housing and associated sprinkler nozzle assemblies in rotary movement.

One or more cam operated valves V and in various embodiments a plurality of cam operated water flow valves V V V etc. are provided to regulate the water flow outward from the nozzle in a predetermined pattern consistent with the size and shape of the area to be watered. A vertically oriented cam shaft includes cam surfaces which in an embodiment may be provided by cam elements complementary to adjacently mounted water flow valves. In an embodiment water flow valves are provided in a normally open position wherein a spring urges the valve toward an open position. Thus the cam surface urges the valve toward a closed position by compression of the spring until the valve is closed.

A water outlet nozzle is provided to deliver water in a given direction generally in a preselected area pattern. In an embodiment the drive mechanism may be operative to open and close the water flow valves in response to the cam mechanism so that the water outlet nozzles only discharge water in the desired amounts in a selected direction.

The foregoing briefly describes a lawn sprinkler apparatus having valves to regulate the flow of water to provide a substantially uniform quantity of water per unit area of lawn even in non circular or irregular geometric shapes. However the developments described herein will be more readily understood upon consideration of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with careful examination of the accompanying figures of the drawing.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual apparatus that may be constructed to provide various embodiments for covers for rotating sprinklers or to various configurations for operation thereof or to methods for use thereof. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the components of an embodiment for useful multi cam sprinklers as taught herein. However various other elements for such apparatus or for installation and use of the same may be utilized in order to provide useful embodiments for covers for sprinklers particularly for use on irregularly shaped water receiving parcels according to the concepts disclosed herein.

In the various figures of the drawing like features may be illustrated with the same reference numerals without further mention thereof. Further the foregoing figures are merely exemplary and may contain various elements that might be present or omitted from actual implementations of various embodiments depending upon the circumstances. The features as illustrated provide an exemplary embodiment for a sprinkler that may control the amount of water provided to specific locations of a parcel of land and to water volume applied along a radial length at the same time through selection of nozzle characteristics and to regulation of the amount of water provided to such nozzles through a cam controlled valve. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the various embodiments and aspects of the invention. However various other elements of a lawn sprinkler with valve and sprinkler assembly designs or gear train designs especially as applied for different variations of the functional components illustrated as well as different embodiments such as a shape of components or final design of various elements may be utilized in order to provide a useful reliable lawn sprinkler design constructed according to the designs described herein that may be useful for minimizing waste of water and in normalizing the application rate of water on an irrigation volume per square foot or similar basis over areas of a lawn particularly for irregular or other non circular lawn shapes.

Attention is directed to of the drawing which provides a perspective view of an exemplary sprinkler for watering a non circular irregular shaped lawn such as lawns illustrated in . In and it can be seen that sprinkler is set up to water non circular parcel of land . In such parcel it can be seen that when sprinkler is watering along relatively short radials R R and R the amount of water is needed along such radial lengths per unit of time is not as much as would be required for the same unit of time along the longer radial lengths R R and Ras shown in . To address this problem we have developed a novel sprinkler in which a base is provided having an upper housing rotatably attached thereto. In an embodiment the upper housing may be set up mechanically to rotate in a selected direction as indicated by reference arrow in . As upper housing rotates the water flow rate from nozzles N see increases or decreases or says constant or stays off as required in order to regulate limit or prevent water from being delivered nozzles N. For the watering of relatively short radials R R and Ras shown in the amount of water provided through nozzles N may be reduced during the time that the group of nozzles N rotates through such angular direction s . For the watering of relatively long radial lengths R R and R the water flow rate increases in order to provide more water to the nozzles N for watering along the relatively longer radials R R and R. Novel construction of sprinkler which enables such metered delivery of water to a parcel of land will be further described below.

Attention is directed to which shows a vertical perspective view for an embodiment of sprinkler . The sprinkler includes a base which relative to upper housing is stationary.

Note however as mentioned below and shown in an apparatus such as sprinkler may be fitted with an outer housing surrounding upper housing and slidingly secured in a pressurizable receiver shown in broken lines in that is sized and shaped to receive at least a pop up base therein to vertically house and slidingly cradle the pop up base . In such a pop up configuration upon pressurization by water the base rises vertically in the direction of reference arrows from the pressurizable receiver to provide a pop up sprinkler . Seals such as o rings and end stops and or other working elements may be provided in a conventional manner for pop up sprinklers as known to those of skill in the art and need not be further addressed herein. As seen in and more clearly indicated in in an embodiment the outer housing H may be cylindrical in shape. In an embodiment the outer housing H has an outer diameter OD approximately corresponding to the spacing between distal ends of nozzles N in first group A and second group B of nozzles N which are oriented at one hundred eighty degrees 180 from each other.

Returning now to a rotatable upper housing is mounted on sprinkler base . At least one sprinkler nozzle assembly Ais secured to and rotatable with the upper housing . In most embodiments a plurality of nozzle assemblies such as nozzle assemblies A A A and Aas shown in will be provided. In various embodiments nozzle assemblies may be provided in groups. For example nozzle assemblies A A A and Aconstitute a first or A group of nozzle assemblies. In an embodiment a group may arranged in a vertically aligned fashion as shown in where A A A and Aare located one above the other along vertical centerline C. In various embodiments pressurized water may enter at the bottom inlet as indicated by reference arrow W.

Attention is directed to which shows a vertical cross sectional view of an embodiment for a sprinkler . Pressurized water W is received at inlet of lower housing of base . The lower housing has an inner sidewall that contains pressurized water W. The base has an inlet turbine operably fixed therein. A gear train having an output gear responsive to the inlet turbine is provided. In an embodiment output gear is a pinion gear that drives annular gear in upper housing . In an embodiment portions of the gear train may be sheltered from flow of water W by a gear housing . A mount is supported by the base and has a receiver therein sized and shaped for receiving a stationary cam shaft . A stationary cam shaft is affixed to the mount and extends upwardly. As visible in the mount may include a mounting key which prevents the cam shaft from turning. As visible in the cross sectional view of cam shaft shown in in an embodiment the cam shaft may be provided with an inwardly extending keyway slot which is defined by a vertically extending keyway wall seen in .

The cam shaft has associated therewith at least one cam surface S. In various embodiments a plurality of cam surfaces S S S S etc. see the seven cams in for example which include S S and S and the like are provided by cam elements E E E E and the like respectively. Each of cam elements E E E and F has a respective cam element thickness T. In various embodiments the cam elements E E E and E may be detachably affixed to the cam shaft . In an embodiment as seen in and a plurality of retaining clamps may be provided. In such an embodiment pairs of retention grooves are provided spaced apart a distance G. And pairs of retaining clamps are provided. The pairs of retention grooves are spaced apart a distance G which is approximately equal to said thickness T of cam elements E E E E and the like . In an embodiment one retaining clamp in each pair of retaining clamps is secured to the cam shaft below a cam element E E E E and the like and one retaining clamp in each pair of retaining clamps is secured to the cam shaft above a cam element EE E E and the like . In this manner each of the cam elements E F E F and the like is secured at a selected vertical location along the cam shaft .

In various embodiments the cam elements E F E E and the like each has an inner sidewall . In various embodiments the inner sidewall may have a key structure therein. The key structure is sized and shaped for interlocking sliding engagement with the keyway slot in cam shaft . Thus the key structure and the keyway slot cooperate to prevent the cam elements E E E F and the like from rotary movement. As further described elsewhere herein each cam element E E E E and the like is sized and shaped to provide cam surfaces S S S S and the like which interact with corresponding cam followers F F F F and the like for movement of the respective cam followers by the associated cam elements to correlate water delivery quantity through an associated sprinkler nozzle assembly A A A A and the like for watering a surface of a land parcel having a selected size and shape.

The upper housing is rotatably coupled to the sprinkler base . the upper housing is driven by the output gear which may be configured as a pinion gear to drive an annular gear inside the lower end of upper housing . The upper housing is configured for receiving water W from the base . The upper housing is provided with at least one sprinkler nozzle assembly A which is secured to housing and rotatable therewith. In most embodiments a plurality of nozzle assemblies A will be provided in groups of nozzle assemblies A B C D etc wherein each group will have multiple nozzles therein. For example a group A may have nozzles numbered from Ato A with X being a positive integer. Likewise a group B of nozzle assemblies may be provided in a group B numbered from Bto B where X is a positive integer. In an embodiment as noted in numbering of X in groups may be provided in even numbers only or in odd numbers only as similar number for cam elements may proceed sequentially with both even and odd integers as such cam elements may be configured to a single nozzle N on a side of the upper housing or multiple nozzles N on the upper housing . At least one sprinkler nozzle assembly A is secured to and rotatable with the upper housing .

As seen in and in an embodiment a sprinkler nozzle assembly A etc may include a corresponding nozzle N and a spring loaded valve V which includes a spring which biases a cam follower F similar numbering and function in other sprinkler nozzle assemblies need not be repeated in an open direction. The cam follower F includes at its distal end a valve surface for regulating or stopping flow of water W therethrough when valve surface is seated against seat . More generally the spring loaded valve Vand a cam follower Fare responsive to a cam surface Sto adjust the spring loaded valve Vbetween an open position wherein water passes therethrough and a closed position wherein water flow is substantially prevented therethrough. A cam surface S may regulate flow between an open position as illustrated in and closed position as seen in by placing the cam follower at an intermediate position as seen in .

In various embodiments the upper housing may have at least a first side with a first group of nozzles N provided thereat such as group A as noted in or . And in an embodiment the upper housing may also have a second side with a second group of nozzles N thereon such as group B as noted in . Likewise further groups such as a group C of nozzles N or a group D of nozzles N may be provided. More generally the upper housing may have a plurality of sizes such as X sides wherein X is a positive integer and wherein a group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies is provided on each of said X sides.

As seen by comparing and in a group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies nozzles N are provided having a selected outlet diameter D. The selected outlet diameter D may vary amongst nozzles in any group of sprinkler nozzle assemblies A B etc. as dictated by water delivery requirements for the particular service to the land parcel . In an embodiment such outlet diameters D may have diameters D D D Das shown in wherein such diameters D are increasingly smaller at increasing mounting heights. Or as shown in diameters D may be configured to be increasingly smaller at decreasing mounting heights. When sprinkler nozzle assemblies are mounted in groups A B etc. such groups may be mounted in vertically aligned arrays one above the other. More generally nozzles N in each sprinkler nozzle assembly A may have nozzle diameters D selected to deliver water a selected range of radial distances R from the sprinkler for watering a surface of a land parcel having a selected size and shape. Yet more generally the nozzles N in sprinkler each have nozzle diameters D which in co operation with the groups of sprinkler nozzle assemblies A B C etc. and with associated cam elements E deliver a selected volume of water along a selected radial for a radial distance R from the sprinkler for watering a surface of a land parcel having a selected size and shape.

Lawn may be irrigated using a lawn sprinkler as described herein in order to water the irregularly shaped lawn while minimizing or substantially eliminating watering of areas beyond the perimeter of the lawn . Further in one embodiment a relatively uniform volume of water per unit area e.g. gallons per square foot of lawn in a given period of time or alternate measurement such as inches of rainfall equivalent over the irrigated area in a given period of time may be provided to lawn using sprinkler or its pop up type sprinkler equivalent .

It is to be appreciated that the various aspects features structures and embodiments of a lawn sprinkler with flow regulator for substantially uniform delivery of water on a volume per square foot of lawn as described herein is a significant improvement in the state of the art. The lawn sprinkler design is simple reliable and easy to use. Although only a few exemplary aspects and embodiments have been described in detail various details are sufficiently set forth in the drawing figures and in the specification provided herein to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention s which need not be further described by additional writing.

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for providing lawn sprinklers for watering irregularly shaped parcels. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various items in the apparatus and in the method s described herein may have been described as multiple discrete items in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding such aspects and details. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such items or sequence of operations are necessarily order dependent or that it is imperative to fully complete one step before starting another. For example the choice of where and how to mount a set of nozzles or selection of outlet diameters of such nozzles may be determined by a particular parcel to be watered and may be different as regards installation particulars amongst various situations for example depending on water pressure available and the amount of water desired to be directed to the parcel. Further certain details of installation may not need to be performed in the precise or exact order of presentation herein. And in different embodiments one or more items may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other items may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase an embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by developments described herein and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

