---

title: Automatic event categorization for event ticket network systems
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving event information associated with an event listing, the event information being inputted by a user of an online event management system at a client device; transmitting the event information to the online event management system, the event listing being synchronously categorized with the sending of the event information; and receiving from the online event management system one or more categories associated with the event listing for display to the user at the client device, the categories being automatically determined based on categorization models of the online event management system in response to the transmitted event information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09064212&OS=09064212&RS=09064212
owner: Eventbrite, Inc.
number: 09064212
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140603
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 278 902 filed 21 Oct. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to online event management systems and in particular categorizing events on such systems.

Many websites allow users to conduct a variety of actions online such as view content write reviews order items purchase tickets etc. These websites often present the user with a plurality of actions to choose from and allow the user to select the type of action he would like to perform. Once the action is selected the website typically redirects the client system of the user to a webpage where the action can be completed. For example some websites allow users to organize events using an online event management system. An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow users to view event listings register for events and purchase tickets for events. Online systems such as online event management systems can typically be accessed using suitable browser clients e.g. Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer .

One problem for online event management systems is the categorization of events. Owners of event management systems may wish to categorize events in order to facilitate for example business analysis search functionality or customer satisfaction. Online event management systems may process tens of thousands of events and it can be prohibitively expensive and time consuming to manually categorize each event.

In particular embodiments an event management system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event organization and management systems. An event management system may generate store receive or transmit event related data such as for example event listings event information details event history details event registration details event organizer details event attendee details ticket purchase details attendee check in details or event displays. An event management system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . In particular embodiments one or more users may use one or more client systems to access send data to and receive data from an event management system . A client system may access an event management system directly via network or via a third party system. A client system may be any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC or a computing tablet.

Network may be any suitable communications network. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network another suitable network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Connections may connect client system and event management system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable connections . In particular embodiments one or more connections include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH connections. In particular embodiments one or more connections each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network another suitable connection or a combination of two or more such connections . Connections need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first connections may differ in one or more respects from one or more second connections .

In particular embodiments an event management system may allow users to organize and manage events. An event may be for example a party a concert a conference a sporting event a fundraiser a networking event or a live performance. Events may occur online such as for example a web based seminar and offline such as for example a live seminar in a lecture hall . An event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets managing funds from ticket sales promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An event management system may also allow event attendees to view and manage various aspects of registering for an event such as for example viewing event listings viewing event information viewing event history information registering for events and purchasing tickets for events. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may use event management system to organize an event. The first user may input event information associated with the event. One or more second users may then use event management system to register for the event. The second users may view an event listing associated with the event and then purchase tickets for the event. Although this disclosure describes particular types of events this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of events. Moreover although this disclosure describes organizing and managing particular aspects of an event this disclosure contemplates organizing and managing any suitable aspects of an event.

In particular embodiments an event management system may have an event listing associated with each event managed by the system. An event listing may be hosted on event management system such as for example on a particular webpage associated with the event listing. An event listing may be accessed and displayed by any suitable client system such as for example by accessing the particular webpage associated with the event listing. An event listing may have an event information associated with the event listing. Event information may include for example information describing the event date type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer tickets number of tickets available for the event type of tickets available for the event ticket identifiers attendees attendee check in status or other suitable event information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of event information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of event information.

In particular embodiments the event information associated with an event listing may include an event attendee list. The event attendee list may include for example information describing one or more of the attendees registered to attend the event include the attendee s name phone number mailing address email address payment information ticket order information ticket information check in status and other suitable attendee information. Each attendee may be assigned one or more tickets and each ticket may have a unique ticket identifier. A ticket identifier may be an identification number a barcode a 2D barcode a QR code or another suitable unique identifier. Although this disclosure describes particular types of information associated with an event attendee list this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of information associated with an event attendee list.

In particular embodiments the event information associated with an event listing may include a total number and type of tickets that are available for the event. The type of tickets available for an event may include for example premium tickets general admission tickets reserved seating tickets another suitable type of tickets or two or more such types of tickets. There may be various numbers of each ticket type available for the event. The number of tickets available for an event may be based on a variety of factors. As an example and not by way of limitation the event organizer or venue owner may specify a particular number of tickets that may be sold for the event. As an example and not by way of limitations the number of tickets that may be sold may be based on the size or capacity of the venue. Although this disclosure describes particular numbers and types of tickets that are available for an event this disclosure contemplates any suitable numbers and types of tickets that are available for an event.

In particular embodiments a client system may access purchase information corresponding to an order. A purchase information may include for example an attendee s name phone number mailing address email address billing address payment information ticket order information or other suitable purchase information. Payment information may include for example credit card information bank account number PayPal username cash payment information money transfer information address verification system score for the payment validity information for the payment or other suitable payment information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of purchase information and payment information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of purchase information and payment information.

In particular embodiments each user of event management system may have an event history information associated with the user . Event history information may include event information and payment information associated with one or more events a user has attended or has registered to attend as well as purchase history information associated with each event. Event history information may also include event information associated with one or more event listings a user has created organized and managed. Although this disclosure describes particular event history information this disclosure contemplates any suitable event history information.

In particular embodiments the event management system may use a unique client identifier ID to identify a user . As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each client system . The event management system may assign each client system with an unique client identifier based on the IP address of the client system tracking cookies on the client system which may be appended to HTTP requests transmitted by the client system the serial number or asset tag of the client system or other suitable identifying information. As another example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each user which the user may provide to the event management system via a client system . The event management system may assign each user with a username and password that the user can input into client system which then transmits the username and password to the event management system . In particular embodiments the event management system can use the unique client identifier to determine that the user is accessing the system. As yet another example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each attendee of an event.

In particular embodiments the event management system may maintain an event management account for a user . The event management account may contain a variety of information about the user . As an example and not by way of limitation an event management account may contain personal information such as for example name sex location interests social network information such as for example friend connections personal information about user s friends financial information such as for example income credit history event history information such as for example the type data cost venue performers geographic location of the events a user has organize registered for or attended and other suitable information related to the user . Although this disclosure describes event management accounts containing particular types of information about a user this disclosure contemplates event management accounts containing any suitable information about a user .

In particular embodiments an event management system may use a shopping cart model to facilitate event registration. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may present a user with a plurality of event listings. The user may select one or more of the events to register for. When the user selects an event listing on event management system the event management system may metaphorically add that item e.g. registration for the event to a shopping cart. When the user is done selecting event listings then all the items in the shopping cart may be checked out i.e. ordered when the user provides payment information and possibly shipment information . In some embodiments when a user selects an event listing then that event listing may be checked out by automatically prompting the user for purchase information such as for example the user s name and payment information. The user then may be presented with a registration webpage that prompts the user for the user specific registration information to complete the registration. That webpage may be prefilled with information that was provided by the user when registering for another event or when establishing a user account on event management system . The information may then be validated by event management system and the registration may be completed. At this point the user may be presented with a registration confirmation webpage or a receipt that displays the details of the event and registration details. Event management system may also charge or withdraw funds from a financial account associated with user based on the payment information provided by the user . The shopping cart model may be facilitated by a client system operating offline from event management system . Although this disclosure describes particular means for registering for events and purchasing tickets this disclosure contemplates any suitable means for registering for events and purchasing tickets.

In particular embodiments an event organizer may input particular event information into the fields contained on webpage . As an example and not by way of limitation an event organizer may input an event title in field ticket information for the event in field a detailed description of the event or particular details associated with the event in field an image or logo to be associated with the event listing in field a date or time for the event in field or a location for the event in field . Although this disclosure describes creating an event listing with particular event information this disclosure contemplates creating an event listing with any suitable event information. As an example and not by way of limitation additional event information may include quantity of tickets quantity of tickets remaining event categories previous events at the same venue previous events put on by the event organizer additional images or logos links to vendor websites or other suitable event information. Moreover although this disclosure describes creating an event listing using particular components this disclosure contemplates creating an event listing using any suitable components.

In particular embodiments an event management system may evaluate an event listing to a category for the event associated with the event listing. The event management system may access event listings for events and associated event information or payment information and analyze the event listings to determine one or more categories for the events. Existing systems that allow the event organizer to select the event category may be inaccurate or not match the categories that the event management system owners would associate with the event. Furthermore existing automatic event categorization systems that operate via a simple textual analysis may improperly categorize events by giving certain terms improper weight. Although this disclosure describes particular methods for categorizing event listings this disclosure contemplates any suitable methods for categorizing event listings. Moreover although this disclosure describes using particular components to categorize event listings this disclosure contemplates using any suitable components to categorize event listings.

In particular embodiments an event management system may identify features associated with particular event listings. The features may be derived from an analysis of one or more previous event listings. A feature is an attribute that characterizes the event information associated with an event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation features may be words phrases domains compounds rules user identified categories user identifications usernames metadata a combination of two or more such features or other suitable attributes. For example a word feature may be the word pizza a phrase feature may be learn to cook a domain feature may be a link to www.makepizza.com a compound feature may be a boolean combination of word pizza username PizzaChef14 a user identified category may be cooking classes or a metadata feature may be user PizzaChef14 s previous event listings and website interactions. In particular embodiments an event information for an event may contain information relating to the location of the event that may be identified as a feature. As an example and not by way of limitation the event title detailed description of the event image or logo associate with the event listing date or time of the event or location of the event from the event information may provide information relating to the location of the event. In particular embodiments a feature may be the event history of an event organizer including the events they have created and attended. As an example and not by way of limitation if an event organizer has previously created several music events a feature may be a rule that events created by the event organizer will have a higher probability of being designated as music. In particular embodiments a feature may be the event preference and attendances of the event organizers online friends. In particular embodiments a set of features may be generated by analyzing previous event listings and manually selecting portions of event informations to correspond to features. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may access an event listing where the title is Dungeons Dragons Winter Convention. The user may then manually identify Dungeons Dragons Winter and Convention as three separate features. The set of features may be also be generated automatically such as for example by using a frequency algorithm such as term frequency inverse document frequency tf idf or another suitable analytical technique. In particular embodiments an event management system may update the set of features at particular times. The set of features may be updated in real time or post facto. As an example and not by way of limitation an event management system may update a set of features each time an event listing is created by an event organizer. As another example and not by way of limitation an event management system may update the set of features when the event organizer makes an update or change to the event information associated with an event listing. As yet another example and not by way of limitation event management system may update a set of features periodically such as every ten minutes every hour every day or at another suitable period. In particular embodiments features may be given context. As an example and not by way of limitation context may include information describing the types of events or categories that particular features are typically associated with or determining the meaning of an ambiguous word from surrounding features. As an example and not by way of limitation the word startup may be a word feature that has a high probability of corresponding to entrepreneurial business when other features such as the phrases investment opportunity or market niche are present in the event information. Although this disclosure describes identifying features and generating sets of features in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates any suitable methods for identifying features and generating sets of features. Moreover although this disclosure describes using particular components to generate sets of features this disclosure contemplates using any suitable components to generate sets of features.

In particular embodiments an event management system may identify features based at least in part on term frequency inverse document frequency tf idf of one or more words or terms in the event information associated with the event listing. The tf idf is a statistical measure used to evaluate how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus. The importance increases proportionally to the number of times a word appears in a particular document but is offset by the frequency of the word in the corpus of documents. The term count in a document is simply the number of times a given term appears in the document. This count may be normalized to prevent a bias towards longer documents which may have a higher term count regardless of the actual importance of that term in the document and to give a measure of the importance of the term t within the particular document d. Thus we have the term frequency tf t d defined in the simplest case as the occurrence count of a term in a document. The inverse document frequency idf is a measure of the general importance of the term which is obtained by dividing the total number of documents by the number of documents containing the term and then taking the logarithm of that quotient. A high weight in tf idf is reached by a high term frequency in the given document and a low document frequency of the term in the whole collection of documents the weights hence tend to filter out common terms.

In particular embodiments event management system may generate a set of features based at least in part on term frequency inverse document frequency tf idf . The following is an example algorithm that an event management system could use to calculate a tf idf value for a particular event information tf idf tf idf

In particular embodiments an event management system may apply an event categorization model to categorize an event listing. An event categorization model may calculate the probability that event information associated with an event listing corresponds to a given event category. An event categorization model may compare a set of features from an event listing with a set of features typically associated with a particular category to determine the probability that the event listing is associated with that category. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more event categorization models may calculate that based on a given set of features in an event listing the event listing has a 22 probability of being associated with the food category and a 74 probability of being associated with the conference category. Although this disclosure describes categorizing event listings in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates categorizing event listings in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an event management system may generate an event categorization model using supervised learning to generate a mathematical model or function from control data. A model is a means for describing a system or object. As an example and not by way of limitation a model may be a data set function algorithm differential equation chart table decision tree simulation another suitable model or two or more such models. A model may describe a variety of systems or objects. A mathematical model may be created for each desired category to represent a set of control event listings and this model may later be used to classify an event listing. In particular embodiments the set of control event listings may consist of existing event data and manually selected categories. As an example and not by way of limitation an event management system may access a set of control event listings that have been manually categorized as food events. The event management system may then analyze the features of these event listings to determine what features are associated with food event listings such as for example words like food eat drink or cook . A model may then be created based on the identified features in the set of control event listings. This model may then be used to categorize other event listings that are not yet associated with a particular category e.g. newly created event listings to determine the probability that these other event listings are food events. In particular embodiments the set of control event listings may be analyzed using logistic regression binary classification multiclass classification or maximum likelihood estimation to refine the categorization model. In particular embodiments the accuracy of the categorization model may be verified. As an example and not by way of limitation the validity of a categorization model may be estimated by cross validation to prevent overfitting. In particular embodiments the validity of a categorization model may be periodically evaluated to ensure that event listings are automatically categorized correctly. As an example and not by way of limitation event listings may be randomly selected and manually verified to ensure that a categorization model is properly categorizing event listings. Although this disclosure describes generating a categorization model in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating a categorization model in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an event management system may use one or more event categorization models to automatically categorize events or event listings. The following is an example algorithm that an event management system could use to automatically categorize an event or event listing 

In particular embodiments an event management system may access event information associated with an event listing to facilitate categorization of the event or event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation each time an event management system receives a new event listing the event management system may access the event information associated with the event listing in order to determine a category to associate with the event listing. In particular embodiments the event management system may store the event information associated with an event listing for later automatic categorization or it may automatically categorize the new event synchronously with receiving the event listing. Although this disclosure contemplates accessing event information associated with an event listing in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates accessing event information associated with an event listing in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an event management system may access a list or set comprising a plurality of features. The list of features may include features previously determined by analyzing other event listings. As an example and not by way of limitation the list of features may comprise a list of features found in all previous event listings. In particular embodiments an event management system may access a list of features remotely or the list of features may be stored locally on the event management system . Although this disclosure describes accessing a list comprising a plurality of features in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates accessing a list features in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an event management system may compare a list comprising a plurality of features to the event information associated with an event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may compare the event information with the list of features to determine the value of each feature in an event listing based on the event information such as for example what features and how many of each feature from the list are present in the event information. If a feature is not present in an event listing a value of zero may be calculated for that feature. In particular embodiments the event management system may create a record of the features associated with the event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may generate a matrix a sparse matrix or other suitable data structure indicating the value of each feature in the feature list that is associated with the event listing. As another example and not by way of limitation a comparison may report that an event information contains particular values of the features music guitar lessons and a picture of a man playing a guitar. The comparison may also indicate as a feature whether the event organizer has previously created events for piano lessons and voice lessons. The event management system may then determine that certain values of these features are associated with a high probability that the event listing is in the music category. Although this disclosure describes comparing a list comprising a plurality of features with event information associated with an event listing in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates comparing a list comprising a plurality of features with event information associated with an event in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an event management system may calculate one or more category probabilities for an event listing using one or more categorization models. Each categorization model may calculate a category probability based at least in part on the event information associated with the event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation each categorization model may include one or more variables based on a preset list of one of more features the presence or frequency of one or more features being associated with the event listing the absence of one or more features being associated with the event listing or other suitable inputs. In particular embodiments each categorization model may calculate a probability corresponding to a particular category and the category probability may correspond to the probability that an event listing falls within the category. As an example and not by way of limitation one categorization model may calculate the probability that an event listing is a food event while another categorization model may calculate the probability that an event is a conference event. The event management system may calculate a category probability for an event listing using a plurality of categorization models in sequence or in parallel. In particular embodiments the category probability for the event listing may be a percentile rank equal to the percentage of event listings that have a category probability the same or lower than the event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing may be classified as having a 23 probability of being a food event as having a 55 probability of being a conference event and as having a 94 probability of being an art event. In particular embodiments the event management system may calculate the probability of an event listing being associated with a category c using the algorithm

In particular embodiments the methods and processes described herein may be implemented as a series of computer readable instructions embodied on a data storage medium that when executed are operable to cause one or more processors to implement particular operations. For smaller datasets operations may be executed on a single computing platform or node. For larger systems and resulting data sets parallel computing platforms may be used. As an example and not by way of limitation development platforms that can leverage Hadoop or other Map Reduce execution engines may be used. The Apache Software Foundation has developed a collection of programs called Hadoop which includes a distributed file system and an application programming interface API and corresponding implementation of MapReduce. In particular embodiments system may comprise a high availability cluster of commodity servers with one or more slave servers as nodes. Ordinarily nodes in a high availability cluster are redundant so that if one node crashes while performing a particular application the cluster software can restart the application on one or more other nodes. Multiple nodes may also facilitate parallel processing of large databases. In particular embodiments a master server may receive a job from a client and then assigns tasks resulting from that job to one or more slave servers or nodes which do the actual work of executing the assigned tasks upon instruction from the master and which move data between tasks. In particular embodiments the client jobs will invoke Hadoop s MapReduce functionality. Likewise in particular embodiments a master server governs a distributed file system that supports parallel processing of large databases. As an example and not by way of limitation a master server may manage the file system s namespace and block mapping to nodes as well as client access to files which are actually stored on slave servers or nodes. In turn in particular embodiments the slave servers do the actual work of executing read and write requests from clients and perform block creation deletion and replication upon instruction from the master server. Although this disclosure describes using particular computing platforms this disclosure contemplates using any suitable computing platforms.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

