---

title: Content storage mapping
abstract: A data storage method and system. The method includes defining, by a computing system, a meta-object, a schema based structured definition for the meta-object, and a taxonomy with configuration data. The computing system creates content associated with the taxonomy and associates topics of the content with a logical storage room representations. Reference coordinates associated with the logical storage room representations are associated with the taxonomy. The computing system generates updated configuration data that includes the reference coordinates and a uniform resource identifier associated with the content is generated. The computing system generates an account associated with the meta-object for a user. Metering charges for usage of the account and a report associated with the account and usage are generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218398&OS=09218398&RS=09218398
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09218398
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140711
---
This application is a continuation application claiming priority to Ser. No. 13 964 207 filed Aug. 12 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 862 599 issued Oct. 14 2014 which is a continuation application claiming priority to Ser. No. 13 448 511 filed Apr. 17 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 554 777 issued Oct. 8 2013 which is a continuation application claiming priority to Ser. No. 12 606 260 filed Oct. 27 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 229 936 issued Jul. 24 2012.

The present invention relates to a method and associated system for storing and retrieving distributed data.

Accessing information typically comprises an inefficient process with little flexibility. Systems are typically required to access and view information at a single location which may be inefficient. Accessing information at a single location at a single time may be very time consuming.

The present invention provides a method comprising defining by a computing system a user accessible meta object referencing contextual content wherein said user accessible meta object comprises a functional operation referenced object a service referenced object or a content specific referenced object defining by said computing system a schema based structured definition for said user accessible meta object defining by said computing system from said schema based structured definition a predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy and a configuration data map associated with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy determining by said computing system that content is required for said computing system creating by a processor of said computing system said content wherein said content comprises user accessible contextual content associated with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy associating by said computing system user accessible topics of relevant tangible content of said content with specified logical storage room representations wherein each storage room of said specified logical storage room representations comprises contextual content storage address spaces associating by said computing system reference coordinates with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy wherein said reference coordinates are associated with said specified logical storage room representations determining by said computing system a change associated with a relative point of view associated with each node of said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy updating by said computing system said configuration data map wherein said updating said configuration data map comprises generating updated configuration data wherein said updated configuration data comprises reference coordinate pointers pointing to the contextual content storage address spaces and wherein the contextual content storage address spaces are comprised by a plurality of different storage mediums and a plurality of different physical storage locations generating by said computing system a uniform resource identifier URI associated with said content enabling a direct internal access mapping to the contextual content storage address spaces associated with said reference coordinate pointers determining by said computing system metering charges for usage of an account per paid subscription to the user accessible contextual content applying by said computing system key performance indicators to transactional analysis usage patterns of said user accessible contextual content generating by said computing system a report associated with said account and said usage and storing by said computing system said report.

The present invention provides a computing apparatus comprising a processor coupled to a computer readable memory unit said memory unit comprising instructions that when executed by the processor implements a method comprising defining by said computing system a user accessible meta object referencing contextual content wherein said user accessible meta object comprises a functional operation referenced object a service referenced object or a content specific referenced object defining by said computing system a schema based structured definition for said user accessible meta object defining by said computing system from said schema based structured definition a predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy and a configuration data map associated with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy determining by said computing system that content is required for said computing system creating by a processor of said computing system said content wherein said content comprises user accessible contextual content associated with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy associating by said computing system user accessible topics of relevant tangible content of said content with specified logical storage room representations wherein each storage room of said specified logical storage room representations comprises contextual content storage address spaces associating by said computing system reference coordinates with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy wherein said reference coordinates are associated with said specified logical storage room representations determining by said computing system a change associated with a relative point of view associated with each node of said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy updating by said computing system said configuration data map wherein said updating said configuration data map comprises generating updated configuration data wherein said updated configuration data comprises reference coordinate pointers pointing to the contextual content storage address spaces and wherein the contextual content storage address spaces are comprised by a plurality of different storage mediums and a plurality of different physical storage locations generating by said computing system a uniform resource identifier URI associated with said content enabling a direct internal access mapping to the contextual content storage address spaces associated with said reference coordinate pointers determining by said computing system metering charges for usage of an account per paid subscription to the user accessible contextual content applying by said computing system key performance indicators to transactional analysis usage patterns of said user accessible contextual content generating by said computing system a report associated with said account and said usage and storing by said computing system said report.

The present invention provides a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage device storing a computer readable program code said computer readable program code configured to perform method upon being executed by a computer processor of a computing system said method comprising defining by said computing system a user accessible meta object referencing contextual content wherein said user accessible meta object comprises a functional operation referenced object a service referenced object or a content specific referenced object defining by said computing system a schema based structured definition for said user accessible meta object defining by said computing system from said schema based structured definition a predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy and a configuration data map associated with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy determining by said computing system that content is required for said computing system creating by a processor of said computing system said content wherein said content comprises user accessible contextual content associated with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy associating by said computing system user accessible topics of relevant tangible content of said content with specified logical storage room representations wherein each storage room of said specified logical storage room representations comprises contextual content storage address spaces associating by said computing system reference coordinates with said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy wherein said reference coordinates are associated with said specified logical storage room representations determining by said computing system a change associated with a relative point of view associated with each node of said predefined user access content mapped hierarchical taxonomy updating by said computing system said configuration data map wherein said updating said configuration data map comprises generating updated configuration data wherein said updated configuration data comprises reference coordinate pointers pointing to the contextual content storage address spaces and wherein the contextual content storage address spaces are comprised by a plurality of different storage mediums and a plurality of different physical storage locations generating by said computing system a uniform resource identifier URI associated with said content enabling a direct internal access mapping to the contextual content storage address spaces associated with said reference coordinate pointers determining by said computing system metering charges for usage of an account per paid subscription to the user accessible contextual content applying by said computing system key performance indicators to transactional analysis usage patterns of said user accessible contextual content generating by said computing system a report associated with said account and said usage and storing by said computing system said report.

The present invention advantageously provides a simple method and associated system capable of saving information.

System provides a single reference point point of view as described in detail with respect to infra allowing simultaneous access to multiple pointers that point to multiple address spaces associated with a plurality of different storage mediums and different physical storage locations each comprising different data as opposed to a single reference point allowing access to only one pointer that points to only a single address space associated with a single storage medium or location. A virtual data architectural data layer e.g. see provides a standardized integration system to expose data as a service. System provides a common means to integrate to all forms of data resources and data flowing through an enterprise operation environment by providing a commonly referenced interface thereby allowing system to 

System of comprises a computing apparatus connected to a computing system through a network . Network may comprise any type of network including inter alia a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet etc. Computing apparatus may comprise any type of computing apparatus including inter alia a personal computer a laptop computer a computer terminal etc. Computing apparatus may comprise a single computing apparatus or a plurality of computing apparatuses. Computing apparatus is used by end users for communicating with e.g. entering data computing system . Computing system may comprise any type of computing system s including inter alia a personal computer PC a server computer a database computer etc. Computing system is used to store and retrieve data from computing apparatus . Computing system may comprise a multi sourced user accessible context and content driven data access computer comprising an application architectural component that performs the work of intelligent retrieval and storage and navigation coordination of contextual content from multiple storage locations and types. Computing system comprises a memory system . Memory system may comprise a single memory system. Alternatively memory system may comprise a plurality of memory systems. Memory system comprises a software application and a database . Database may comprise multiple databases. Database comprises all retrieved data i.e. retrieved from computing apparatus and any generated data e.g. data layer model as described with respect to . System comprises a DOORS system providing a universal natural 3D relative positioning i.e. X Y Z axis type storage as described with respect to interface to a framework that enables a standardized means of access retrieval storage and management capabilities of diverse and federated data sources i.e. a plurality of different storage mediums and different physical storage locations across an enterprise model through a virtual architectural data access layer. Additionally a 3D relative positioning of a specific area of a topic enables a user to pivot and transverse to its semantic relationships along an X Y and Z axis i.e. a single point of view pointing to multiple pointers X Y and Z . System enables a single intersection point between the X Y and Z axis to hold a different value depending on a perspective of a relative point of view. The DOORS system allows for increased storage capacity of various data at a same address space depending on a point of view perspective.

As an example address space 001.Field i.e. on the X axis or pointer address space 001.Record i.e. on the Y axis or pointer and address space 001.File i.e. on the Z axis or pointer may be simultaneously viewed and accessed.

Logical diagram represents three dimensional planes i.e. Y plane of a room an X plane of a room and a Z plane of a room of a logical storage room representation. A room is defined herein as a logical reference to a specific topic that a user would have access to use within system of . X Y and Z coordinates in logical diagram represent each dimensional plane of a three dimensional POV i.e. Y plane of a room an X plane of a room and a Z plane of a room . Collectively a combination of X Y and Z coordinates represent a specified POV within a viewing space. Enumerated subject areas are defined differently for each dimensional plane X Y and Z of a user accessible topic i.e. room . For example if a Topic of a Room is Smart Devices subject areas represent a multi dimensional hierarchical relationship of content relevant to the topic Smart Devices . For Example Z subject area comprises a referenced component within a smart device Y comprises a sensor within the component and X comprises defined attributes of the sensors. In this example i.e. in reference to this room as the user moves along the Z axis he she moves between various components. As the user moves along the Y axis his her references to specific a sensor changes. As the user moves along the X axis his her references to sensor attributes changes. Therefore in this example the point of view POV would represent a specific attribute within a specific sensor within a certain component being referenced with the topic of smart devices.

As an example address space 009.Record i.e. on the X axis or pointer address space 009.File i.e. on the Y axis or pointer and address space 009.Directory i.e. on the Z axis or pointer may be simultaneously viewed and accessed.

Logical diagram represents three dimensions i.e. Y plane of a room an X plane of a room and a Z plane of a room of a logical storage room representation. For example if a Topic of a Room is Smart Grid subject areas represent a multi dimensional hierarchical relationship of content relevant to the topic Smart Grid . In this example Z subject area comprises a referenced smart device within the Smart Grid Y comprises a component within the smart device and X comprises a sensor with the component. Logical diagram of represents a next level within a hierarchical taxonomy of related content between rooms. Taxonomies exist within room and between rooms and as the user moves between rooms they traverse through adjoining taxonomies. Within rooms configuration data provides cross reference mapping of the X Y and Z coordinates to multi dimensional subject areas as defined with room taxonomies. The DOORS system manages this level of complexity and simultaneous multi dimensional navigational access through its unique data access layer.

As a first example physical disk drives have tracks and cylinders. In a DOORS system a disk may represent a Z axis a cylinder may represent a Y axis and tracks may represent an X axis.

As a second example an aggregation of storage devices into a storage access network SAN may include a SAN representing a Z axis reference a list of storage devices within the SAN representing a Y axis reference and a disk within the storage device representing an X axis reference. A SAN comprises an architecture to attach remote computer storage devices such as disk arrays tape libraries and optical jukeboxes to servers in such a way that the devices appear as locally attached to the operating system. A SAN as described in the second example enables multiple translation of a same reference point depending on a perspective of point of view POV . A multi perspective 3D Point of view design may be translated to a logical multiple layer storage translation at a shared address space and increase storage capacity with the use of more sophisticated translation pointers.

Still yet any of the components of the present invention could be created integrated hosted maintained deployed managed serviced etc. by a service provider who offers to for store and retrieve distributed data. Thus the present invention discloses a process for deploying creating integrating hosting maintaining and or integrating computing infrastructure comprising integrating computer readable code into the computer system wherein the code in combination with the computer system is capable of performing a method for storing and retrieving distributed data. In another embodiment the invention provides a business method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to store and retrieve distributed data. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

While shows the computer system as a particular configuration of hardware and software any configuration of hardware and software as would be known to a person of ordinary skill in the art may be utilized for the purposes stated supra in conjunction with the particular computer system of . For example the memory devices and may be portions of a single memory device rather than separate memory devices.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration many modifications and changes will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to encompass all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

