---

title: Subscription and channel management technology
abstract: Subscription and channel management technology, in which a system allows a user to subscribe to a subset of the available channels on a content delivery network and personalize at least one channel. The system identifies a user identity of the user and stores, in a user database, channel subscription information for the user identity based on the subset of channels to which the user subscribed and the user personalization. The system identifies a downloader device associated with the user identity and controls the downloader device based on the channel subscription information stored in the user database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258585&OS=09258585&RS=09258585
owner: PurpleComm Inc.
number: 09258585
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141201
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 758 417 filed Feb. 4 2013 now allowed which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 795 019 filed Jun. 7 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 370 874 Feb. 5 2013 both of which are incorporated by reference.

Content viewers today are exposed to an overwhelming amount of information and are challenged by the degree of interaction and personalization needed to manage this massive amount of information. In an era of digital communications a user may be confused by an array of technology including traditional analog televisions DVRs Digital Video Recorders PVRs Personal Video Recorders media centers EPG Electronic Program Guide based systems Internet related content and traditional remote control devices.

In one aspect a method of providing channel information to users of a content delivery network includes enabling a user to subscribe to available channels on a content delivery network receiving from the user subscription to a subset of the available channels on the content delivery network and receiving from the user user personalization of at least one channel. The method also includes identifying a user identity of the user and storing in a user database channel subscription information for the user identity based on the subset of channels to which the user subscribed and the user personalization. The method further includes identifying a downloader device associated with the user identity and controlling the downloader device based on the channel subscription information stored in the user database.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include displaying to the user channel information for channels available on the content delivery network and receiving from the user user input subscribing to a subset of channels included in the displayed channel information. In this example the method may include displaying to the user preview content for the channels available on the content delivery network and enabling subscription to a subset of channels included in the displayed channel information based on review of the preview content.

In some implementations the method may include receiving user input assigning a channel number to a channel subscribed to by the user and storing the assigned channel number of the channel in the user database. In these implementations the method may include making the channel available on the downloader device at the assigned channel number.

The method may include receiving user input assigning a genre to a channel subscribed to by the user storing the assigned genre of the channel in the user database and making the channel available on the downloader device at the assigned genre. The method also may include receiving from the user user input adding one or more content files to a channel setting a personalized definition of the channel based on the received user input and storing the personalized definition of the channel in the user database. The method further may include making the personalized definition of the channel available to the downloader device.

In addition the method may include receiving from the user user input adding one or more content files to a user defined channel that only includes content files added by the user defining the user defined channel to include the one or more content files and making the user defined channel available to the downloader device. The method also may include receiving from the user user input adding one or more content files to a channel defined by a content curator that includes content files added by the content curator supplementing the channel to include the one or more content files added by the user in addition to the content files added by the content curator and making the supplemented channel available to the downloader device.

In some examples the method may include retrieving from the user database channel links for the subset of channels subscribed to by the user sending the retrieved channels links to the downloader device and controlling the downloader device to monitor for updates to channel information for channels subscribed to by the user using the channel links. In these examples the method may include mapping the user identity to an address of the downloader device at which the downloader device is available on a network and sending the retrieved channels links to the address.

Further the method may include retrieving from the user database personalization information for the at least one channel and sending the retrieved personalization information to the downloader device. The method may include controlling the downloader device to modify the at least one channel in accordance with the retrieved personalization information.

In some implementations the method may include receiving an update to a channel subscribed to by the user controlling the downloader device to download updated channel information published at a channel link that corresponds to the updated channel and controlling the downloader device to download new content added to the updated channel based on the updated channel information. In these implementations the method may include receiving an indication that the downloader device downloaded the new content added to the updated channel and storing a download record in the user database to indicate that the downloader device has downloaded the new content added to the updated channel.

In some examples the method may include receiving an update to supplemental channel information for a channel subscribed to by the user and controlling the downloader device to download the updated supplemental channel information published at a channel link that corresponds to the channel. In these examples the method may include controlling the downloader device to control previously stored content for the channel based on the updated supplemental channel information.

The method may include receiving from a first user subscription to a first subset of the available channels on the content delivery network and receiving from a second user subscription to a second subset of the available channels on the content delivery network. The first user may be different than the second user and the first subset of the channels may be different than the second subset of the channels. The method also may include identifying a first user identity of the first user and identifying a second user identity of the second user. The method further may include storing in the user database first channel subscription information for the first user identity based on the first subset of channels to which the first user subscribed and storing in the user database second channel subscription information for the second user identity based on the second subset of channels to which the second user subscribed. In addition the method may include identifying a first downloader device associated with the first user identity identifying a second downloader device associated with the second user identity controlling the first downloader device based on the first channel subscription information stored in the user database and controlling the second downloader device based on the second channel subscription information stored in the user database.

In some examples the method may include receiving from a first user first personalization of a first channel subscribed to by the first user and receiving from a second user second personalization of the first channel subscribed to by the second user. The first user may be different than the second user and the first personalization may be different than the second personalization. In these examples the method may include identifying a first user identity of the first user identifying a second user identity of the second user storing in the user database first channel subscription information for the first user identity based on the first personalization to the first channel and storing in the user database second channel subscription information for the second user identity based on the second personalization to the first channel. Further in these examples the method may include identifying a first downloader device associated with the first user identity identifying a second downloader device associated with the second user identity controlling the first downloader device to personalize the first channel for the first user based on the first channel subscription information stored in the user database and controlling the second downloader device to personalize the first channel for the second user based on the second channel subscription information stored in the user database.

The method may include enabling a user to subscribe to available channels that are each defined by a different content curator. The method also may include retrieving from the user database the channel subscription information and sending the retrieved channel subscription information to the downloader device.

In some implementations the method may include displaying representations of content files from a private collection of the user and after displaying representations of content files included in the private collection of the user receiving from the user input selecting one or more of the content files from the private collection of the user to include in a channel to which the user subscribed. In these implementations the method may include based on the input selecting the one or more content files including the one or more content files from the private collection of the user in the channel to which the user subscribed such that the channel includes content files added to the channel by a content curator that is different than the user and the one or more content files from the private collection of the user.

In addition the method may include receiving from the user input defining a personal channel for the user that includes content files selected by the user to include in the personal channel. The method also may include receiving from the user input selecting one or more content files from a private collection of the user to include in the personal channel.

In another aspect a system includes at least one computer and at least one computer readable medium coupled to the at least one computer having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the at least one computer causes the at least one computer to perform operations. The operations include enabling a user to subscribe to available channels on a content delivery network receiving from the user subscription to a subset of the available channels on the content delivery network and receiving from the user user personalization of at least one channel. The operations also include identifying a user identity of the user and storing in a user database channel subscription information for the user identity based on the subset of channels to which the user subscribed and the user personalization. The operations further include identifying a downloader device associated with the user identity and controlling the downloader device based on the channel subscription information stored in the user database.

In yet another aspect at least one computer readable storage medium is encoded with at least one computer program comprising instructions that when executed operate to cause a computer to perform operations. The operations include enabling a user to subscribe to available channels on a content delivery network receiving from the user subscription to a subset of the available channels on the content delivery network and receiving from the user user personalization of at least one channel. The operations also include identifying a user identity of the user and storing in a user database channel subscription information for the user identity based on the subset of channels to which the user subscribed and the user personalization. The operations further include identifying a downloader device associated with the user identity and controlling the downloader device based on the channel subscription information stored in the user database.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Multiple types of content such as audio e.g. music podcasts video and still images e.g. photographs may be made available over the content delivery network . Licensed and license free content may be made available. For example licensed content may be acquired from a content owner .

Content may be made available from a variety of sources. For example Internet content may be accessed from an Internet link e.g. URL Uniform Resource Locator . Content may also be accessed from peer to peer networks. For example content may be accessed from one or more BitTorrent clients which are part of one or more BitTorrent swarms . Content may be accessed from other sources such as from a television broadcast e.g. MSO Multiple System Operator cable satellite local or from content e.g. photographs audio previously recorded video available from devices e.g. DVR stereo computer DVD Digital Video Disc player connected to a user s home network and or located in a user s home.

Content curators may use a content curator portal to define custom channels which may be made available for subscription by end users . The content curators may be commissioned to search for select and organize multiple types of content from various sources into channels. Content curators may for example organize channels by topic or genre. Content curators may for example select licensed content license free content BitTorrent content or content from their private collection to name a few examples.

Channels may be offered for free to end users or end users may subscribe to channels on a fee basis. Users may rate or rank channels or content curators based for example on programming selection sequencing and quality. Content curators may be promoted for example based on popularity.

Content owners may be compensated for the use of licensed content that they own which is used in channels defined by content curators . For example the system may provide support for digital rights management DRM . By allowing access to their licensed content content owners may experience increased distribution and revenue and targeted exposure in focused channels. Multiple revenue agreements may be possible such as per use agreements subscription revenue sharing and advertisement revenue sharing.

A content curator may work with one or more advertisers such as an ad agency to include advertisements on a channel. For example an advertisement may be displayed if a user switches a channel or when a program finishes. As another example advertisements may be displayed on the display of a remote control device such as while a program is being displayed on a television. Content curators advertisers and content owners may share advertising revenue. Sharing in advertising revenue may provide an incentive for content curators to create interesting and popular channels. A content curator may work with one or more advertisers to create one or more advertisements which are customized and targeted for one or more particular channels. End users may customize advertisement viewing preferences such as by specifying preferred topics preferred or excluded companies region preferences etc.

Advertisers may use an advertiser portal to upload advertisements and to control advertisement publication. Advertisers may define and apply advertisement insertion rules to particular advertisements and or may allow a content curator to decide when and how to insert the advertisements into channels defined by the content curator . APIs Application Programming Interfaces may be provided which allow advertisers to enable the system to interface with standard advertisement inventory management systems to allow for control and management of advertisements . Various advertisement pricing plans may be supported such as individually priced ads or bulk pricing. Other advertising features may be included such as online purchasing of items or providing customer contact options.

Advertisers content curators and content owners may access user viewing behavior data. Advertisers may access user viewing behavior data such as viewed channels viewed content viewed advertisements advertisement display frequency advertisement viewed length user actions during advertisement display user characteristics advertisement and content view times advertisement and content view counts and hosting channel information to monitor reach and performance of advertising campaigns. Advertisements may be targeted to specific users based on recorded user viewing behavior data. Content curators may access user viewing behavior data to learn about behaviors of end users who subscribe to their channels. Content owners may access user viewing behavior data to learn about their fan base such as accessing information about user demographics time of day of access and user actions during content display. Content presentation and playback may be customized and personalized for a particular end user based specifically on recorded user viewing behavior of the particular end user and generally on recorded user viewing behavior of all users.

User viewing behavior data may be captured for example by a media player and or a downloader device . The media player and or the downloader device may play content included or ordered on a channel defined by a content curator . In some implementations the media player may play content downloaded from the content delivery network by the downloader device . In some implementations the media player and the downloader device are different logical functions of the same physical device. In other implementations the media player and the downloader device are different physical devices. In some implementations the media player is a software application which may be executed for example on a computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer.

The media player and or the downloader device may be connected to external media storage devices respectively. The external media storage devices may be for example USB Universal Serial Bus drives. The external media storage devices may be used for example to transfer data to from the media player or the downloader device respectively such as to transfer data to from a computing device.

The media player and or the downloader device may communicate wirelessly with one or more remote control devices . The end user may navigate through channels and perform other functions using the remote control device . The remote control device may communicate e.g. using Infrared IR technology of radio frequency RF technology with the television the media player and or the downloader device . The remote control device also may communicate over a network with the media player and or the downloader device to control functions of the media player or the downloader device . The remote control device may include a small display screen that displays preview content and or advertisements.

The media player and or the downloader device may download content from the content delivery network without consuming resources of a computing device owned by the end user . For example content may be downloaded into the home of an end user without using resources of a personal computer owned by the end user . The media player and the downloader device may use less electricity than a personal computer thus reducing the electric bill of the end user . The media player and or the downloader device may connect to other computing devices connected on a user s home network. The media player and or the downloader device may include built in functionality to communicate with and download information from a peer to peer network such as the BitTorrent swarm .

The end user may search for and subscribe to content using an end user content search portal . For example the end user content search portal may provide a directory listing of available defined channels. The directory listing may be organized in a hierarchy of categories and sub categories. A particular channel may appear in one or more categories or sub categories. The end user content search portal may also provide a search function to allow end users to search for available defined channels based on a keyword search. As another example users may search for channels based on other criteria such as sorting channels based on channel or content curator popularity or ranking. An end user may subscribe to a defined channel for example by selecting a channel link displayed in a directory listing or in a list of search results.

The end user may also search for and initiate download of individual content items to the downloader device using a partner site such as a BitTorrent search engine . As another example the end user may send an email which includes a content link to an email address associated with their downloader device to initiate an automatic download to the downloader device of the content linked to by the content link. The content link may refer to a content file available on the Internet and may be a reference to a video resource available from a streaming video website. The end user may send an email with an attachment to an email address associated with the downloader device to initiate a download of the attachment to the downloader device . The end user may use an end user content download portal to search for and to select content to download to the downloader device .

The content and directory database stores information about content and also information about defined channels. Content curators may use a content curator portal to define channels and to manage defined channels. The content curator portal may display a listing of licensed and license free content available in the content and directory database . The content curator portal may also provide a search function which allows the content curator to search for content available in the content and directory database and to also search for content included in the private collection of the content curator or content available on the Internet such as content available from peer to peer networks such as BitTorrent .

The content curator portal may communicate with a content curator server . For example a channel definition defined using the content curator portal may be sent to the content curator server which may communicate with the server system to request that the channel definition be stored in the content and directory database . As another example information for existing channel definitions associated with a particular content curator may be retrieved from the content and directory database and sent from the content curator portal server to the content curator portal for display.

In some implementations the content curator portal server is one physical server computing device and in other implementations the content curator portal server includes multiple physical server computing devices. Similarly in some implementations the server system is one physical server computing device and in other implementations the server system includes multiple physical server computing devices. In some implementations multiple physical server computing devices are used with some or all server computing devices implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system . In some implementations one physical server computing device is used with the one physical server device implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system .

The network may be one or more public or private wired or wireless networks such as the Internet or may be a Session Initiated Protocol SIP network such as the PsipTN network offered by TelTel . The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data services. The network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway.

Content may be downloaded to one or more user media player downloader devices . For example content corresponding to a user subscribed channel may be automatically downloaded to the media player downloader device in response to a user selection of a corresponding channel. As another example a user may search for and download content to the media player downloader device . A user may using a remote user device monitor and manage user initiated downloads. The remote user device may be any type of electronic device configured to exchange communications with the server system over a network. The remote user device may be a general purpose computer e.g. a desktop personal computer a workstation or a laptop computer a mobile or wireless device or a device designed for a specific function e.g. a cell phone a smart phone a tablet PC a personal digital assistant PDA etc. .

The end user content search portal may display a user interface which allows an end user to browse available channels to watch preview content associated with channel content and to subscribe to channels. The end user may subscribe to a subset of the available channels and may personalize one or more channels such as by assigning a channel number or a genre to a subscribed channel. Channel subscriptions and channel personalizations may be stored by the end user portal server in an end user database .

The system enables a user to subscribe to available channels on a content delivery network . A user may subscribe to a channel defined by a content curator. For example illustrates a system which includes channels and available over a content delivery network . Channel includes content file A and content file B channel includes content file C channel includes content file D and content file E and channel includes content file F . A user one user has subscribed to channels and a user two user has subscribed to channels and and a user three user has subscribed to channel .

The system may enable a user to subscribe to available channels by displaying to the user channel information and preview content for channels available on the content delivery network. The end user may browse channel information and view preview content using a user interface displayed on a user portal with the user portal displayed for example on a display screen of a computing device or on a television screen in the user s home. As described in more detail below with respect to the user may select one or more channels for subscription based on review of the channel information and preview content.

The system displays channel information for channels available on a content delivery network . For example channel information may be displayed on a user interface such as an example user interface illustrated in . The user interface may be displayed for example on a user portal e.g. the end user content search portal . The user may log in to the user portal to access the user interface . The user may use controls and to browse for channels. For example the control may be selected to view channel information for recommended channels e.g. channels may be recommended based on a user s interests as stored in a user profile or based on a similarity of recommended channels to a user s currently subscribed channels . A user may select control to browse channel information by genre. Available genres may include sports movies entertainment children s programming drama action and music to name a few examples. A user may select control to browse channel information for popular channels. Channel popularity may be based for example on user ranking and or subscriber count.

The user may select the control to browse channel information by content curator. A user may select the control and then select the name of a content curator to see channel information for channels defined by that content curator. For example a channel information area displays channel information for a Rachel s Channel channel defined by a DJ Rachel content curator. The channel information area includes content representations and with respective associated content information and .

A user may use other controls of the user interface to browse for channels. For example a user may select a control to browse channel recommendations received from friend users. As another example the user may search for channels by one or more keywords using a search control .

Returning to the system displays preview content for the channels available on the content delivery network . Preview content may be for example a subset of a content file e.g. the first thirty seconds of a content file or the preview content may be different content than the corresponding content file. Preview content may be for example a movie trailer. A content curator may generate preview content for a content file or may associate a previously generated preview content file e.g. a movie trailer with a content file. Preview content may be retrieved for example from a content curator and channel database.

In the example of a user of the user interface may view preview content for example by selecting a content representation and e.g. the user may view the preview content by double clicking on a content representation and . The user may navigate to see other content representations using a navigation control . In response to the selection of a content representation and a media player application may appear e.g. in an area of the user interface or in another user interface and the preview content may be presented in the media player application.

Returning to the system enables subscription to a subset of the channels available on the content delivery network based on review of the preview content . For instance in the example of a user may subscribe to a channel after viewing preview content associated with channel content displayed in the channel area . For example the user may subscribe to a channel using a subscribe control . The user may subscribe to one or more channels and may generally subscribe to a subset of available channels based on user interest. The user may select a control to see a current list of channel subscriptions.

Returning to the system receives from the user an input indicating a subscription to a subset of the available channels on the content delivery network . For instance in the example of the user may select the control to subscribe to a channel. The user may browse to view channel information for other channels and may select the control again to subscribe to a different channel.

The system receives from the user user personalization of at least one of the subset of channels . For example the user may assign a channel number or a genre to a channel may add one or more content files to a channel or may delete one or more content files from a channel. As another example a user may associate metadata e.g. a channel description one or more content file descriptions with a channel. Personalization of channels is described in more detail below with respect to .

The system receives user input assigning a channel number to a channel subscribed to by a user . For example a user may assign a channel number to a channel using a user interface displayed on a user portal. illustrates an example user interface for configuring channels. The user interface includes an available channel area and a subscribed channels area . The available channel area displays information about an available channel such as a channel name e.g. William s Channel and content representations . William s Channel may have been displayed in the available channel area for example in response to the user selecting William s Channel from a list of channels displayed on a different user interface displayed previously to the display of the user interface or on an area of the user interface that is now hidden. In some implementations the available channel area displays more than one channel.

The subscribed channels area includes channel areas and . A channel area and includes a channel number and a set of content representations. If a channel number is unassigned the content representations in an associated channel area may be empty and the channel area may also otherwise indicate that the associated channel is available e.g. the channel area may be displayed in a different background color or the font used for an unassigned channel number may be different than the font used for an assigned channel number . The user may assign a channel number to a channel for example by selecting a channel name e.g. dragging the channel name e.g. by holding down a mouse or other pointing device and dropping the channel name onto a channel number displayed in a channel area and . For instance as shown a user assigns William s Channel to channel number two by dragging an icon representing William s Channel onto the channel area . In some implementations the user may drop the channel name anywhere in a channel area and .

In some implementations a default initial channel line up may be configured for a user. The default channel line up may vary for example based on the geographic location of the user or based on other user demographics or user settings e.g. a user s interests stated when a user first subscribes to the system . The subscribed channels area may upon first being displayed by the user display information for the channels included in the default channel line up. The user may customize the channels in the subscribed channel area as described above. As another example the user may remove a default or other channel from the subscribed channel area to unsubscribe from a channel.

As another example illustrates in a channel lineup that the user one user has assigned channel number one to the DJ Channel Two channel and channel number two to the DJ Channel One channel . As shown in a channel lineup the user two user has assigned channel number one to the DJ Channel Two channel and channel number two to the DJ Channel Four channel . A channel lineup for the user three user indicates that channel number one has been assigned to the DJ Channel Three channel .

Returning to the system receives user input assigning a genre to the channel subscribed to by the user . For instance in the example of the user may select a genre for a channel by selecting a channel area and corresponding to an assigned channel number and then selecting a genre e.g. Kids Movies from a genre control .

The system stores the assigned channel number and the assigned genre of the channel in a user database . For example in reference to the end user portal server may store the assigned channel number and the assigned genre in the end user database in association with the channel. In the example of the channel number personalizations for the user one user two and user three users may be stored in a user database .

The system makes the channel available to a media player downloader device associated with the user at the assigned channel number and the assigned genre . For example in reference to content associated with the channel may be downloaded to the media player device or the downloader device associated with the end user . Information indicating the assignment of the channel number and the genre of the channel may also be downloaded to the downloader device and may be transferred for example to the media player device in some implementations the media player and the downloader device are the same physical device .

Continuing the above example with reference to the end user may for example select a channel number using the remote control and in response the media player may be controlled to play the channel associated with the channel number and to present content associated with the channel on the television . As another example an electronic guide may be presented on the television which may include a listing of subscribed channels by genre. The user may navigate the electronic guide using the remote control may select a genre and may select a channel from a list of channels associated with the selected genre.

The system receives from a user user input adding one or more content files to a channel . The user may for example add one or more content files to a channel using a user interface displayed on an end user portal. For example illustrates an example user interface . The user interface includes an available channel area and a subscribed channels area . The available channel area displays information about an available channel such as a channel name e.g. William s Channel and content representations and .

In some examples the available channel area may be used to display content representations which represent content from a user s private collection. In these examples the user may serve as his or her own content curator and define a personal channel using the content from the user s private collection. The personal channel may include content files stored on a user s local storage unit e.g. local hard drive such as home videos music files from a personal collection personal photographs etc. The personal channel also may include content files stored on a user s network drive e.g. personal files stored in a user s portion of a storage service in the cloud or any generally available content files the user is able to access over a network. The user also may integrate content files from his or her private collection within channels defined by other content curators.

The subscribed channels area includes channel areas and . A channel area and includes a channel number and a set of content representations. The user may add a content file to a channel for example by selecting a content representation and and dragging and dropping the channel representation and onto a content representation displayed in a channel area and . For example illustrates the dropping of the content representation representing content file D onto a content representation included in the content area corresponding to channel .

A user may use the interface to add one or more content files to a channel defined by a content curator or to add one or more content files to a newly created channel to create a user defined channel. If the content representation is empty e.g. not associated with a content file before the dropping of the content representation the content representation may be modified to represent the content file D after the dropping of the content representation . If the content representation is currently representing a content file before the dropping of the content representation the dropping of the content representation may be interpreted as an insert action and a new content representation may be added to the content area e.g. without changing the content representation . For example a new content representation may be added between the content representation and a content representation with the newly added content representation representing content file D .

The user may make other modifications to content files in a channel such as deleting a content file from a channel or rearranging the content representations associated with the channel. The user may also add a content file which they had downloaded to their media player downloader device to a channel. For example the user may select a control and content representations corresponding to user downloaded content files may be displayed in the area . The user may select a content representation representing a downloaded content file and drag and drop the content representation onto a channel area and corresponding to a subscribed channel. As another example the user may select a control and content representations corresponding to content available through a content link may be displayed in the area . The user may select a content representation representing content available through a content link and drag and drop the content representation onto a channel area and corresponding to a subscribed channel and in response the content available through the content link may be downloaded to a media player downloader device associated with the user.

Returning to the system sets a personalized definition of the channel based on the received user input . For example a personalized definition may represent and indicate a user s content additions to and or content rearrangement of a channel.

The system stores the personalized definition of the channel in a user database . For example in reference to the end user portal server may store the personalized definition in the end user database in association with the channel and with the user.

The system makes the personalized definition of the channel available to a media player downloader device associated with the user . For example the personalized definition may be downloaded to a media player downloader device of the user and may be transferred for example to an associated media player device. If the user selects a channel e.g. using a remote control device the media player may access the personalized definition of the channel to determine which content to play e.g. to determine whether a content file added to a channel by a user should be played or to determine whether a content file added by a content curator during channel definition should be played .

Returning to the system identifies a user identity of the user . For example the user may be identified based on login information the user provided when logging in to an end user portal.

The system stores in a user database channel subscription information for the user identity based on the subset of channels to which the user subscribed and the user personalization . For example in reference to the end user portal server may store channel subscription information and user personalization in the end user database in association with the channel.

The system identifies a media player downloader device associated with the user identity . For example in reference to a media player downloader device associated with the user identity may be identified by querying the end user database with the user identity.

The system controls the media player downloader device based on the channel subscription information . For example in reference to the media player device or the downloader device may download content for each channel subscribed to by the end user . The end user may select a channel number corresponding to a subscribed channel using the remote control and the media player may be controlled to play the channel associated with the channel number and to present content associated with the channel on the television .

In the example of content associated with the user one user two and user three users may be downloaded to media player downloader storage areas respectively. For example the media player downloader storage area associated with the user one user includes content files and corresponding to content files A and B included in the subscribed channel and includes content file corresponding to content file C included in the subscribed channel . The media player downloader storage area associated with the user two user includes content file corresponding to content file C included in the subscribed channel and includes content file corresponding to content file F included in the subscribed channel . As another example the media player downloader storage area associated with the user three user includes content files and corresponding to content files D and E included in the subscribed channel .

Controlling a media player downloader device based on channel subscription information is described in more detail below with respect to . illustrates a process for controlling a media player downloader device. The operations of the process are described generally as being performed by the system . The operations of the process may be performed by one of the components of the system e.g. the server system or may be performed by a combination of the components of the system . In some implementations operations of the process may be performed by one or more processors included in one or more electronic devices.

The system retrieves from a user database channel links for channels subscribed to by a user . For example illustrates a system which includes an end user database . A download portal server may retrieve one or more channel links for channels subscribed to by a user from the end user database over a content delivery network . A channel link may be an address of a file which includes information on new or updated content available to subscribers of a channel. A channel link may be for example a link to an RSS Really Simple Syndication file.

The system identifies a media player downloader device associated with the user . For instance in the example of a media player downloader device may be identified. The media player downloader device may be identified for example by the download portal server querying the end user database using user identifying information to find an address or other identifying information of a media player downloader device mapped to the user identifying information.

The system sends the retrieved channel links to the identified media player downloader device . For instance in the example of the download portal server may establish a session with the media player downloader device . The session may be for example a SIP Session Initiated Protocol session. A SIP proxy server may be used to route the request to download the channel links to a server which is closer to the media player downloader device than the download portal server such as a SIP edge server .

The system controls the media player downloader device to monitor for updates to channel information for channels subscribed to by the user using the channel links . For instance in the example of the media player downloader device may periodically download an RSS file linked to by a channel link and may compare the downloaded RSS file to a previously downloaded RSS file associated with the channel link to determine whether the downloaded RSS file is different than the previously downloaded RSS file. Differences between the downloaded RSS file and the previously downloaded RSS file may indicate updates to channel information such as new or modified content links hot indices metadata or content preview files. When updates to the channel information are detected the media player downloader device downloads the updated channel information.

The system receives updates to a channel subscribed to by a user . For example an RSS file linked to by a channel link may be updated in response to updates made to a channel by a content curator. For example illustrates a system which includes a content curator portal . A content curator may use the content curator portal to update a channel e.g. add edit or delete a content file metadata hot index or content preview file . The updates to the channel may be stored in a content curator and channel database by a content curator portal server . For example updates to the channel may be described in an RSS file stored in the content curator and channel database and the RSS file may be made available through a channel link associated with the channel.

The system controls a media player downloader device to download updated channel information at a channel link that corresponds to the updated channel . In some implementations an updated RSS file associated with the channel link is sent to a media player downloader device in response to receiving updates to the updated channel. For instance in the example of the content curator portal server may send an updated RSS file to a media player downloader device . The media player downloader device also may access an updated RSS file directly from the content curator and channel database .

In some implementations the media player downloader device may periodically download an RSS file linked to by a channel link and may compare the downloaded RSS file to a previously downloaded RSS file associated with the channel link to determine whether the downloaded RSS file is different than the previously downloaded RSS file. Differences between the downloaded RSS file and the previously downloaded RSS file may indicate updates to channel information such as new or modified content links hot indices metadata or content preview files. In some implementations the updates to channel information may be sent from the content curator portal server to the media player downloader device in response to the storing of the updates to channel information in the content curator and channel database . In these implementations the content curator portal server sends the updates to channel information to the media player downloader device using an API or another communication mechanism.

Returning to the system controls the media player downloader device to download new content added to the updated channel based on the updated channel information . For instance in the example of the media player downloader device may retrieve one or more content links associated with new content files added to the updated channel from an RSS file linked to by a channel link. Each content link may be for example a link to Internet content e.g. a link to Internet streaming content or a link to a torrent file. If the content link is a link to a torrent file the torrent file may be downloaded and the torrent file may be used to download a content file from one or more BitTorrent clients included in one or more BitTorrent swarms .

If the content link is a link to streaming content the media player downloader device may determine whether the streaming content already exists in a content and directory database . If the streaming content exists in the content and directory database the media player downloader device may download a torrent file associated with the streaming content from the content and directory database and may use the downloaded torrent file to download the streaming content. If the streaming content does not exist in the content and directory database the media player downloader device may download the streaming content from a streaming website associated with the content link.

Returning to the system stores a download record in a user database to indicate that the media player downloader device has downloaded the new content added to the updated channel . For instance in the example of a download record associated with the media player downloader device may be stored in an end user database . A download record may include for example data values indicating a status e.g. complete in progress aborted a content file name a channel name a file size start and end times lapsed time and retry count.

The media player downloader device also is capable of streaming content in addition to downloading content. Accordingly streaming content may be included in a channel with downloaded content and the media player downloader device may seamlessly switch between outputting downloaded content and outputting streaming content. The media player downloader device further may store records that indicate when streaming content is accessed and outputted by the media player downloader device .

In addition to using the user interfaces described above with respect to and to personalize channel information a user may also personalize their system using a remote control device. For example a user may personalize channel information using one or more user interfaces displayed on a display screen of the remote control device. As another example the user may use a remote control device to control an interface displayed on a display screen e.g. television being output by a media player downloader device. A user may use an interface displayed on the display screen of the remote control device or an interface displayed on a television to for example delete a content file from a channel or to assign a channel number to a channel.

The user interfaces displayed on the display screen of the remote control device or on a television screen may offer a subset of functionality and may use different user interface controls and techniques as compared to more complex user interfaces such as the user interfaces and . The user interfaces and may be displayed for example on a desktop computer a laptop computer or another type of computing device such as part of a web application or another type of graphical user interface application.

The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

