---

title: Connection insights widget
abstract: Techniques for enhancing search results generated by a search engine are described. A first set of member profiles is identified, the first set of member profiles satisfying a search query initiated by a searcher. A second set of member profiles is identified, the second set of member profiles having a relationship between a profile of the searcher and each of the second set of member profiles. A subset of the second set of member profiles is selected based on strength of relationships between each of the subset of the second set of member profiles and the first set of member profiles. A portion of each of the first set of member profiles is communicated for presentation in a first region of a search results user interface and a portion of each of the subset of the second set of member profiles is communicated for presentation in a second region of the search results user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648131&OS=09648131&RS=09648131
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09648131
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140731
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing systems and information search engines. In one specific embodiment the present disclosure relates to supplementing search results with information pertaining to influential connections of a searcher.

Online social network services provide users with a mechanism for defining and memorializing in a digital format their relationships with other people and other entities e.g. companies schools etc. . This digital representation of real world. relationships and associations is frequently referred to as a social graph. There are a variety of web based applications and services that implement and maintain their own social graph and still more applications and or services that leverage the social graph of a third party social network service e.g. via publically available application programming interfaces or APIs . The number and variety of applications and services that leverage a social graph maintained by a social network service is seemingly endless. For instance a variety of messaging and content sharing applications leverage a social graph to establish user privileges for sharing content with or accessing the content of others.

In addition to maintaining a social graph many social network services maintain a variety of personal information about their members. For instance with many social network services when a user registers to become a member and or at various times subsequent to registering the member is prompted to provide a variety of personal or biographical information which may be displayed in a member s personal web page. Such information is commonly referred to as personal profile information or simply profile information and when shown collectively it is commonly referred to as a member s profile. For instance with some of the many social network services in use today the personal information that is commonly requested and displayed as part of a member s profile includes a person s age birthdays gender interests contact information residential address home town and or state the name of the person s spouse and or family members and so forth. With certain social network services such as some business or professional network services a member s personal information may include information commonly included in a professional resume or curriculum vitae such as information about a person s education the schools colleges or universities that the member attended the company at which a person is employed an industry in which a person is employed a job title or function an employment history skills possessed by a person professional organizations of which a person is a member and so on.

Because social network services are a rich source of information about people and their relationships with other people social network services are an extremely useful tool for performing certain tasks. For example just as a telephone directory phone book or white pages previously served as the go to source for basic information about people contemporary social network services serve as a far richer directory of people. Many people use social network services to search for member profiles of friends colleagues classmates and other people they may know or want to know. Accordingly many social network services provide a search engine to facilitate searching for the member profiles of members of the social network service. However because social network services have so many members finding one or more of the best search results corresponding to a search query is often difficult

The present disclosure describes methods systems and computer program products for enhancing search results corresponding to a search query. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without all of the specific details and or with variations permutations and combinations of the various features and elements described herein.

A recruiter who is searching for potential candidates to fill a job opening may perform various searches of a social networking system. For example if the recruiter is looking for candidates to fill a position having a title of Data Scientist the recruiter may submit a query that includes the keyword phrase data scientist The recruiter may then be presented with a list of search results including information pertaining to candidates having member profiles matching the keyword phrase. The list may be ordered based on various ranking criteria as is described in more detail below. However despite being presented with a ranked list of search results the recruiter may not know which of the results correspond to candidates who would be most likely to respond to a message from the recruiter pertaining to a job posting that the recruiter seeks to fill. Furthermore there may be additional potential candidates pertaining to the search query that would likely to respond to messages from the recruiter despite not being ranked highly in the search results. For example candidates not in a close social sphere of the recruiter and thus not as highly ranked as others but who are connected to other members who are within the close social sphere of the recruiter may be more likely to respond than others. Thus the recruiter would benefit from having additional insights into the search results based on such information maintained with respect to the social networking system.

In various embodiments when search results corresponding to a search query are presented to a searcher e.g. a recruiter additional information pertaining to the search results is presented to the searcher. This additional information may include for example information pertaining to connections of the searcher who know the most number of members corresponding to the search results. These connections may be identified to the searcher e.g. in a user interface region separate from the user interface region in which the search results are presented such as a connections insight widget as search results referrals or influential connections . Thus for example the searcher may be notified that a first connection of the searcher knows 15 of the members corresponding to the search result and a second connection of the searcher knows 7 members corresponding to the search result. The searcher may also be able to access the member profiles of these influential connections to identify additional potential candidates who may or may not have been ranked highly in the search results. Additionally the searcher may be able to reach out to the influential connections for more information pertaining to a subject matter of the search that the recruiter is conducting. In various embodiments influential connections specific to a set of search results may be identified by various factors including the number of connections each influential connection has to the members corresponding to the search results a reputation that the influential connection has on the social networking site e.g. a total number of connections of the influential connection an expertise that the influential connection has with respect to the subject matter of the search query e.g. as derived from a member profile of the influential member and so on. Such factors may be weighted based on their relevance to the searcher e.g. based on preferences of the searcher .

In various embodiments a first set of member profiles is identified the first set of member profiles satisfying a search query initiated by a searcher. A second set of member profiles is identified the second set of member profiles having a relationship between a profile of the searcher and each of the second set of member profiles. A subset of the second set of member profiles is selected based on strengths of relationships between each of the subset of the second set of member profiles and the first set of member profiles N portion of each of the first set of member profiles is communicated for presentation in a first region of a search results user interface and a portion of each of the subset of the second set of member profiles is communicated for presentation in a second region of the search results user interface. Other advantages and aspects of the present inventive subject matter will be readily apparent from the description of the figures that follows.

As shown in the front end consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client devices not shown may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including one or more databases for storing data relating to various entities represented in a social graph. With some embodiments these entities include members companies and or educational institutions among possible others. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service and at various times subsequent to initially registering the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title a description industry employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored as part of a member s member profile for example in the database with reference number . With some embodiments a member s profile data will include not only the explicitly provided data but also any number of derived or computed member profile attributes and or characteristics.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed. In addition to following another member a user may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation or some other entity. In general the associations and relationships that a member has with other members and other entities e.g. companies schools etc. become part of the social graph data maintained in a database . With some embodiments a social graph data structure may be implemented with a graph database which is a particular type of database that uses graph structures with nodes edges and properties to represent and store data. In this case the social graph data stored in database reflects the various entities that are part of the social graph as well as how those entities are related with one another.

With various alternative embodiments any number of other entities might be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities. For example although not shown in consistent with some embodiments the system may include additional databases for storing information relating to a wide variety of entities such as information concerning various online or offline groups job listings or postings photographs audio or video files and so forth.

With some embodiments the social network service may include one or more activity and or event tracking modules which generally detect various user related activities and or events and then store information relating to those activities events in the database with reference number . For example the tracking modules may identify when a user makes a change to some attribute of his or her member profile or adds a new attribute. Additionally a tracking module may detect the interactions that a member has with different types of content. Such information may be used for example by one or more recommendation engines to tailor the content presented to a particular member and generally to tailor the user experience for a particular member.

The application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various applications services and features of the social network service. For instance a messaging application such as an email application an instant messaging application or some hybrid or variation of the two may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Of course other applications or services may be separately embodied in their own application server modules .

The social network service may provide a broad range of applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. As such at least with some embodiments a photograph may be a property or entity included within a social graph. With some embodiments members of a social network service may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. Accordingly the data for a group may be stored in a database not shown . When a member joins a group his or her membership in the group will be reflected in the social graph data stored in the database with reference number . With some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments members of the social network service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members. With some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Here again membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of the different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modelled with the social graph data of the database with reference number .

In addition to the various application server modules the application logic layer includes a search engine . As illustrated in with some embodiments the search engine is implemented as a service that operates in conjunction with various application server modules . For instance any number of individual application server modules can invoke the functionality of the search engine . However with various alternative embodiments the search engine may be implemented as its own application server module such that it operates as a stand alone application. With some embodiments the search engine may include or have an associated publicly available application programming interface API that enables third party applications to invoke the functionality of the search engine . With some embodiments the search engine may be a people search engine and provide functionality to search for people e.g. member profiles specifically. Alternatively the search engine module may facilitate searching for any type of information entity e.g. people or member profiles companies schools and other educational institutions etc. that is maintained and used by the various applications of the social network system such as companies groups job listings etc. With such an embodiment the user performing the search may specify the type of entity to be searched for. Alternatively the search engine may algorithmically identify the type of search being performed for example based on the search query.

As described in greater detail below in general the search engine uses a ranking algorithm that boost or increases the ranking scores assigned to certain of the member profiles satisfying the search query when those member profiles share one or more particular attributes or characteristics in common with the member profile of the member performing the search. For example with some embodiments the ranking algorithm will increase the ranking score assigned to those member profiles satisfying the search query and having a profile attribute indicating the member is employed at the same company as the member performing the search. Accordingly if the member profile of the member performing the search indicates that the member is currently employed at ACME Products any member profile that satisfies the search query and also indicates that the member is employed at the same company that is ACME Products will have its ranking score adjusted upward or otherwise calculated or derived to reflect this shared member profile attribute. Accordingly with all else equal if two member profiles for two different persons with the same name e.g. John Doe differ in that one of the members is employed at the same company as the member performing the search and the other member is employed at some other company the member profile of the member employed at the same company as the searching member will be assigned the higher ranking score and thus be presented more prominently in a list of search results.

The search results ranking module derives for each search result e.g. member profile a ranking score representing a measure of relevance particularly in view of both the search query and the particular member who has invoked or initiated the search. With some embodiments the ranking algorithm may utilize any number of input signals for use in deriving a ranking score where one or more signals are combined in some way e.g. multiplied or added together to derive an overall ranking score. Consistent with embodiments of the invention at least one of those input signals or component scores represents the extent to which certain member profile attributes are shared in common between a member profile in the search results and the member profile of the member who has initiated or invoked the search. Accordingly when the query processing module identifies or selects the database records representing the member profiles that satisfy the search query certain member profile attributes may also be retrieved for the purpose of comparing those member profile attributes with the corresponding member profile attributes of the member who has initiated or invoked the search. Depending upon the particular member profile attributes in consideration a particular matching rule may be evaluated to determine the extent to which two members have similarity with respect to the particular member profile attribute.

With some embodiments the ranking module may have multiple ranking algorithms for use in generating ranking scores. Accordingly a particular ranking algorithm may be selected and used depending upon the type of search query that has been received or the specific member profile attributes that have been specified as part of the search query. For instance if the search query is determined to be a simple name search e.g. first and or last name a particular ranking algorithm for use with that type of search query might be selected and used to derive and assign ranking scores to the search results. However if the search query specifies a particular member profile attribute then a different ranking algorithm may be selected and used in deriving and assigning ranking scores. In general a ranking algorithm used by the ranking module may include any number of weighting factors which may vary depending upon the search query type and the specific member profile attribute types that have been specified as part of the search query. The following example is illustrative.

Presume for sake of an example that a member of the social network service residing in Detroit Mich. desires to reach out and make contact with a former college classmate known to now reside in Seattle Wash. The searching member generates a search query specifying both the first and last name of the college classmate and specifies as a search parameter the location Seattle Wash. Because the search query specifically indicates a geographical location that is different from the searcher s geographical location the ranking algorithm selected for use in deriving ranking scores for the search results should not promote or otherwise boost the relevance scores assigned to member profiles as a result of those member profiles indicating that a member lives in the same location i.e. Detroit Mich. as the member performing the search. Furthermore presume for a moment that the member residing Detroit attended college in Seattle Wash. Because the query has specified the geographical location Seattle Wash. and because the searching member attended college in Seattle Wash. those member profiles matching the query and specifying attendance or graduation from the same college as the searching member may be boosted in the search results ranking. For instance the ranking module may weight more heavily any member profile in which the member has indicated attendance at or graduation from the same university as the searching member. In essence by specifying a particular member profile attribute in this example a geographical location another member profile attribute e.g. college university attended is weighted more heavily in the ranking algorithm to reflect the presumed importance of a member profile that has as an attribute a college or university that is the same as the member performing the search.

Once the search result ranking module has generated and assigned to each search result a ranking score the search result enhancement module may perform additional actions to enhance the search results. For example as is described in more detail below the search result enhancement module may identify an additional set of member profiles having relevance to the search results such as member profiles corresponding to members having the most number of connections to the member profiles included in the search results. In this way the searcher may be able to gain additional insight into the search results such as by viewing a profile of one of the identified most influential connections of the searcher including information pertaining connections of this influential connection or reaching out to particular members who may have special knowledge pertaining to the search results 

The search results presentation module causes the search results to be presented arranged in order of their assigned ranking score in a user interface. For instance the user interface may be a search results page providing a simple list of at least a portion of the member profiles that satisfied the query. Alternatively in some instances the user interface may operate in conjunction with the query processing module and the search results ranking module to implement an incremental search technique whereby search results are presented while a member is typing in the search query. Such results may be presented for example in a drop down suggestion list or directly in a portion of a search results web page. Additionally in various embodiments the search results presentation module causes additional information pertaining to the search results to be presented e.g. in a separate portion of the search results web page such as a profile insights widget . For example the search results presentation module may present at least a portion of one or more additional member profiles corresponding to members of the social networking system who may have special knowledge pertaining to the search results e.g. as judged by a number of connections each of the additional member profiles have that correspond to the search results reputations of the additional members expertise of the additional members in the area of the search and so on as will be described in more detail

As illustrated in with some embodiments for each search query that is processed by the search engine the search engine will store resulting data in particular the search results that resulted from a particular search query and any user selections in a database . Once a sufficiently large data set for a particular period of time has been established a data analysis module is then used to identify the specific member profile attributes that are most highly correlated amongst the member profiles that are ultimately selected from a search results set and the member profile of the member who has invoked a particular search. In this manner the most highly correlated member profile attributes are identified and can be used in a ranking algorithm by the search results ranking module . With some embodiments the ranking algorithm may be implemented to weight the various member profile attributes used in the ranking algorithm based on the level of correlation as determined by the data analysis module . For example if the data shows that a searching member selects a member profile from the search results having a first member profile attribute e.g. geographic location of residence in common with his or her own member profile a particular percentage e.g. seventy five percent of the time and a second member profile attribute e.g. the company at which the member is employed in common with the searching member s profile some percentage of time lower than seventy five this information may be used to weight the significance of the two member profile attributes contribution to the overall ranking score. In any case the data analysis module is used to analyze historical search data for the purpose of identifying the member profile attributes that are the best input signals for the ranking algorithm.

At operation the search engine receives a search query from a searcher e.g. a member of the social network service initiating the search .

At operation the search engine identifies a first set of member profiles. This identification of the first set of member profiles is based on each of the first set of member profiles satisfying the search query e.g. based on any of the criteria discussed above . This first set of member profiles corresponds to a first set of members of the social networking service.

At operation the search engine identifies a second set of member profiles. This identification of the second set of member profiles is based on a strength of a relationship between each of the second set of member profiles and a member profile corresponding to the searcher. For example this second set of member profiles may be identified based on a determination that each of the second set of member profiles is connected e.g. as a first degree connection to the member profile of the searcher. This second set of member profiles corresponds to a second set of members of the social networking system.

At operation the search engine selects a subset of the second set of member profiles. This selection is based on strengths of relationships between each member profile of the subset of the second set of members and each member profile of the first set of member profiles. In various embodiments the strength of the relationship between each member profile of the subset of the second set of members and each member profile of the first set of member profiles is based on a number of connections each member profile of the second set of member profiles has to the first set of member profiles. In various embodiments the strength of the relationship may be based additionally or alternatively on any combination of weighted factors such as a reputation of the member in the second set of members an expertise of the member in the second set of members with respect to a subject matter of the search and so on. Thus in various embodiments connections of the searcher e.g. first degree connections are iterated over to identify a number of connections that each connection of the searcher has to members appearing in the search results. The connections of the searcher having the most connections to the search results are identified as the searcher s most influential connections with respect to the search results.

At operation the search engine communicates a portion of each of the first set of member profiles for presentation in a first region of a search results interface e.g. a search results region and a portion of each of the subset of the second set of the member profiles for presentation in a second region of the search results user interface e.g. a connections insight widget . Thus a searcher may not only be presented with search results satisfying a query submitted by the searcher but also information pertaining to a list of members of the social networking system that may provide additional insight into the search results that may not be apparent from the search results themselves. In various embodiments for example the searcher may be presented with information pertaining to a particular number of members e.g. two members of the social networking system most likely to have special knowledge pertaining to the member profiles of the members of the social networking system that are included in the search results. Such information may include information pertaining to connections that each of the two members has to each of the members included in the search results. The searcher may infer then that the connections of the two members may have special relevance to the search results regardless of whether the connections of the two members appear in the search results themselves. Additionally the searcher may identify the two members as potential contacts that the searcher may reach out to for more information that is specific to the search results.

At operation the search engine receives a search query initiated by a searcher. At operation a first set of member profiles is identified. In various embodiments the first set of member profiles is identified based on the first set of member profiles satisfying the search query.

At operation the search engine identifies a second set of member profiles. In various embodiments the second set of member profiles is identified based on a relevance of the second set of member profiles to the first set of member profiles independently of whether the second set of member profiles satisfy the search query. For example in various embodiments each of the second set of member profiles may be identified based on a combination of various factors such as whether the member profile is connected to a profile of the searcher whether the member profile corresponds to an expert in a subject area pertaining to the query whether the member profile is connected with member profiles satisfying the query and so on.

At operation for each member of the second set of members the search engine calculates a number of connections between the member and the first set of members.

At operation the search engine selects a subset of the second set of members based on the number of connections between each member of the second set of members and the first set of members. For example the search engine selected a predetermined number of the second set of members having the highest number of connections to the first set of members 

At operation the search engine communicates at least a portion of the subset of the second set of members for presentation to the searcher in conjunction with a presentation of search results corresponding to the query.

At operation the search engine receives a search query submitted by a searcher. At operation the search engine identifies a first set of member profiles. In various embodiments this first set of member profiles is a predetermined number of member profiles that satisfy the search query e.g. the top 25 member profiles satisfying the query based on the ranking criteria. 

At operation the search engine identifies a second set of member profiles. In various embodiments the second set of member profiles is an additional number of member profiles that satisfy the search query in addition to the member profiles identified at operation . For example the second set of member profiles may be the member profiles ranked 26 50 based on an application of the rankings criteria.

At operation the search engine identifies a third set of member profiles. In various embodiments the third set of member profiles is identified based on any combination of a correspondence between a member profile of the searcher member profiles of the first set of members member profiles of the second set of members and member profiles of the third set of member profiles. The correspondence may be identified based on strengths of relationships between the profiles such as degrees of connections. Or the correspondence may be identified based on relevance of the profiles to each other based on an application of ranking criteria independent of whether the member profiles satisfy the search query.

At operation the search engine communicates at least a portion of each of the first set of member profiles for presentation as search results corresponding to the query and at least a portion of each of the third set of member profiles for presentation as referrals corresponding to the search results. Thus a superset of a predetermined number of member profiles satisfying the query may be used to identify additional member profiles corresponding to members who may have special knowledge pertaining to the search results.

The various operations of the example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software instructions or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and Objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects 

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least sonic of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs 

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific examples it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

