---

title: Scan cell assignment
abstract: One or more systems and methods for scan cell assignment for a design layout of a semiconductor arrangement are provided. The design layout is evaluated to identify a set of sequential cells, such as flip flops connected to circuitry by data paths. Sequential cells within the set of sequential cells are assigned to either a scan cell assignment or a non-scan cell assignment based upon a control path criterion, a register bank criterion, a pipeline depth criterion, a sequential loop criterion, or other criteria to create a cell assignment list. Scan paths are connected to sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment so that test patterns can be sent to and received from such sequential cells during testing of the semiconductor arrangement for defects. Power, performance, and area utilization are improved because at least some sequential cells are assigned to the non-scan cell assignment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495495&OS=09495495&RS=09495495
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09495495
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140403
---
Many semiconductor arrangements comprise numerous sequential cells such flip flops that are connected to circuitry such as logic structures by data paths. A full scan scheme is used to test a semiconductor arrangement for design defects and processing defects. In a full scan scheme scan paths are connected to the sequential cells so that a test scan pattern can be directly provided to the sequential cells as opposed to being provided through data paths that otherwise increase computational overhead because the effect of circuitry on the test scan pattern is taken into account. The full scan scheme provides relatively high test coverage because the test scan pattern is directly input into sequential cells. However connecting additional scan paths to sequential cells for the full scan increases power consumption decreases performance and increases area overhead.

The following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the provided subject matter. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. For example the formation of a first feature over or on a second feature in the description that follows may include embodiments in which the first and second features are formed in direct contact and may also include embodiments in which additional features may be formed between the first and second features such that the first and second features may not be in direct contact. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

Further spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. The spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. The apparatus may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein may likewise be interpreted accordingly.

One or more systems and techniques for scan cell assignment for a design layout are provided. The design layout describes a semiconductor arrangement such as a set of sequential cells associated with the semiconductor arrangement. Sequential cells of the semiconductor arrangement are assigned to either a scan cell assignment or a non scan cell assignment. If a sequential cell is assigned to the scan cell assignment then a scan path providing direct access to the sequential cell for defect testing is connected to the sequential cell. If a sequential cell is assigned to the non scan cell assignment then no scan path is connected to the sequential cell and thus the sequential cell is merely connected to other circuitry of the semiconductor arrangement by one or more data paths. In some embodiments a sequential cell is assigned based upon a control path criterion specifying that sequential cells within a control path are to be assigned to the scan cell assignment. In some embodiments a sequential cell is assigned based upon a register bank criterion specifying that if a register bank comprises at least one sequential cell that is a non scan cell assignment candidate then sequential cells within the register bank are to be assigned to the non scan cell assignment. In some embodiments a sequential cell is assigned based upon a pipeline depth criterion specifying that a reduced non scan cell assignment is to be used for assigning sequential cells of a pipeline. In some embodiments a sequential cell is assigned based upon a sequential loop criterion specifying that at least one sequential cell of a structural sequential loop is to be assigned to the scan cell assignment. In this way sequential cells are assigned based upon a partial scan scheme that provides adequate test coverage of sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment having additional scan paths for testing while improving performance power and area due to sequential cells assigned to the non scan cell assignment lacking additional scan paths for testing.

A method of scan cell assignment for a design layout is illustrated in . A semiconductor arrangement comprises one or more circuitry arrangements such a logic gate an adder a NAD gate a NOR gate or other logic structure that are connected by sequential cells such as flip flops along data paths. At a design layout for the semiconductor arrangement is evaluated to identify a set of sequential cells associated with the semiconductor arrangement. In some embodiments the design layout is evaluated by a synthesis process that generates a gate level netlist that identifies the set of sequential cells.

The set of sequential cells are assigned to either a scan cell assignment or a non scan cell assignment based upon various criteria and thresholds. If a sequential cell is assigned to the scan cell assignment then a scan path is connected to the sequential cell so that a test scan pattern can be directly provided to the sequential cell for testing. If a sequential cell is assigned to the non scan cell assignment then no additional scan path is connected to the sequential cell which improves power performance and area of the semiconductor arrangement. In some embodiments the set of sequential cells are assigned based upon a non scan cell threshold corresponding to a number or percentage of sequential cells that are to be assigned to the non scan cell assignment such as 45 of sequential cells or any other number or percentage.

The set of sequential cells are assigned based upon at least one of a control path criterion a register bank criterion a pipeline depth criterion or a sequential loop criterion. At control signal sequential cells within the set of sequential cells are assigned to the scan cell assignment based upon a control path criterion to generate an initial cell assignment. A control signal sequential cell comprises a sequential cell that is configured to store a control signal such as a signal used to control a multiplexer as opposed to a data signal. The control path criterion specifies that if a sequential cell is a control signal sequential cell then the sequential cell is to be assigned to the scan cell assignment. Control signal sequential cells are assigned to the scan cell assignment so that additional scan paths are connected to the control signal sequential cells. In this way relevant data path logic gates and sequential cells could be chosen to be tested with the semiconductor arrangement by sending test scan patterns to the control signal sequential cells through the scan paths.

At unassigned sequential cells within the set of sequential cell are assigned to either the scan cell assignment or the non scan cell assignment based upon at least one of a register bank criterion a pipeline depth criterion or a sequential loop criterion to update the initial cell assignment list to create a cell assignment list. In some embodiments of applying the register bank criterion a register bank comprising a sequential cell grouping of the set of sequential cells is identified. In some embodiments the sequential cell grouping corresponds to a logical grouping of sequential cells such as sequential cells used to form an adder circuit to bit cells or other logic component. Responsive to identifying at least one sequential cell within the sequential cell grouping as being a non scan cell assignment candidate unassigned sequential cells within the sequential cell grouping are assigned to the non scan cell assignment based upon the register bank criterion. Assigning sequential cells within the sequential cell grouping to the same assignment such as the non scan cell assignment results in similar pipeline depths for pipelines of sequential cells and circuitry arrangement of the semiconductor arrangement which decreases complexity for generating test scan patterns and isolating defects.

In some embodiments of applying the pipeline depth criterion a pipeline comprising one or more sequential cells and one or more circuitry arrangements is identified. A starting sequential cell which lacks an assignment of the pipeline is assigned to the scan cell assignment. An ending sequential cell which lacks an assignment of the pipeline is assigned to the scan cell assignment. One or more unassigned sequential cells between the starting sequential cell and the ending sequential cell are assigned to the non scan cell assignment according to a reduced non scan cell assignment specified by the pipeline depth criterion. Reducing the depth of non scan sequential cells between scan sequential cells within pipelines such as merely a single non sequential cell between scan sequential cells reduces complexity for managing test scan patterns and isolating defects.

In some embodiments of applying the sequential loop criterion a structural sequential loop is identified within the design layout. In some embodiments the structural sequential loop corresponds to a data path from a sequential cell to prior circuitry in a pipeline. At least one unassigned sequential cell within the structural sequential loop is assigned to the scan cell assignment based upon the sequential loop criterion. In this way the test scan pattern is input into at least one sequential cell so that a deterministic pattern from the test scan pattern is used to initialize the structural sequential loop.

In some embodiments a violation of the cell assignment list is identified such as a violation of the non scan cell threshold where a number of sequential cells assigned to the non scan cell assignment do not satisfy the non scan cell threshold. The non scan cell threshold is adjusted such as increased or decreased based upon a current sequential cell assignment of sequential cells of the semiconductor arrangement to create an adjusted non scan cell threshold. At least one sequential cell assignment within the cell assignment list is adjusted such as a reassignment of a sequential cell to the scan cell assignment or the non scan cell assignment based upon the adjust non scan cell threshold.

In some embodiments the cell assignment list is evaluated based upon a test coverage threshold metric corresponding to a threshold number of sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment. In some embodiments the test coverage threshold metric is not satisfied if the cell assignment list does not comprise a threshold number of sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment. Responsive to the cell assignment list not satisfying the test coverage threshold metric the non scan cell threshold is adjusted such as decreased so that additional sequential cells are reassigned to the scan cell threshold. At least one sequential cell assignment within the cell assignment list is adjusted based upon the adjusted non scan cell threshold.

In some embodiments the semiconductor arrangement is generated based upon the design layout such that scan paths are connected to sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment and no scan paths are connected to sequential cells assigned to the non scan cell assignment. The semiconductor arrangement is tested for defects by sending an input pattern through scan paths to sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment. An output pattern is received from the sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment. The output pattern is compared to an expected pattern to identify at least one of a design defect or a processing defect for the semiconductor arrangement.

Unassigned sequential cells are evaluated by a non scan cell threshold analysis where unassigned sequential cells are assigned to either the scan cell assignment or a non scan cell assignment based upon a non scan cell threshold . In some embodiments the non scan cell threshold specifies that a percentage such as 40 of sequential cells of the semiconductor arrangement as to be assigned to the non scan cell assignment. In this way unassigned cells are assigned based upon the non scan cell threshold and at least one of a register bank criterion a pipeline depth criterion or a sequential loop criterion to create a cell assignment list . The cell assignment list comprises an assignment of sequential cells to either the scan cell assignment or the non scan cell assignment. If a violation of the non scan cell threshold is detected then the non scan cell threshold is adjusted for reassignment of one or more sequential cells.

In some embodiments scan chain assignment is performed to group sequential cells into one or more scan chains based upon at least one of the cell assignment list or the gate level netlist . A scan chain comprises one or more sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment that are operatively coupled together. Test coverage analysis is performed based upon at least one of the one or more scan chains or the cell assignment list to determine whether a test coverage threshold metric is satisfied. If the test coverage threshold metric is not satisfied such as the cell assignment list not comprising at least a threshold number of sequential cell assigned to the scan cell assignment the non scan cell threshold is adjusted for reassignment of one or more sequential cells. In some embodiments the non scan cell threshold is decreased so that one or more sequential cells are reassigned from the non scan cell assignment to the scan cell assignment to improve test coverage. A testing component is configured to test the semiconductor arrangement by sending an input pattern through scan paths to sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment. The testing component is configured to receive an output pattern from the sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment. The testing component is configured to compare the output pattern to an expected pattern to identify at least one of a design defect or a processing defect for the semiconductor arrangement.

The assignment component is configured to identify one or more control signal sequential cells such as a first control signal sequential cell a second control signal sequential cell and a third control signal sequential cell of the unassigned design a layout . In some embodiments the first control signal sequential cell is identified based upon the first control signal sequential cell providing a control signal to the first circuitry the second control signal sequential cell is identified based upon the second control signal sequential cell providing a control signal to the second circuitry and the third control signal sequential cell is identified based upon the third control signal sequential cell providing a control signal to the third circuitry . The assignment component assigns the first control signal sequential cell to the scan cell assignment based upon the control path criterion resulting in a first scan sequential cell of an assigned design layout . The assignment component assigns the second control signal sequential cell to the scan cell assignment based upon the control path criterion resulting in a second scan sequential cell of the assigned design layout . The assignment component assigns the third control signal sequential cell to the scan cell assignment based upon the control path criterion resulting in a third scan sequential cell of the assigned design layout . In this way scan paths such as a first scan path a second scan path and a third scan path are connected to the first scan sequential cell the second scan sequential cell and the third scan sequential cell so that a test scan pattern is directly provided to the first scan sequential cell the second scan sequential cell and the third scan sequential cell without going through the previous functional sequential cells which otherwise results in computational overhead for identification and isolation of a defect.

The assignment component is configured to identify one or more register banks comprising sequential cell groupings. In some embodiments the assignment component identifies a first register bank comprising the first sequential cell the second sequential cell the third sequential cell and the fourth sequential cell . The assignment component identifies a second register bank comprising the fifth sequential cell the sixth sequential cell the seventh sequential cell and the eighth sequential cell . The assignment component identifies a third register bank comprising the ninth sequential cell the tenth sequential cell the eleventh sequential cell and the twelfth sequential cell . The assignment component identifies a fourth register bank comprising the thirteen sequential cell the fourteenth sequential cell the fifteenth sequential cell and the sixteenth sequential cell . In some embodiments a sequential cell grouping corresponds to a logical structure such as an adder a circuit to bit cells etc.

The assignment component determines that the eighth sequential cell of the second register bank is a non scan cell assignment candidate. Accordingly the assignment component assigns the fifth sequential cell the sixth sequential cell the seventh sequential cell and the eighth sequential cell to the non scan cell assignment. The assignment component determines that the ninth sequential cell of the third register bank is a non scan cell assignment candidate. Accordingly the assignment component assigns the ninth sequential cell the tenth sequential cell the eleventh sequential cell and the twelfth sequential cell to the non scan cell assignment. In some embodiments the assignment component assigns sequential cells of the first register bank and sequential cells of the fourth register bank to the scan cell assignment such that scan paths are connected to the sequential cells such as a first scan path connected to the fourth sequential cell and a second scan path connected to the sixteenth sequential cell . This is way an assigned design layout is generated so that sequential cells assigned to the scan cell assignment are used for defect testing of the semiconductor arrangement.

In some embodiments the assignment component assigns the first sequential cell to the scan cell assignment based upon identifying the first sequential cell as a starting sequential cell. The assignment component assigns the third sequential cell to the scan cell assignment based upon identifying the third sequential cell as an ending sequential cell. The assignment component assigns the second sequential cell to the non scan assignment based upon a reduced non scan cell assignment specified by the pipeline depth criterion such that a reduced number of sequential cells between the starting sequential cell and the ending sequential cell are assigned to the no scan cell assignment. In some embodiments the assignment component assigns the fifth sequential cell to the scan cell assignment and assigns the fourth sequential cell to the non scan cell assignment based upon the reduced non scan cell assignment specified by the pipeline depth criterion such that a reduced number of sequential cells between starting sequential cells and ending sequential cells are assigned to the non scan cell assignment. In this way an assigned design layout comprising pipelines having reduced depths of sequential cells assigned to non scan cell assignment is generated.

In some embodiments the assignment component identifies a structural sequential loop comprising a sixth sequential cell a seventh sequential cell and an eighth sequential cell that provide a data path from the fourth circuitry to the second circuitry . The assignment component assigns at least one sequential cell within the structural sequential loop to the scan cell assignment such as the eighth sequential cell based upon the sequential loop criterion resulting in an assigned design layout

In this way sequential cells are assigned to either a scan cell assignment or a non scan cell assignment based upon a variety of criteria. Such assignments improve power performance and area because at least some sequential cells are assigned to the non scan cell assignment which reduces the amount of scan paths added to the semiconductor arrangement. Defect testing coverage is only slightly reduced because at least proper sequential cells are assigned to the scan cell assignment so that additional scan paths are provided for testing the semiconductor arrangement.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment 700 the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for scan cell assignment for a design layout is provided. The method comprises evaluating a design layout for a semiconductor arrangement to identify a set of sequential cells associated with the semiconductor arrangement. Control signal sequential cells within the set of sequential cells are assigned to a scan cell assignment based upon a control path criterion to generate an initial cell assignment list. Unassigned sequential cells within the set of sequential cells are assigned to either the scan cell assignment or a non scan cell assignment based upon at least one of a register bank criterion a pipeline criterion or a sequential loop criterion to update the initial cell assignment list to create a cell assignment list.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for scan cell assignment for a design layout is provided. The system comprises an assignment component configured to evaluate a design layout for a semiconductor arrangement to identify a set of sequential cells associated with the semiconductor arrangement. The assignment component is configured to assign sequential cells within the set of sequential cells to either a scan cell assignment or a non scan cell assignment based upon at least one of a control path criterion a register bank criterion a pipeline depth criterion or a sequential loop criterion to create a cell assignment list.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for scan cell assignment for a design layout is provided. The method comprises evaluating a design layout for a semiconductor arrangement to identify a set of sequential cells associated with the semiconductor arrangement. Sequential cells within the set of sequential cells are assigned to either a scan cell assignment or a non scan cell assignment based upon at least one of a control path criterion a register bank criterion a pipeline depth criterion or a sequential loop criterion to create a cell assignment list.

The foregoing outlines features of several embodiments so that those skilled in the art may better understand the aspects of the present disclosure. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that they may readily use the present disclosure as a basis for designing or modifying other processes and structures for carrying out the same purposes and or achieving the same advantages of the embodiments introduced herein. Those skilled in the art should also realize that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

