---

title: System, apparatus, and procedure for providing route suggestions
abstract: An apparatus or web server for assisting a user in selecting a route based on tracked popularity of routes traveled by other users and a desired user activity. The apparatus may include a memory for receiving and storing route data for routes previously traveled by a plurality of users and a processing device coupled with the memory for receiving desired route characteristic information from the user, including a desired activity type, such as running or cycling. The processing device may compare the desired route characteristics information with the route data, suggest at least one of the stored routes to the user based on the comparison, and visually indicate with a color-coded heat map a popularity of the routes suggested based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09255807&OS=09255807&RS=09255807
owner: Garmin Switzerland GmbH
number: 09255807
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20140312
---
The present application claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 792 704 entitled Heat Map of Frequently Traveled Paths filed Mar. 15 2013 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Runners and cyclists frequently use fitness watches and other electronic devices to track distance time speed and the like as well as to record their traveled routes for future reference. Data gathered by these devices is often reviewed by the user and shared with others.

Runners and cyclists frequently desire to find new routes suitable for running cycling and other activities. Runners and cyclists may prefer to run or bike on routes that are frequently traveled by others or avoid such frequently traveled routes. Users may also prefer to travel along routes that have been previously traveled by other users having equipment that is similar to the user s equipment. Though some existing software and handheld devices will identify and suggest a path to travel that is suitable for user workouts based on fitness criteria and or geographic locations provided by the user these existing technologies do not take the activities of other users into consideration when identifying a path for travel.

Embodiments of the present technology provide a web server or other apparatus for displaying and suggesting routes based on popularity of previously traveled routes and various other collected criteria corresponding with a user s desired route characteristic information which may include selections and user profiles. This functionality enables enhanced situational awareness and increased confidence in suggested routes for users who prefer popular frequently traveled routes or privacy for users who prefer to avoid heavily traveled routes.

Embodiments of the present technology provide a web server or other apparatus for providing route information to users via the Internet or other communications medium. The apparatus broadly includes computer readable memory and a processing device coupled with the memory. The memory may receive and store route data for a plurality of routes previously traveled by runners bikers and other users. The stored route data may include geographic locations of points along the routes information relating to the number of times or how frequently users traveled through geographic locations associated with the routes activity types associated with each of the routes and dimensions corresponding to equipment used when the route was traveled. The processing device may display information about at least some of the stored routes and suggest one or more routes to users based on a comparison of the stored route data with one or more desired route characteristic information. In one embodiment the processing device receives desired route characteristic information from a user such as a desired activity type and compares the desired route characteristic information with the stored route data to suggest at least one of the stored routes to the user based on the comparison. The processing device may also visually indicate a popularity of the stored and or suggested routes with a color coded heat map.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other aspects and advantages of the present technology will be apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments and the accompanying drawing figures.

The drawing figures do not limit the present invention to the specific embodiments disclosed and described herein. The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the technology.

The following detailed description of the technology references the accompanying drawings that illustrate specific embodiments in which the technology can be practiced. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the technology in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the technology. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present technology. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present technology is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

In this description references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments mean that the feature or features being referred to are included in at least one embodiment of the technology. Separate references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments in this description do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and are also not mutually exclusive unless so stated and or except as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description. For example a feature structure act etc. described in one embodiment may also be included in other embodiments but not necessarily included. Thus the present technology can include a variety of combinations and or integrations of the embodiments described herein.

Embodiments of the present technology provide a web server or other apparatus that stores data associated with a plurality of routes previously traveled by a plurality of runners bikers or other users and suggests one or more stored routes to users based on a comparison of the stored route data with desired route characteristic information. The stored route data may include geographic locations of points along the routes the number of times each of the routes was traveled by the plurality of users and an indication of an activity type e.g. running cycling boating skating etc. . An indication of a popularity of a route and or geographic locations associated with a route may be provided on a display device. Conventional electronic devices and associated software programs enable a user to identify a route to travel based on fitness criteria and discrete geographic locations e.g. geographic coordinates that the user is interested in passing through. However such conventional software programs do not suggest routes based on the popularity of a geographic location or stored route.

Runners and cyclists may prefer to run or bike along routes that are traveled frequently by others or avoid such frequently traveled routes. For example a user may desire to run or bike through geographic locations that have been previously traveled by other users. Users may also prefer to run or bike along routes that have been previously traveled by other users having equipment that is similar to the user s equipment. Similar preferences may be shared by users that will boat roller skate roller blade or skate board along a route. Thus it may be desirable to suggest stored travel routes to users based on a comparison of desired route characteristic information with stored route data which includes information relating to the number of times or how frequently users traveled a stored route or passed through geographic locations associated with a route.

The apparatus or web server may store route data received from multiple users and compare this information with a user s desired route characteristic information such as desired activity type and various other preferences to suggest at least one of the stored routes to the user. Based on this comparison one or more routes of the plurality of stored routes may be suggested to the user and displayed on an electronic device of the user. For example the one or more stored routes that are suggested to the user may be displayed on the user s electronic device in a color coded heat map or in an ordered listing of the suggested routes such that the user may easily identify stored routes best suited for the user s desired route characteristic information. In embodiments the heat map may associate a distinguishable color with geographic locations associated with a stored route to indicate a frequency at which the geographic locations associated with the stored routes have been previously traveled.

Embodiments of the technology will now be described in more detail with reference to the drawing figures. illustrates an exemplary computer and communication system that may be used to implement aspects of the technology discussed herein. The system includes a web server or other electronic apparatus having a processing device and memory as well as one or more computer programs for operating components of the system . The apparatus may be accessed by one or more electronic devices A B C D via a communications network or a wireless network .

The apparatus receives stores and provides access to the data and information described herein. The apparatus may also implement one or more computer programs for performing some of the functions described herein and may provide a course file or a web based portal that can be accessed by the electronic devices A B C D and other such electronic devices. In some embodiments the apparatus may reside in a personal computer or server that is accessible by remote users via the Internet or other wired or wireless communication techniques. Embodiments of the apparatus may include one or more servers running Windows LAMP Linux Apache HTTP server MySQL and PHP Perl Python Java AJAX NT Novel Netware Unix or any other software system. The apparatus includes or has access to computer memory such as the memory and other hardware such as the processing device and software for receiving storing accessing and transmitting information as described below. The apparatus may also include conventional web hosting operating software searching algorithms an Internet connection and is assigned a URL and corresponding domain name so that it can be accessed via the Internet in a conventional manner. In other embodiments the apparatus may be a personal computer laptop or any computing device operable to store information and execute software or computer codes associated with the procedures described herein.

The processing device provides processing functionality for the apparatus and may include any number of processors microcontrollers or other processing systems and resident or external memory for storing data and other information accessed or generated by the apparatus . The processing device may execute one or more software programs that implement the techniques and modules described herein. The processing device is not limited by the materials from which it is formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein and as such may be implemented via semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs and so forth.

The memory is an example of device readable storage media that provides storage functionality to store various data associated with the operation of the computer system such as the software program and code segments mentioned above or other data to instruct the processing device and other elements of the computer system to perform the techniques described herein. Although a single memory is shown a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed. The memory may be integral with the processing device stand alone memory or a combination of both. The memory may include for example removable and non removable memory elements such as RAM ROM Flash e.g. SD Card mini SD card micro SD Card magnetic optical USB memory devices and so forth.

The memory of the web server or other electronic apparatus receives and stores route data for a plurality of routes taken by a plurality of users of electronic devices A B C D as illustrated in as stored route data . The memory may also include desired route characteristic information from the user which may be a desired activity type e.g. running cycling boating skating etc. desired geographic area type of electronic device the user intends to use while traveling a route the dimensions corresponding to equipment of the user or selection of another user who has provided route data. Memory may also include comparison data determined based on a comparison of the stored route data and the desired route characteristic information as described in detail below.

The electronic devices A B C D may be any computing devices used by users for sending and or receiving route data and other information described herein. The electronic devices A B C D may be desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers portable navigation devices PND mobile phones personal digital assistants fitness tracking devices multimedia devices media players game devices combinations thereof and so forth. In particular embodiments the devices A B C D may include for example a cycle computer a sport watch a golf computer a smart phone providing fitness or sporting applications apps a hand held GPS device used for hiking and so forth. Each personal computing device A B C D preferably includes or can access an Internet browser and a conventional Internet connection such as a wireless broadband connection DSL converter or ISDN converter so that it can exchange data with the computer system via the communications network . One or more of the devices A B C D may also exchange data with another one of the devices A B C D via a wired or wireless data link as illustrated. For example a fitness watch A may be operable to interface with a laptop B to send and receive route information and user characteristics as described herein.

The communications network may be the Internet or any other communications network such as a local area network a wide area network or an intranet. The communications network may include or be in communication with a wireless network capable of supporting wireless communications such as the wireless networks operated by AT T Verizon or Sprint. The wireless network may include conventional switching and routing equipment. The communications network and wireless network may also be combined or implemented with several different networks.

The networks and described above are representative of a variety of different communication pathways and network connections which may be employed individually or in combinations to communicate among the components of the system . Thus the networks and may be representative of communication pathways achieved using a single network or multiple networks. Further the networks and are representative of a variety of different types of networks and connections that are contemplated including but not limited to the Internet an intranet a satellite network a cellular network a mobile data network wired and or wireless connections and so forth.

Examples of wireless networks include but are not limited to networks configured for communications according to one or more standard of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE such as 802.11 or 802.16 Wi Max standards Wi Fi standards promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance Bluetooth standards promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so on. Wired communications are also contemplated such as through universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth.

The components of the system illustrated and described herein are merely examples of equipment that may be used to implement embodiments of the present invention and may be replaced with other equipment without departing from the scope of the present invention. Some of the illustrated components of the system may also be combined and or omitted.

Embodiments of the present technology may also comprise one or more computer programs stored in or on computer readable medium residing on or accessible by the computer system or the electronic devices A B C D. The computer programs may comprise listings of executable instructions for implementing logical functions in the processing device and or the electronic devices A B C D and can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium such as the memory for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this application a computer readable medium can be any non transitory means that can contain store or communicate the programs. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electro magnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific although not inclusive examples of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disk read only memory CDROM .

In the mobile electronic device C is illustrated as including a processor and a memory . The processor provides processing functionality for the mobile electronic device C and may include any number of processors microcontrollers or other processing systems and resident or external memory for storing data and other information accessed or generated by the mobile electronic device C. The processor may execute one or more software programs that implement the techniques and modules described herein. The processor is not limited by the materials from which it is formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein and as such may be implemented via semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs and so forth.

The memory is an example of device readable storage media that provides storage functionality to store various data associated with the operation of the mobile electronic device C such as the software program and code segments mentioned above or other data to instruct the processor and other elements of the mobile electronic device C to perform the techniques described herein. Although a single memory is shown a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed. The memory may be integral with the processor stand alone memory or a combination of both. The memory may include for example removable and non removable memory elements such as RAM ROM Flash e.g. SD Card mini SD card micro SD Card magnetic optical USB memory devices and so forth.

The mobile electronic device C is further illustrated as including functionality to determine its geographic location. For example mobile electronic device C may receive signal data transmitted by one or more position data platforms and or position data transmitters examples of which are depicted as the GPS satellites in . More particularly mobile electronic device C may include a position determining module as illustrated in that may manage and process signal data received from Global Positioning System GPS satellites via a GPS receiver . The position determining module is representative of functionality operable to determine a geographic position through processing of the received signal data . The signal data may include various data suitable for use in position determination such as timing signals ranging signals ephemerides almanacs and so forth.

Position determining module may also be configured to provide a variety of other position determining functionality. Position determining functionality for purposes of discussion herein may relate to a variety of different navigation techniques and other techniques that may be supported by knowing one or more positions. For instance position determining functionality may be employed to provide position location information timing information speed information and a variety of other navigation related data. Accordingly the position determining module may be configured in a variety of ways to perform a wide variety of functions. For example the position determining module may be configured for outdoor navigation vehicle navigation aerial navigation e.g. for airplanes helicopters marine navigation personal use e.g. as a part of fitness related equipment and so forth. Accordingly the position determining module may include a variety of devices to determine position using one or more of the techniques previously described.

The position determining module for instance may use signal data received via the GPS receiver in combination with map data that is stored in the memory and or otherwise received by the mobile electronic device C to generate navigation instructions e.g. turn by turn instructions to an input destination or POI show a current position on a map and so on. Position determining module may include one or more antennas to receive signal data as well as to perform other communications such as communication via one or more networks described herein. The position determining module may also provide other position determining functionality such as to determine an average speed calculate an arrival time and so on.

Although a GPS system is described and illustrated in relation to it should be apparent that a wide variety of other positioning systems may also be employed such as other global navigation satellite systems GNSS terrestrial based systems e.g. wireless phone based systems that broadcast position data from cellular towers wireless networks that transmit positioning signals and so on. For example positioning determining functionality may be implemented through the use of a server in a server based architecture from a ground based infrastructure through one or more sensors e.g. gyros odometers and magnetometers use of dead reckoning techniques and so on.

The mobile electronic device C includes a display to display information to a user of the mobile electronic device C. In embodiments the display may comprise an LCD Liquid Crystal Diode display a TFT Thin Film Transistor LCD display an LEP Light Emitting Polymer or PLED Polymer Light Emitting Diode display and so forth configured to display text and or graphical information such as a graphical user interface. The display may be backlit via a backlight such that it may be viewed in the dark or other low light environments.

The display may be provided with a touch screen to receive input e.g. data commands etc. from a user. For example a user may operate the mobile electronic device C by touching the touch screen and or by performing gestures on the screen . In some embodiments the touch screen may be a capacitive touch screen a resistive touch screen an infrared touch screen combinations thereof and the like. The mobile electronic device C may further include one or more input output I O devices e.g. a keypad buttons a wireless input device a thumbwheel input device a trackstick input device and so on . The I O devices may include one or more audio I O devices such as a microphone speakers and so on.

The mobile electronic device C may also include a communication module representative of communication functionality to permit mobile electronic device C to send receive data between different devices e.g. components peripherals and or over the one or more networks and described above. Communication module may be representative of a variety of communication components and functionality including but not limited to one or more antennas a browser a transmitter and or receiver a wireless radio data ports software interfaces and drivers networking interfaces data processing components and so forth.

The mobile electronic device C through functionality represented by the communication module may be configured to communicate via one or more of the networks described above with a cellular provider and an Internet provider to receive mobile phone service and various content respectively. Content may represent a variety of different content examples of which include but are not limited to map data which may include route information route popularity and the like fitness metrics such as heart rate speed and the like dimensions and characteristics relating to an activity such as activity type and details associated with equipment used to travel along a route e.g. dimensions of exercise equipment watercraft aircraft automobile motorcycle etc. web pages services music photographs video email service instant messaging device drivers real time and or historical weather data instruction updates and so forth.

The mobile electronic device C is illustrated as including a user interface which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The user interface is representative of functionality to control the display of information and data to the user of the mobile electronic device C via the display . In some implementations the display may not be integrated into the mobile electronic device C and may instead be connected externally using universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth. The user interface may provide functionality to allow the user to interact with one or more applications of the mobile electronic device C by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices . For example the user interface may cause an application programming interface API to be generated to expose functionality to an application to configure the application for display by the display or in combination with another display. In embodiments the API may further expose functionality to configure the application to allow the user to interact with an application by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices .

Applications may comprise software which is storable in memory and executable by the processor to perform a specific operation or group of operations to furnish functionality to the mobile electronic device C. Example applications may include fitness application exercise applications health applications diet applications cellular telephone applications instant messaging applications email applications photograph sharing applications calendar applications address book applications and so forth.

The user interface may also include or have access to a browser . The browser enables the mobile electronic device C to display and interact with content such as a webpage within the World Wide Web a webpage provided by a web server in a private network and so forth. The browser may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the browser may be configured as an application accessed by the user interface . The browser may be a web browser suitable for use by a full resource device with substantial memory and processor resources e.g. a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA etc. . However in one or more implementations the browser may be a mobile browser suitable for use by a low resource device with limited memory and or processing resources e.g. a mobile telephone a portable music device a transportable entertainment device etc. . Such mobile browsers typically conserve memory and processor resources but may offer fewer browser functions than web browsers.

The mobile electronic device C is illustrated as including a navigation module which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The navigation module represents functionality to access map data that is stored in the memory or otherwise accessed by the mobile electronic device C to provide mapping and navigation functionality to the user of the mobile electronic device C. For example the navigation module may generate navigation information that includes maps and or map related content for display by display . As used herein map related content includes information associated with maps generated by the navigation module and may include route information POIs information associated with POIs map legends controls for manipulation of a map e.g. scroll pan etc. street views aerial satellite views and the like displayed on or as a supplement to one or more maps.

In one or more implementations the navigation module is configured to utilize the map data to generate navigation information that includes maps and or map related content for display by the mobile electronic device C independently of content sources external to the mobile electronic device C. Thus for example the navigation module may be capable of providing mapping and navigation functionality when access to external content is not available through network . It is contemplated however that the navigation module may also be capable of accessing a variety of content via the networks to generate navigation information including maps and or map related content for display by the mobile electronic device C in one or more implementations.

The navigation module may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the navigation module may be configured as an application accessed by the user interface . The navigation module may utilize position data determined by the position determining module to show a current position of the user e.g. the mobile electronic device C on a displayed map furnish navigation instructions e.g. turn by turn instructions to an input destination or POI calculate traveling distances and times and so on.

As illustrated in the navigation module further includes a route selection module which is also storable in memory and executable by the processor . The route selection module causes the display of the mobile electronic device C to be configured to display suggested route information . In the implementation shown the route selection information is illustrated in the format of a map page that includes a route graphic representing a suggested route that may be traversed by a user of the mobile electronic device C. In some embodiments of the invention the route selection module may include information relating to the desired route characteristic information associated with the user as described herein. However note that the desired route characteristic information may also be collected and or stored in memory as described herein and illustrated in .

In embodiments a remote web server or other electronic apparatus may provide route selection module of mobile electronic device C information associated with a suggested route such as suggested route information . For example a suggested route may be provided to the user of mobile electronic device C in a course file such as TPX GPX FIT or KML files or via a web browser displayed on the display of mobile electronic device C. The course files may be provided by the remote web server or other electronic apparatus to various electronic devices A B C D. For example the course files may be stored in memory of mobile electronic device C and may contain map data and or navigation data associated with the suggested route to assist the user in navigating the route.

An exemplary procedure for assisting a user in selecting a route on which to run bike or perform other activity based on comparing desired route characteristic information with tracked popularity of routes traveled by other users is described herein. The procedure may broadly include receiving and storing route data for routes previously traveled by a plurality of users receiving desired route characteristic information from the user comparing the desired route characteristic information to the stored route data and suggesting at least one of the stored routes to the user based on the comparison. Furthermore the procedure may include visually indicating with a color coded heat map a popularity of all stored routes or the stored routes suggested to the user based on the comparison.

The flow chart of depicts the steps of an exemplary procedure for providing route information to the user for selecting a route. In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the various blocks may occur out of the order depicted in . For example two blocks shown in succession in may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The procedure may comprise the step of receiving and storing route data associated with routes previously traveled by a plurality of users as depicted in block . For example the stored route data may be received and stored in the memory of the apparatus described above. The route data may be collected from electronic devices such as electronic device A B C D described above and or entered manually by one or more of the users submitting route data. The stored route data may include geographic locations of points on the routes traveled by the users types of electronic devices used to collect geographic locations of points along the traveled routes type s of activity associated with each of the routes characteristics and dimensions associated with the user s equipment types of activity and the like and or the number of times each route was traveled by the plurality of users. The types of activity associated with the routes may include running cycling skating and the like. Characteristics and dimensions associated with the types of activities may depend on exercise equipment or vehicles used to travel the routes. For example characteristics and dimensions associated with exercise equipment may include dimensions of bicycles roller blades skateboards and vehicles such as a watercraft aircraft automobile motorcycle and the like. The number of times each route was traveled by the plurality of users may be used to determine a frequency at which the geographic locations associated with the stored routes have been previously traveled by users. A popularity of a route may be determined based on the number of times each route was traveled and or the frequency at which the routes have been previously traveled.

The route data may further include or be categorized according to time day month season tides types of electronic devices types of activity and or characteristics and dimensions of equipment used to travel the routes by the users from which route data is collected. In embodiments the popularity of stored route data may be determined and indicated based on the time day month season tides types of electronic devices types of activity or dimensions corresponding to equipment used to travel the stored routes. Route data may also include information associated with the users being tracked or inputting route data into the apparatus such as the type of travel or exercise equipment used type of activity performed and teams or groups with which the person is associated. For example the stored route data may include an identification of the users who traveled each of the routes and the desired route characteristic information may identify a selected user. In embodiments the processing device suggests to the user who provided the desired route characteristic information one or more stored routes that were previously traveled by the selected user. The stored route data may also include fitness metrics associated with the user at various geographic locations through which the user traveled while wearing or holding a mobile electronic device.

The procedure may further include the step of displaying information about the routes previously taken by some or all of the users as depicted in block . For example the processing device may display or provide information to display an indication of popularity of routes geographic locations of points of interest starting points of routes types of activities associated with the routes types of equipment used to travel the routes and any other route data described herein. Popularity of the routes may be determined by the processing device using the stored route data . The number of times each route was traveled by the plurality of users may be used to determine the popularity of stored routes that have been previously traveled by some or all of the users. For example the frequency at which the routes have been previously traveled may be used to determine the popularity of stored routes. In embodiments the popularity of stored routes may be presented in the form a listing ranking each route by its popularity. Displaying information about the routes may be accomplished via an Internet portal on one of the electronic devices A B C D.

The procedure may also include the step of receiving desired route characteristic information from a user wishing to receive route instructions as depicted in block . The desired route characteristic information may be based on user selections made via the electronic device a profile created by or for the user or other various sensed information about the user communicated to the processing device . For example the user s desired route characteristic information may be input or selected via a software program or app on the electronic device A B C D or via an Internet portal accessed and displayed by the electronic device A B C D. The user s desired route characteristic information may be uploaded to the apparatus and stored on the memory via communications network or wireless network . In some embodiments the user s desired route characteristic information may be stored in memory and memory as a user profile which may be completed and edited by the user via the electronic device A B C D.

The user s desired route characteristic information may include the user s name desired activity type a type of electronic device associated with or in use by the user selected equipment for the user s desired activity type characteristics and dimensions corresponding to the selected equipment a geographic area associated with and or selected by the user and or one or more users e.g. a group team or individuals associated with the user. The user s desired route characteristic information may also include user preferences such as a desired level of route popularity and a time day month or season at which the user will perform the desired activity type. The user s desired activity type may include running cycling boating roller skating roller blading skateboarding and the like. Furthermore the user s activity type may include subcategories of activity types such as street biking versus mountain biking. The user s selected equipment may include bikes skates skateboards boats other exercise equipment vehicles and the like. The user s selected equipment may include specific dimensions that enable enhanced situational awareness and increased confidence in suggested routes for users who prefer popular frequently traveled routes by other users have equipment of similar size and capability. For example a user may select a boat having precise width height above water and depth below water to locate previously traveled routes by other users having a boat that similar to or exceeding the dimensions of the user s boat. Knowing that other users with similar equipment have safely traveled along a route in a body of water may provide the user with enhanced situational awareness and increased confidence to travel through that body of water. Furthermore the user s selected equipment may include specific types brands models or sizes of the equipment listed herein such as a specific type of bike.

The procedure may also include the steps of comparing the route data and the desired route characteristic information as depicted in block and suggesting one or more stored routes to the user based on the comparison as depicted in block . For example previously traveled routes may be suggested to the user based on a user specified geographic area an activity type running cycling etc. user selected equipment and or desired popularity of a route. A determination of popularity of the routes and or geographic locations along the routes may be accomplished by analyzing the route data described above. For example the processing device may access the stored routes and determine an extent to which a route has been traveled or a geographic location has been visited based on a count of a total number of times each route was previously traveled or a count of a total number of times a route associated with each geographic location was traveled. The processing device may also determine if users that traveled a particular route took that route multiple times e.g. whether a few users took the route many times or many users took the route a few times . Another factor used to determine the popularity of a route may be the frequency of which the route is traveled by users e.g. multiple times a day a few times a month etc. .

The popularity of a route may be communicated to the user by providing data representative of a total number of times geographic locations comprising the route were traveled within a relevant time period or by categorizing each route into a set of ranges. For example in one embodiment a set of five ranges may be used to indicate the popularity of previously traveled routes. A first range may be associated with most heavily traveled routes e.g. routes that rank in the 80 100percentile of stored routes 80 100 of users tracked previously traveled these routes etc. . A second range may be associated with heavily traveled routes e.g. routes rank in the 60 79percentile of stored routes 60 79 of users tracked previously traveled these routes etc. . A third range may be associated with routes of medium use e.g. routes rank in the 40 59percentile of stored routes 40 59 of users tracked previously traveled these routes etc. . A fourth range may be associated with lightly traveled routes e.g. routes rank in the 20 39percentile of stored routes 20 39 of users tracked previously traveled these routes etc. . A fifth range may be associated with rarely traveled routes e.g. routes rank at or less than the 19percentile of stored paths 19 or less of users tracked previously traveled these routes etc. . This evaluation technique may be applied to each stored route independent of the geographic locations comprising each route based on the geographic locations comprising each route or combinations thereof. In embodiments a color coded heat map may associate a distinguishable color with each popularity range and present each route in one of five colors on a map. These ranges are only examples and may be replaced with any other ranges without departing from the scope of the present technology.

Comparisons of the route data and desired route characteristic information may be accomplished using a variety of techniques. For example the processing device may analyze the stored route data to identify geographic locations or routes that are heavily traveled in the morning afternoon or evening hours or that are more popular during a particular season. This may enable the user to select or input desired route characteristic information and join others on a route at a time when it is heavily traveled or to pick a time of day that it is not heavily traveled to avoid the increased activity in those geographic locations. Furthermore tide related information may be selected or inputted by the user as desired route characteristic information to identify areas of a route affected by the tide at a particular time of day or time of year.

In other embodiments the comparison may include comparing types of activity and the exercise equipment or vehicle used to travel the stored route with a desired activity type and various characteristics and or dimensions of exercise equipment or vehicles selected or input by the user as desired route characteristic information . Specifically if the user plans to travel a route using particular fitness equipment or a particular vehicle the processing device may compare the desired route characteristic information with the stored route data to determine which stored routes were previously traveled using the same equipment or vehicle or which stored routes were previously traveled using equipment or vehicles having similar characteristics or dimensions and suggest one or more of the stored routes to the user. The user s fitness equipment or vehicle may be provided to the apparatus via a user profile user selection of particular fitness equipment or vehicles or manual input by the user of particular characteristics or dimensions of the fitness equipment or vehicle that will be used to travel a suggest route. For example if the user is interested in using a bicycle to travel to a destination or perform a workout routes or geographic locations previously traveled by other users using bicycles may be suggested and displayed. This functionality may also allow the user to identify the popularity of routes or geographic locations for a particular activity type or by a particular fitness equipment or vehicle in order to select a route for travel based on the user s interest in travelling through popular geographic locations. For example a runner may desire to run on a path that is accessible to bicycles but not frequently traveled by others on bicycles to avoid incidents or traffic along the suggested route. Similarly fisherman can identify heavily traveled areas of a body of water and receive suggested routes that may avoids fishing in those areas or identify a suggested route that is not popular for other users.

In some embodiments of the technology the fitness equipment or vehicle characteristics or dimensions may be specified by the user as desired route characteristic information if the user is interested in using a marine vessel having known characteristics or dimensions to travel along a suggested route to a destination such as a port diving location and the like. In this case the apparatus may suggest one or more routes previously traveled by similar types and sizes of boats. This suggestion may allow the user such as a watercraft operator to identify popular routes or waterways navigated by other similar types of watercraft and select a suggested route for travel based on the popularity of the stored routes. The user may also identify popular routes through a geographic location such as a port or a coral reef and determine routes courses and areas of interest for a particular activity type such as areas popular for fishing or diving and select a suggested route for travel based on the popularity of the stored routes. The user may also identify areas having sufficient width depth draft and clearance for the user s particular boat or watercraft and select a suggested route for travel based on the popularity of the stored routes. The similarity between the user s electronic device which may be input as desired route characteristic information and the types of electronic devices used to gather the stored route data may also be used in a comparison to suggest one or more routes to a user and assist the user in determining which stored route to follow.

In another embodiment of the present technology the apparatus may enable a driver interested in traveling along a stored route to a destination using an automobile to identify tourist areas and paths of sufficient width to drive through with a vehicle selected by the user. In yet another embodiment of the present technology the apparatus may enable pilots interested in flying along a stored route to a destination in an aircraft to identify popular flight paths for other users. For example a pilot interested in flying to a destination through a mountainous terrain can have increased confidence for a route through the mountains if it has been frequently traveled by other pilots in similar aircraft time of day or other desired route characteristic information .

Finally the procedure may include the step of visually indicating popularity of the routes suggested to the user on a display of the electronic device such as with a color coded heat map and or an ordered listing of routes as depicted in block . This may enable the user to easily select a route or geographic location of interest based on popularity of suggested routes and or geographic locations. Specifically the heat map may communicate the popularity of a previously traveled route or geographic location has been traveled by other users by associating a distinguishable color with each stored route or geographic location. Associating distinguishable colors with the geographic locations associated with displayed routes may indicate a frequency at which the geographic locations have been previously traveled. The suggestion of a stored route may be based on the popularity of the routes or independent of the popularity of the routes. Thus viewing a color coded heat map may enable a user to select a suggested route because this color coding functionality helps distinguish a heavily traveled route from a lightly traveled route when multiple paths are simultaneously present and or suggested by the computer program or apparatus .

As illustrated in the heat map may be provided via a Web portal accessible by the user s electronic device A B C D and may display a plurality of distinguishable colors associated with a stored route or geographic locations associated with a route within a region being presented in the heat map. For example the geographic locations associated with a highly traveled route may be color coded red as represented by the cross hatching on the heat map while moderately highly traveled geographic locations or routes may be color coded orange as represented by the cross hatching medium traveled geographic locations or routes may be color coded yellow as represented by the cross hatching occasionally traveled geographic locations or routes may be color coded green as represented by the cross hatching and rarely traveled geographic locations or routes may be color coded blue as represented by the cross hatching . As described above a color coded heat map may associate a distinguishable color with a popularity range and present each route in one of a plurality of colors on a map.

The heat map may enable the user to identify the popularity of running and cycling workout hot spots in a region such as a city park. Such popularity of use information may help the user find new locations to work out create a new course see where they may be near other runners or suggest a good location to meet up with friends. Routes suggested to the user may be visually indicated on a color coded heat map associating a distinguishable color with geographic locations associated with the stored routes to indicate a frequency at which the geographic locations have been previously traveled. In some embodiments of the technology a team of cyclists or runners that are not able to practice navigating a route together may identify routes that have been previously traveled by teammates and travel the more popular routes for practice. Specifically routes suggested to the user may be filtered based on routes previously traveled by teammates or group members associated with the user.

The heat map may also include start point graphics indicating the start and or finishing point of a particular route. Furthermore a listing of the routes may be provided and may be ranked by popularity of the routes or any other criteria selected by the user. For example if a user profile indicates that the user prefers to run alone routes may be displayed in reverse order from least to most popular and may be filtered according to routes collected from other runners only and could further be filtered by a time of day that the user wishes to run. Also as illustrated in drop down menus or other selectable options may be provided to the user in order to input desired route characteristic information . For example a drop down menu may enable a user to select the user s desired activity type such as running or cycling. Then the stored routes displayed on the heat map and in the listing may be filtered according to the selected activity type. The stored routes that are displayed may be suggested for the user based on a comparison of at least some of the user s desired route characteristic information with the stored route data or present all stored routes for a displayed geographic region.

In embodiments a desired geographic area or level of zoom applied to the heat map may be considered desired route characteristic information herein and may be used as criteria to filter which of the stored routes will be displayed on the heat map and or listing . In some embodiments of the technology the popularity of a route may be scaled according to a level of zoom. For example the number of times required for a route to be presented in a heat map covering a large geographic area may be much greater than the number of times required for that route to appear in a heat map of a much smaller geographic area.

In some embodiments of the technology the heat map and or the suggested routes described herein may be provided to the user via course files such as TPX GPX FIT or KML files. The course files can be downloaded to various electronic devices such as the fitness watch illustrated in . The course files may contain map data and or navigation data to assist the user in navigating the route using the user s selected electronic device. In some instances the course files may also contain and or keep track of various fitness metrics such as heart rate speed and the like.

The above mentioned identification of route and geographic location usage may be applied to any situation in which position locations are stored e.g. tracklogs and used. The apparatus may suggest and enable users to identify popular and heavily traveled routes and geographic locations for fitness recreational marine aviation and or automotive uses.

Although the technology has been described with reference to the embodiments illustrated in the attached drawing figures it is noted that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from the scope of the technology as recited in the claims.

