---

title: Media device turntable
abstract: An assembly can include a base; and a turntable rotatably coupled to the base where the turntable can include an optical port, a mount that positions an electronic device with respect to the optical port and at least one waveguide operatively coupled to the optical port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449640&OS=09449640&RS=09449640
owner: 
number: 09449640
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140603
---
Subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to media devices and associated equipment and techniques.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material to which a claim for copyright is made. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but reserves all other copyright rights whatsoever.

Turntables find use in various fields. For example consider a media player such as a record player where a disc embodied with information rotates with respect to a media reader head. In such an example circuitry may render the information for example as audio via one or more speakers. Various equipment technologies techniques etc. are described herein that pertain to media players e.g. media controllers etc. and associated equipment and techniques that can include turntables etc.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Various subject matter described herein includes one or more examples of new original and ornamental designs e.g. for an article of manufacture . For example subject matter described herein includes one or more of A a design for an ornament impression print or picture applied to or embodied in an article of manufacture surface indicia B a design for the shape or configuration of an article of manufacture or C a combination of the first two categories.

We Glenn Kreisel and Benjamin Bloch being citizens of the United States have invented new original and ornamental designs for turntables and for computer icon images that can be displayed as designs for an article of manufacture that can be a computer screen a display panel or a monitor.

Turntablism has been described as the art of manipulating sounds and creating music using direct drive turntables and a DJ mixer. The term turntablist has been used to describe the difference between a DJ who just plays records and one who performs by touching and moving the records stylus and mixer to manipulate sound. A hiphop scratch artist may play a record like an electronic washboard with a phonographic needle as a plectrum to produce sounds that may be unique e.g. difficult to reproduce . To such an artist the record player may be considered to be a musical instrument. Some turntablist DJs use turntable techniques like beat mixing matching scratching and beat juggling. Some turntablists seek to have themselves recognized as traditional musicians capable of interacting and improvising with other performers.

In the example of the recess includes a floor lateral walls and end walls and and supplemental recesses and . In the recess may be shaped with various dimensions to seat an electronic device. For example the recess may include dimensions in a Cartesian coordinate system x y and z that can seat an electronic device such as a cellular phone.

As an example a cellular phone may be seated in the recess of the turntable to align a lens of a flash unit of the cellular phone with the optical port and to align one or more speakers of the cellular phone with the supplemental recesses and . In such an example one or more of the supplemental recesses and may provide finger or other tool access for example for removal of a cellular phone from the recess .

In the example of one or more features of the turntable may be described with respect to a cylindrical coordinate system r z . For example the surface indicia may be a series of concentric ridges disposed at various radii. Such surface indicia may provide for traction for example where sweat moisture etc. may flow to spaces between the ridges while leaving upper ridge surfaces more suitable for finger based movements.

As an example the turntable may be made of a material such as metal alloy plastic etc. For example the turntable may be made of a polymeric material optionally with a surface finish that is rough to provide an increase friction coefficient with respect to a surface of a hand.

In the example of the turntable or one or more components coupled thereto may act as waveguides. For example a waveguide or waveguides may guide electromagnetic energy emissions from a flash unit of a device seated in the recess to one or more of a plurality of the passages . For example a sub assembly that includes fiber optics may guide light from the optical port to the passages .

As an example where a device is seated in the recess of the turntable the device may include motion sensing circuitry. For example consider an accelerometer a gyroscope etc. As an example rotation of the turntable about a central axis may cause a motion sensing circuitry of a device to sense motion and to control one or more outputs. For example where the device includes a flash motion sensing circuitry may be operatively coupled to flash driver circuitry to trigger the flash based at least in part on the sensed motion. As another example where the device includes media player circuitry motion sensing circuitry may be operatively coupled to the media player circuitry for controlling the media player circuitry. For example the media player circuitry may be controlled in a manner akin to a system used by a turntablist. In such an example the device may provide for beat mixing matching scratching and beat juggling. As an example the device in combination with the turntable may be a musical instrument.

As an example an assembly can include a base and a turntable see e.g. the turntable rotatably coupled to the base where the turntable includes an optical port see e.g. the optical port a mount see e.g. the recess that positions an electronic device with respect to the optical port and at least one waveguide operatively coupled to the optical port. In such an example the mount may be or include a rectangular recess where for example the optical port is disposed in a floor of the rectangular recess.

As an example the cellular phone of may be described with respect to a coordinate system such as a Cartesian coordinate system e.g. with x y z coordinates . As an example an electronic device may include an axis that may be considered a central axis. Such an axis may be normal to a plane defined by the device for example defined by a display of the device. As an example when carried by a turntable the turntable may rotate about a rotational axis that may be aligned with the central axis of the device. As an example a central axis may be a geometrically centered axis. As an example a mass centered axis may be defined. As an example a mass center may be at or near a geometric center. As an example motion sensing circuitry may be at or offset from a geometric center see e.g. . As an example a device may be carried by a turntable and rotated where such rotation may correspond to a rotational axis that may be at a geometric center of the device or offset from a geometric center of the device. As described herein a plane is a geometrical plane e.g. not an abbreviation for an airplane . For example the cellular phone may be substantially planar and may be rotated within a geometrical plane.

As an example a device may include an operating system that can establish an operating system environment that is suitable for execution of applications e.g. instructions stored in memory etc. . As an example a device may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs . As an example a call may be made to an API where the call may include one or more parameters. Such a call may instruct a device to perform an action and optionally return information. For example an application may receive information e.g. via circuitry user input etc. and formulate an API call that calls for a device to perform an action e.g. render audio render video trigger a flash via flash circuitry receive sensor data set a parameter value etc. . As an example consider the iOS APIs that may operatively couple with one or more services.

As an example consider core audio services that may be layered on top of a hardware abstraction layer HAL . As an example audio signals may pass to and from hardware through the HAL. An application may access the HAL using for example audio hardware services in a core audio framework. As another example consider a Core MIDI Musical Instrument Digital Interface framework that can provide interfaces for MIDI data.

As another example consider a core motion framework that can provide an application access to motion data from motion sensing circuitry. Such a framework may support access of raw and or processed accelerometer data for example using block based interfaces. As an example consider a device with a gyroscope where a motion framework provides for retrieval of raw gyro data processed data etc. A motion framework may allow for accelerometer and or gyro based data one or more applications that can utilize motion as input. As a particular example consider an instance of a CMAccelerometerData class that represents an accelerometer event which may be a measurement of acceleration along multiple spatial axes at a moment of time e.g. typedef struct double x double y double z CMAcceleration . Various examples of resources for the iOS may be available for example via Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. see e.g. developer.apple.com library ios .

As an example an application executable on an electronic device may be coded in accordance to one or more software frameworks. As an example code may conform to for example the Swift software framework Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. which is an object oriented programming language that targets iOS and OS X. The Swift software framework includes getter setter syntax akin to that of C the type after variable named and colon akin to Pascal derived languages string interpolation as in various scripting languages e.g. using foo versus Groovy s foo a question mark suffix after a type to denote it can be nullable akin to Ceylon range operators akin to Ruby e.g. noting that code for an application may be that of one or more software frameworks such as for example Swift C Groovy Ceylon Ruby etc. . The Swift software framework may be utilized for direct access to the Foundation framework e.g. base layer of objective C classes and the UIKit framework e.g. classes to construct and manage an application s user interface .

As an example a device may include one or more of audio codec circuitry audio chip circuitry etc. As an example consider one or more components marketed by Cirrus Logic e.g. Apple 33851077 Audio CODEC and Apple 33851117 Cirrus Audio Chip . As an example an audio codec may include one or more stereo codecs and or multichannel codecs e.g. for surround sound applications . As an example a component may include an analog to digital converter and or a digital to analog converter.

As an example a device can include a processor and memory accessible by the processor. As an example a device can include a display and display driver circuitry for rendering information to the display. As an example a device can include a touch sensitive display operable via one or more touch sensing techniques e.g. capacitive finger touch stylus touch etc. . As an example one or more computer readable media may include processor executable instructions that may be stored in memory and executable by a processor to cause a device to perform one or more actions. As an example a computer readable media may be a storage media that is non transitory. As an example various techniques methods etc. described herein may be implemented via a device that includes a processor and memory. As an example a device may include circuitry that can receive media data and render media data. For example a device may receive a song file as media data and include media player circuitry that can render the media data as electronic signals for receipt by a transducer such as a speaker.

As an example a device may include rendering one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to a display that may be a touch sensitive display. As an example a GUI may include one or more controls that may be actuated via touch or other input e.g. voice command motion gesture etc. . As an example a device may be seated in a turntable and operated to render a GUI where one or more controls may be selected via rotation of the turntable. For example consider a GUI that illustrates options arranged about an arc. In such an example at least a portion of the GUI may remain stationary while rotation causes a pointer e.g. a cursor to rotate to one or more of the options which may be selected for example via a tap to the turntable a back n forth rotational gesture to the turntable etc.

As an example a system may include a device and a turntable where the device responds to input via rotation of the turntable. As an example the system may be a turntable gesture system for example where gestures input via the turntable are sensed by the device and where the device can perform one or more actions based at least in part on the sensed gesture input.

As to communications the block may be operatively coupled to circuitry such as Bluetooth circuitry and or other wireless communication circuitry e.g. AirPlay circuitry Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. etc. . As an example the block may be operatively coupled to circuitry such as media sampling and or conversion circuitry . As an example such circuitry may be implemented at least in part via processor executable instructions that may be stored in memory of an electronic device seated with respect to a turntable e.g. in a recess of a turntable .

In the system various blocks represent actions which may be functionality implemented by an electronic device seated in a turntable where the electronic device can sense motion and call for one or more actions in response to such sensed motion.

As an example an electronic device may be configured with motion sensing circuitry to sense one or more of yaw roll and pitch . As an example an electronic device may be seated in a recess of a turntable and rotated about an axis. In such an example the electronic device may be seated flat with respect to gravity in that a display of the device defines a plane and where rotation of the device maintains the device substantially in the plane.

As an example a recess of a turntable may seat a device at an angle for example to allow motion sensing circuitry to be slightly offset from gravity in that gravity in terms of a vector is not normal to a plane defined by axes of an x accelerometer and or a y accelerometer.

As an example an electronic device may include motion sensing circuitry that is offset from the geometric center of a device. Referring again to the turntable of in such an example the motion sensing circuitry such as an accelerometer may be positioned at a radius and may rotate about a central axis e.g. rotational axis of the turntable at that radius e.g. about a diameter .

Referring again to the system motion sensing circuitry may implement one or more functions of a block for example consider bump sample and or play. As an example motion sensing circuitry may implement one or more functions of a block for example consider visual effects which may be caused by flashing of a flash unit of a device e.g. electromagnetic energy emissions etc. As an example motion sensing circuitry may implement one or more functions of a block for example consider the block as being an effects module that can set one or more setting for purposes of control of visual effects and or other effects.

As shown the system can include a block as a screen adjust module and a block as a screen adjust effect module that may cause one or more effects that can be rendered to a screen display of a device. For example consider a stationary effect where rotation of the device does not rotate information rendered to a screen a reverse effect where rotation in one direction of a turntable causes information rendered to a screen to be rotated in an opposite direction a skip effect where information rendered to a screen may be skipped jittered and a flash effect where information rendered to a screen may be flashed. As an example various effects may be media coupled and or motion coupled. For example media coupled may act to couple effects to amplitude beat etc. of rendered media e.g. songs whereas motion coupled may act to couple effects to rotation rotational shifts rotational speeds rotational acceleration etc. of a device as carried by a turntable. As an example where media rendering is coupled to motion one or more effects may be a hybrid motion media coupled effect.

As an example the system can include a determination block that acts to determine direction of rotation for example to convert a rotational motion to a particular rpm e.g. akin to a turntable of a turntablist . As an example the system can include a digital overlay block that can be implemented to sample sounds to order data for play direction e.g. forward or backward etc. As an example the system may include an overlay module that can include one or more settings for example to control a block that can provide for gravitation and or stickiness.

As an example the system may be provided as part of a kit that includes a speaker unit . As shown in the example of the speaker unit includes at least one speaker and optionally actuatable controls . As an example the speaker unit may include Bluetooth technology circuitry for wireless communication e.g. handshakes etc. and receipt of information such as audio information. As an example the Bluetooth technology circuitry may provide a wireless range of up to about 33 feet 10 m or more it may be Bluetooth compliant it may support enhanced data rate EDR it may support one or more profiles such as for example the Advanced Audio Distribution Profile A2DP Hands Free Profile HFP Headset Profile HSP and Serial Port Profile SPP . The speaker unit may include MyTALK framework capabilities e.g. for Windows OS Mac OSX etc. . As an example circuitry of the speaker unit may be configured for simultaneous multipoint where it can operatively couple with multiple devices for transmissions.

As an example the speaker unit may include acoustic drivers passive bass radiators a built in microphone an IEEE 1329 Type 1 compliant speakerphone a stereo input jack a USB port e.g. for updating on the MyTALK framework . As an example the speaker unit may include features of one or more Jambox speaker units such as the Mini Jambox speaker unit and or the Big Jambox speaker unit e.g. wireless speaker marketed by Jawbone San Francisco Calif. . The Big Jambox speaker unit has a length of about 10 256 mm a width of about 3.1 80 mm a height of about 3.6 93 mm and a weight of about 2.7 lbs 1.23 kg and includes battery power for up to about 15 hours of continuous play where battery life may be displayed on a compatible device operatively coupled with the unit e.g. consider the device . As an example the device of the system may optionally render battery life to a display of the device for example consider a low battery signal that alerts a user that a coupled wireless speaker unit such as the unit is low on power.

As an example the turntable may be rotatably coupled to the base unit for example where friction is reduced through use of one or more bearing elements. As an example consider stainless steel ball bearings that may be disposed between races e.g. an upper race and a lower race . As an example to reduce friction e.g. sliding the base unit may include rubbery feet a rubbery pad etc. As an example the base unit may have a dimension e.g. diameter that is larger than that of the turntable which may act to prevent interference with rotation of the turntable where the system is positioned next to another object e.g. on a surface . As an example a turntable may be about a foot in diameter noting that other sizes may be used. As an example a turntable may be sized to carry an electronic device and allow for rotation. As an example a kit may include a turntable e.g. with a base unit with a diameter of about a foot or less and a portable speaker unit with wireless communication circuitry for transmission of at least audio information from an electronic device to the portable speaker unit. As an example such a kit may include a carrying bag.

Referring to the turntable of as an example the recess may be configured to receive an electronic device with an interference fit. For example a turntable may be made of a material that includes an amount of elasticity such that it may be slightly smaller in one or more dimensions than an electronic device and such that it may expand to receive an electronic device. As an example one or more carriers may be implemented such as an elastomeric carrier that can receive an electronic device and fit the electronic device into a recess of a turntable. As an example a turntable may include an elastomeric layer that may be within a recess that can change shape to accommodate one or more different types of electronic devices. As an example a turntable may include an elastomeric element e.g. an O ring configured rectangularly with respect to a recess where the elastomeric element may accommodate an electronic device and secure the electronic device with respect to the turntable. As an example where a type of interference fit may be implemented force for removal and insertion may be determined based on force applicable by a human hand e.g. consider the hand of a child of 5 years old . As an example a turntable may include a locking mechanism that may be actuated to lock an electronic device with respect to a turntable. For example consider one or more tabs that may swing to secure an electronic device with respect to a turntable.

As an example a system may be configured with circuitry that can compensate for displacements with respect to a direction of gravity. For example consider mounting of the system on a slanted board. In such an example the device may detect its angle with respect to gravity and compensate motion sensing circuitry or signals therefrom with respect to the detected angle. In such an example the device may operate as if the system were positioned on a level horizontal surface.

As an example the turntable of may be a table that can be operatively coupled to a base unit where the base unit includes one or more bearings etc. that allow for rotation of the table. As an example a turntable such as the turntable of may include one or more bearings that allow for it to be rotated about a central rotational axis.

While the example of shows track time other information may be displayed for example even phone call information which may include a live chat session information where video is streamed to the device via a network. In such an example the user of the system may see a caller and communicate with the caller while using the device as part of the system for controlling media rendering. In other words where the device is configured with communication circuitry such as cellular phone circuitry it may be a multi mode device that can operate in multiple modes simultaneously.

As an example consider a dance club scenario where a DJ gets a call from a manager the DJ may answer the call optionally without interrupting media rendering i.e. the party goes on. In such an example the DJ may utilize a headset such as a Bluetooth headset to communicate with the caller via a device seated in a turntable. Again where the call is a video call video may be rendered to the display of the device and optionally in a stationary manner.

As mentioned the turntable of may be configured with one or more waveguides. shows an example of the turntable together with a coupling component and a plurality of optical fibers . As shown the optical port may extend to the surface of the turntable and receive a bundled end of the plurality of optical fibers . In such an example the coupling component may help position and secure the plurality of optical fibers where each of the optical fibers extends to a passage see e.g. the passage of the turntable . As an example a passage may open to the surface of the turntable or to another surface such as the peripheral surface of the turntable .

As an example a turntable may include light generating circuitry. For example consider a turntable that includes a power source e.g. one or more batteries and one or more LEDs laser diodes etc. In such an example the light generating circuitry may be controlled via signals from an electronic device carried by the turntable and or respond to sound waves rotation bumping etc.

In the device includes an application processor a baseband processor an audio codec a display e.g. including display driver circuitry a camera flash sub system a USB port touch sensing circuitry motion sensing circuitry Bluetooth circuitry mobile circuitry power management circuitry audio amplification circuitry GPS circuitry WLAN circuitry memory a microphone jack in a captive microphone a captive speaker one or more additional speakers and headset out circuitry . Various types of interfaces may exist between circuitry of a device such as the device . As an example consider an IS interface which may for example operatively couple the application processor and the audio codec the baseband processor and the audio code and the Bluetooth circuitry and the audio codec .

As an example the audio code may include an integrated low power smart audio codec that can serve as a mobile audio distribution network incorporating multiple digital analog converters DACs and an ADC for example with ground centered headphone line and speaker amplifiers for smartphone and portable applications. As an example such an audio codec may include three asynchronous bidirectional serial ports with integrated asynchronous sample rate converters ASRCs that may accept a range of incoming audio sample rates for example to feed an integrated digital mixing engine e.g. consider the Cirrus Logic CS42L73 audio codec the datasheet of which is incorporated by reference herein CS42L73 F1.pdf . Such an engine may be configured to overlay e.g. optionally simultaneously and distribute digital audio from multiple sources to one or more its integrated audio nodes for example to provide routeability within an electronic device.

As an example circuitry can include a digital mixer that can mix and route inputs e.g. analog inputs to ADC digital microphone serial ports etc. to outputs e.g. DAC fed amplifiers serial ports etc. . As an example a digital mixer may include features for independent attenuation on individual mixer input for individual output. As an example processing along one or more output paths from a digital mixer to one or more DACs can optionally include volume adjustment and for example mute control. As an example a peak detector may be implemented to automatically adjust one or more volume levels via a programmable limiter. As an example circuitry such as audio codec circuitry may be controllable via one or more busses. For example consider an IC bus that may be coupled to an IC interface of audio codec circuitry such that the audio codec circuitry may respond to instructions executed by a processor e.g. according to one or more applications etc. . As an example media player circuitry may include audio codec circuitry. As an example media player circuitry may include an application executable via a processor that can instruct circuitry such as audio codec circuitry.

As an example circuitry such as audio codec circuitry may operatively couple with wireless communication circuitry via lines such as clock and data lines e.g. XSP LRCK XSP SCLK XSP SDIN XSP SDOUT . As an example an audio codec may be operatively coupled to one or more serial ports which may be independent e.g. consider the XSP ASP and VSP serial ports of the Cirrus Logic CS42L73 audio codec and may be configured to communicate audio e.g. and voice data to and from components such as for example an application processor a Bluetooth transceiver a cell phone modem etc.

IS also known as Inter IC Sound Integrated Interchip Sound or IIS is an electrical serial bus interface standard that can be implemented for operatively coupling one or more digital components with respect to audio information. For example it may be implemented to communicate PCM audio data between integrated circuits in an electronic device. The IS bus can separate clock and serial data signals which may result in a lower jitter compared to communications techniques that recover the clock from a data stream.

As an example the method may be performed via the device . For example one or more modules may be stored in the memory of the device where the one or more modules include processor executable instructions to cause one or more of the processors e.g. and or other circuitry of the device to perform one or more actions of the method .

As an example an application may be stored in memory of a device and executed in an OS environment established by the device where the application may include statements that can make one or more API calls. As an example such an application may couple motion audio video flash etc. For example motion may control audio motion may control flash motion may control video audio may control flash audio may control video etc. As an example where a device includes a touchscreen graphical user interfaces may be rendered to the touchscreen that can include graphical controls actuatable via touch which may be single point touch multipoint touch gesture touch etc. As an example a device may be configured to transmit audio information to a speaker unit. In such a manner where the device is carried by a turntable motion sensed by the device may control processing of audio information where processed audio information may be transmitted wirelessly to the speaker unit to generate acoustic waves. As an example a device carried by a turntable may include an application that can transmit information to one or more effects units such as lighting units pyrotechnic units etc. As an example consider bumping of the turntable to cause flashing of one or more lights e.g. LED laser spots etc. controlled via a base unit that can receive control signals wirelessly from the device e.g. directly and or indirectly . A turntablist may use such a system to put on an audio and visual show e.g. a dance club style show .

As an example the indicator and the variable length arc can track rotational motion of a device seated with respect to a turntable. For example where a user selects a sample the indicator may be displayed without the variable length arc i.e. the sample is at time . As the device is rotated the variable length arc extends away from the indicator in the appropriate direction of rotation e.g. clockwise or counter clockwise . In such an example a user can see where she is at a given point in time with respect to the sample. As an example options can exist to make the indicator position fixed with respect to a frame of reference. For example consider the indicator being fixed with respect to a user s frame of reference such that the relative position is maintained even though a device that displays the GUI is being rotated clockwise or counter clockwise.

The GUI particularly the features and may be considered DJ gesture feedback features that may optionally be presented with respect to one or more frames of reference e.g. reference frames . Such features may allow for more deliberate actions and repetition of such actions by a DJ e.g. a turntablist .

As mentioned the GUI also includes various features for overlays. For example a graphic control may be touched to render another GUI for purposes of recording sound selection etc. A song may be a base track while one or more overlays may be selected and or created and manipulated for playback.

As to the graphic it may indicate a length of a sample and it may pulse in time for example to keep a beat. As an example the graphic may present information as to time e.g. 6 second sample . As an example the graphic may include one or more directional arrows that may shift in direction in response to direction of rotation of a device seated with respect to a turntable see e.g. the system of .

As an example a device may include a feature that can turn an overlay track off for example leaving a music track e.g. a song file isolated to be manipulated by itself. As an example a device may be switchable from one mode of operation to another mode of operation where such operational modes can provide for controlling one or more tracks e.g. layers in one or more manners.

In the example of the device e.g. or devices and can include a processor memory and motion sensing circuitry . As an example the motion sensing circuitry may include multi axis motion sensing circuitry such as one or more of a gyroscope and an accelerometer e.g. consider a STMicroelectronics L3G4200D unit a Bosch BMA220 unit etc. . As an example the motion sensing circuitry may include a tri axial low g acceleration sensor with digital interfaces and or a three axis gyroscope.

As shown in the system may include a turntable component that is rotatably mounted to a turntable component which may be a base. As shown a rolling element cartridge may rotatably couple the turntable components and . In such an example a clearance may exist between the components and such that pivoting of the component may occur with respect to the component . In such an example the pivoting may allow for bumps that tilt the component with respect to a z axis which may be a z axis of the motion sensing circuitry .

As another example the system may include a turntable component that is rotatably mounted to a turntable component which may be a base. As shown rolling elements may rotatably couple the turntable components and . In such an example while pivoting may be limited compared to the arrangement of the components and via the cartridge the motion sensing circuitry may still respond to bumps for example that may be sensed as acceleration by the motion sensing circuitry .

As an example the processor may execute instructions stored in the memory for example to perform actions based at least in part on information sensed by the motion sensing circuitry . As an example the device may include media player circuitry optionally in the form of a media player application that may be executed by the processor which may direct circuitry to render audio record audio etc. As an example the device may include one or more microphones one or more speakers one or more communication circuits etc. As an example communication circuitry may be provided for purposes of transmitting signals wirelessly to one or more devices such as a device that include communication circuitry and a speaker.

As an example consider a technology referred to as AirPlay technology. Such technology may be implemented by various types of devices. For example consider two types of AirPlay devices those configured with circuitry for sending audio visual content and those configured with circuitry for receiving content and rendering it via a display speaker.

Wireless technology may be integrated as circuitry into speaker docks AV receivers multi phonic systems etc. As an example information such as metadata information may be transmitted for example consider song titles artists album names elapsed and remaining time and album artwork. As an example a DJ application executing on a device may include features for transmitting graphics artwork etc. to one or more displays. As an example a DJ application executing on a device may include features for managing light shows pyrotechnics etc. As an example a device may receive information via a motion sensor and respond by issuing one or more triggers that act to trigger a light a special effect a pyrotechnic etc. As an example a light may be a laser light a stage light an LED light or display etc.

As an example one or more Bluetooth technology enabled devices e.g. headsets speakers etc. may support an A2DP profile and appear as AirPlay receivers when paired with an iOS device or other device noting that Bluetooth technology may operate via a device to device protocol e.g. one that does not require on a wireless network access point .

As an example a stream may be transcoded using a codec e.g. for 44100 Hz and 2 channels optionally encrypted . As an example depending on technology implemented a stream may be buffered prior to playback which may result in a short delay.

As an example to reduce delay a technology may be implemented whereby a device is positioned in close proximity to a system. As an example a component such as the component or the component may include circuitry that can receive transmissions from the device . As an example wired and or wireless circuitry may be implemented. As an example the component or the component may include one or more ports for example to connect wires that may be coupled to amplifiers speakers etc.

As an example a base unit that rotatably supports a turntable may include circuitry such as circuitry that can power an electronic device carried by the turntable. In such an example the turntable may include circuitry that operatively couples with the circuitry of the base unit. As an example a turntable system may include inductive charging circuitry. Inductive charging or wireless charging uses an electromagnetic field to transfer energy between two objects. Inductive charging can be implemented using a charging station where energy is sent through an inductive coupling to an electrical device which can then use that energy to charge batteries or run the device.

Charging circuitry can include an induction coil that can create an alternating electromagnetic field from within a charging base station and a second induction coil in operatively coupled to an electronic device that can take power from the electromagnetic field and for example converts to electrical current to charge a battery power the device etc. Two induction coils in proximity can form an electrical transformer. As an example greater distances between sender and receiver coils may be achieved where an inductive charging system implements resonant inductive coupling.

As an example an electronic device may be fit with a charging circuitry optionally as a charging case. As an example a system may include circuitry such as that of one or more of the Duracell Powermat system Procter Gamble Cincinnati Ohio the iQi Mobile charger system iQi Mobile London UK etc. The iQi Mobile charger system for the iPhone device includes a relatively thin receiver e.g. about 0.5 mm and a flexible ribbon cable e.g. about 1.4 mm that runs to a lightning connector allowing the receiver to remain plugged in when folded behind the device. The Duracell Powermat system for the iPhone device includes the AccessCase case with an inductive coil that sits just below the device s lightning port.

As an example a turntable may include circuitry such as receiver circuitry for inductive charging and a plug for plugging into an electronic device that can be carried by the turntable. As an example an electronic device may include or be fit with receiver circuitry for inductive charging. As an example a base that rotatably supports a turntable may include circuitry that can generate electromagnetic fields for inductive charging. As an example a turntable and or receiver circuitry may be operatively coupled to or include a supplemental battery. As an example a turntable may include a supplemental battery optionally with or without inductive charging circuitry. As an example consider a supplemental battery rated at about 2000 mAh. Such a battery may provide power for an electronic device carried by a turntable.

As an example inductive charging circuitry may provide for powering charging an electronic device where the electronic device is stationary and or moving e.g. rotating via a turntable .

As an example a device may include a processor memory and instructions stored in memory that can be executed by the processor to control rendering of media. In such an example control may include implementation of motion sensing circuitry and or audio codec circuitry. As an example control may include transmitting signals via one or more busses. For example consider receiving information from motion sensing circuitry via a bus and transmitting information to audio codec circuitry via a bus. In such an example a bus may be an IC bus or other type of bus.

As an example an electronic device may be carried by a turntable where the turntable and the electronic device are rotatable together in a geometrical plane. In such an example where the electronic device includes a display information may be rendered to the display in a manner where at least a portion of the information appears stationary even where the electronic device is being rotated e.g. clockwise and or counter clockwise . An offset angle depending on degree may impact an ability to make an image appear stationary on a display of an electronic device where the electronic device is being rotated. As such as an example a system may be configured to substantially position an electronic device in a geometrical plane that is a rotational plane of a turntable where rotation of the electronic device about a rotational axis sweeps the electronic device substantially within a dimension of the electronic device e.g. thickness along the rotational axis. For example if the electronic device has a thickness along a rotational axis coordinate of X the volume swept by rotation of the electronic device may have a thickness of approximately X noting that the thickness of the volume swept by rotation may be expected to increase where an offset angle increases.

As shown in the example of the circuitry may include an IC interface and or an SPI interface e.g. which may operate via receipt and or transmission of information via one or more busses . As an example the circuitry may include signal processing circuitry such as one or more amplifiers multiplexers filters analog to digital converters ADCs control logic interrupt engines etc. As an example motion sensing circuitry may include an ASIC that is operatively coupled to one or more sensor elements. In such an example signals generated by a sensor element may be processed and for example transmitted as information via one or more interfaces one or more busses etc. As an example a processor that can execute an application in an operating system environment may receive such information process at least a portion of the information and transmit information to control media player circuitry which may include audio codec circuitry and for example digital mixer circuitry.

As an example rendering may include co rendering. For example a digital mixer may include features such as multiple inputs to receive information and to mix the information for purposes of outputting to an output device such as a speaker wireless circuitry etc. As an example media player circuitry may co render information from multiple files. As an example media player circuitry may include or instruct a mixer to combine information from multiple files to generate output information that can be directed to an amplifier e.g. via wire and or wirelessly operatively coupled to one or more speakers. As an example co rendering may be performed via multiple circuits. As an example a media file may be subject to digital rights management DRM and be rendered via circuitry that can manage DRM and or a media file may be free of DRM technology and be rendered via circuitry that may or may not include DRM circuitry. As an example layering may include mixing media where the media may include DRM restrictions and or no DRM restrictions. As an example co rendering may act to blend media from multiple files. As an example volume may be independently set for individual files. As an example processing may be performed in at least in part independently for individual files and or processing may be performed for mixed information that includes information e.g. optionally processed from multiple files. Co rendering can include rendering of information where the information includes information from multiple files. As an example co rendering can include rendering of information of a file where a portion of the information of the file has been processed to alter that portion of information and where another portion of information of the file may be combined e.g. mixed with that portion which may optionally be itself altered. In such an example the two portions may be streams. As an example a stream may be considered to be information of a file where it includes information e.g. digital information that may be stored in one or more media e.g. stored in memory . Thus as an example multiple streams may be considered to be information of multiple files. As an example multiple streams may be considered to be data of multiple files e.g. data of a first file and data of a second file etc. .

As an example a file may be a digital file such as a MIDI file e.g. a digital data file . MIDI files may be formatted according to a file format that can provide for sequences to be saved transported opened etc. As an example a device may be configured to render information from a MIDI file optionally as a layer. As an example a device may be configured to generate a MIDI file e.g. to store and use as a layer . As an example a device may be configured to receive MIDI information via a wireless interface. For example consider a MIDI controller e.g. MIDI keyboard that can transmit information to a device wirelessly where the device may be carried by a turntable see e.g. the system of . In such an example a turntablist may add tracks effects samples etc. via the MIDI controller and optionally morph control rendering thereof via the turntable e.g. via rotations bumps etc. . While MIDI is mentioned a device may operate via one or more other technologies and be configured to transmit information wirelessly to a device carried by a turntable.

As an example a method can include sensing acceleration adjusting one or more parameters of audio circuitry and rendering audio data via the audio circuitry. For example the acceleration may be acceleration associated with rotation that causes one or more directional acceleration sensing circuits of a rotated accelerometer to experience force. In such an example a rotation direction e.g. clockwise or counter clockwise may be determined and used to adjust a playback direction parameter e.g. to render audio data in a forward direction or in a reverse direction .

As an example a method can include sensing acceleration and adjusting one or more parameters of illumination circuitry. For example the acceleration may be acceleration associated with rotation that causes one or more directional acceleration sensing circuits of a rotated accelerometer to experience force. In such an example a rotation direction e.g. clockwise or counter clockwise may be determined and used to adjust a flash parameter e.g. that triggers a flash sets intensity of a flash synchronizes a flash with an audio signal etc. .

As an example a method can include triggering a flash responsive to rotation of a cellular phone disposed in a seat of a turntable. In such an example the seat may be operatively coupled to one or more waveguides that can transmit electromagnetic energy generated by the flash. As an example a waveguide may be an optical fiber a layer of optically conductive material etc.

As an example a method can include sensing rotation of a display device seated in a turntable altering rendering of audio data based at least in part thereon and triggering a flash circuit to illuminate at least a portion of the turntable. In such an example the method may include maintaining a reference frame for information rendered to the display that is immune to rotation of the display device. As an example the information rendered to the display may be associated with rendering of audio data etc.

As an example a method can include altering audio using sensed information associated with acceleration direction velocity orientation for one or more durations of time. In such an example the method may include recording altered settings and or altered audio and for example setting one or more loops that may be implemented for example by actuating a graphical control such as a playback control e.g. playback button . As an example during looping a method may include playing one or more new audio files which may be controlled via turntable based gesture input acceleration direction velocity orientation for example on top of the looping audio. Such an approach may be referred to as layering for example where separate audio may be layered to include a number of sounds playing over one another. As an example on top of audio layers a new audio layer may be added that is actively affected by the rotation direction velocity and orientation of an electronic device seated in a turntable.

As an example a device may be configured to record a duration of sound produced through spinning of the device then layering media on top of one another with the top layer being actively changed by the motions of a turntable to which the device is fixed.

As an example a system that includes a device seated in a turntable may play activate a selected audio file by bumping or agitating the device as it lay in a recess of the turntable. For example such effects may be generated in relation to slapping or shocking the turntable e.g. optionally in addition to spinning .

As an example a device may include one or more sound libraries and or network access to one or more sound libraries. As an example an application may include instructions and media for example one or more sound clips. As an example an application may include a module for voice recording and optionally storage and playback of a voice recording.

As an example a device may be configured with an application that provides an ability to change one or more graphics that may be rendered to a display of the device optionally while the device is rendering media. As an example a blue spiral may be rendered to a display where the spiral remains visually stable even as the device is rotated e.g. as seated in a turntable . As an example a graphic may be a pre packaged graphic available with an application or a graphic accessible via a network e.g. for download . As an example where a device includes camera and or video circuitry media captured by such circuitry may be selectable optionally via a media library and or live.

As an example a GUI may include one or more portions that disappear responsive to sensed motion. For example a control GUI may be less aesthetically pleasing than a graphic that fits a style of music. Such an approach can provide a clean look e.g. emulating a vinyl record when a turntable is in motion. As an example when spinning stops a GUI may visually reappear e.g. optionally after a brief delay and a user may thereby re engage with one or more of controls of the GUI. Once reengaged by motion the GUI may disappear again.

As an example a turntable may be configured for receipt of a device that includes one or more game applications.

In reference numeral shows a perspective view of a turntable our design where broken lines in the drawing are environmental structure or boundaries that form no part of a claimed design. The characteristic feature of the design resides in a turntable with illumination openings and concentric surface ridges. In the example identified by reference numeral light rays can be emitted from the illumination openings. Light rays may be shown as for example broken lines where the turntable may be an illuminating turntable. The design may vary with respect to time based at least in part on control of an illumination source. As an example the broken lines illustrate a device that can include an illumination source. As an example an illumination source may be a flash of a device such as a cellular phone a tablet or other electronic device.

In reference numeral shows a perspective view of a turntable our design where broken lines in the drawing are environmental structure or boundaries that form no part of a claimed design. The characteristic feature of the design resides in a turntable with an electronic device seated at least partially in a recess of the turntable.

In reference numeral shows a perspective view of a turntable our design where broken lines in the drawing are environmental structure or boundaries that form no part of a claimed design. The characteristic feature of the design resides in a turntable with illumination openings. In the example identified by reference numeral light rays can be emitted from the illumination openings. Light rays may be shown as for example broken lines where the turntable may be an illuminating turntable. The design may vary with respect to time based at least in part on control of an illumination source. As an example the broken lines illustrate a device that can be seated at least partially in a recess of the turntable where the device includes an illumination source. As an example an illumination source may be a flash of a device such as a cellular phone a tablet or other electronic device.

In reference numeral shows a perspective view of a turntable our design where broken lines in the drawing are environmental structure or boundaries that form no part of a claimed design. The characteristic feature of the design resides in a turntable with concentric surface ridges. As an example the broken lines illustrate a device that can be seated at least partially in a recess of the turntable.

In reference numeral shows a perspective view of a turntable our design where broken lines in the drawing are environmental structure or boundaries that form no part of a claimed design. As an example the broken lines illustrate a device that can be seated at least partially in a recess of the turntable. Such a device can include a display for example as shown in broken lines. In such an example the display can be used to visually render icon images. For example an icon image may be an image of a graphical user interface GUI . As an example the turntable identified by reference numeral may include an electronic device that includes graphics circuitry that can render images to a display panel of the electronic device where the images are one or more computer icon images of . The characteristic feature of a design can resides in a turntable with an electronic device with a display panel and one or more computer icon images such as for example one or more of the computer icon images of e.g. or or .

In reference numeral shows a plan view of a turntable our design where broken lines in the drawing are environmental structure or boundaries that form no part of a claimed design. The article of manufacture of identified by reference numeral may be understood for example with respect to at least . The characteristic feature of the design resides in a turntable with concentric surface ridges and illumination openings. The broken lines illustrate a recess that can at least partially receive and seat an electronic device where the electronic device can include a flash unit that can emit electromagnetic energy at a position that corresponds to a port illustrated as being in the left side of the recess. The port may couple via one or more waveguides electromagnetic energy to at least some of the illumination openings. The broken lines at the right side of the recess illustrate supplemental recesses that can be aligned with one or more speakers of an electronic device that is at least partially received and seated in the recess.

The computer icon image of includes a commencement graphic that illustrates a user positioning an electronic device such as the device itself into a turntable that includes a recess. The graphic can include instructions such as use Bluetooth or use AirPlay which are wireless technologies that can transmit signals to for example a receiver that can amplify the signals and direct amplified signals optionally digitally processed to one or more speakers.

In the example of the computer icon image can include one or more slider graphical user controls. For example consider a music volume control and an overlay volume control.

As an example an electronic device seated with respect to a turntable can include a rotation speed that may be one of a standard rotation speed of existing technology. For example consider vinyl record speeds of 33 RPM 45 RPM and 78 RPM and optionally one or more other speeds e.g. 15 RPM . Such speeds may correspond to spinning of a record player such as a record player to which a turntablist may be accustomed to using. For example consider a turntablist that uses a record player with 45 s and that is accustomed to clockwise and counter clockwise rotations of the turntable of the record player to make certain sounds from a 45 RPM record. By selecting the 45 RPM speed as a table rotation speed as shown in the turntable that carries the electronic device may mimic the behavior of the record player e.g. with a 45 RPM record . In such a manner a turntablist may more readily adapt to a turntable such as the system of .

As an example an electronic device can include memory that stores one or more audio files. As an example the computer icon image may provide for access to the one or more stored audio files for example as one or more files of one or more audio file libraries. For example consider a selected sample library a my recordings library and a samples library. As an example a graphical user interface may allow for editing or recording via actuation of an edit control or a record control.

In the example of various features are shown such as for example a flash feature a loop the music feature a show rotation speed feature a show position in overlay feature a background color feature a bump sound selection feature and a privacy policy feature. As an example these features may control circuitry. For example the flash feature may toggle circuitry operatively coupled to a flash unit e.g. on off . As an example the bump feature may include a bump slider to control volume of a bump sound. For example as mentioned motion sensing circuitry of an electronic device carried by a turntable may respond to motion to generate a bump sound. A bump sound may be a sound that is not a rotational sound e.g. a sound that is generated responsive to rotation of a turntable . Thus a user may rotate a turntable to generate one sound and may bump the turntable e.g. non rotational movement about an axis of rotation to generate another sound e.g. a bump sound .

As an example an electronic device carried by a turntable can include circuitry for playing music circuitry for playing one or more overlays over the music where at least one of the overlays is controlled via rotation of the turntable and for example circuitry for playing one or more bump sounds at least over the music or at least over at least one overlay where the one or more bump sounds are controlled via tilting bumping jarring etc. the turntable such that the rotational axis of the turntable may tilt or such that motion sensing circuitry senses such input as being at least in part non rotational input.

As an example an assembly can include a base and a turntable rotatably coupled to the base where the turntable includes an optical port a mount that positions an electronic device with respect to the optical port and at least one waveguide operatively coupled to the optical port. In such an example the mount may be or include a rectangular recess where for example the optical port is disposed in a floor of the rectangular recess.

As an example the at least one waveguide can be or include an optical fiber. As an example a waveguide can include a polymer or polymers. As an example consider poly methyl 2 methylpropenoate and or polycarbonate. As an example a thermoplastic polymer may be used to form a waveguide.

As an example an assembly can include a turntable that includes at least one opening configured for emission of light carried by at least one of the at least one waveguide.

As an example a device can include a processor memory operatively coupled to the processor a display operatively coupled to the processor media player circuitry operatively coupled to the processor motion sensing circuitry operatively coupled to the processor and one or more modules stored in the memory where the one or more modules include processor executable instructions to instruct the media player circuitry to co render data of a first media file and data of a second media file where the data of the second media file is rendered based at least in part on output of the motion sensing circuitry. As an example such a device may include a power source such as for example a battery or batteries. As an example such a device may be suitable for mounting by a mount of a turntable which may be or include for example a recess e.g. as a mount .

As an example a device can include a flash unit or flash units e.g. flash circuitry . As an example one or more modules may be stored in memory and include processor executable instructions to instruct a flash unit to flash based at least in part on output of motion sensing circuitry.

As an example a device may co render a first media file that may be for example a song file and a second media file that may be for example a sample file. As an example a device may be a turntablist device that can co render media files as layers. For example a song file may be a layer over which a sample file is rendered as an overlay layer. As an example a sample file may be recorded via a process known as sampling.

As an example a device can include audio recording circuitry. As an example a device can include a touch sensitive display.

As an example a device can include one or more modules stored in memory of the device where the one or more modules include processor executable instructions to instruct a display of the device e.g. via display circuitry to display information e.g. to visually render information based at least in part on output of the motion sensing circuitry.

As an example a device can include wireless communication circuitry that can communicate audio information and optionally other information. For example the device may be a transmitter that transmits audio information to a receiver where the receiver may include one or more speakers operatively coupled thereto for generating acoustic waves based at least in part on at least a portion of the audio information.

As an example a device can include a central axis and motion sensing circuitry of the device can output information responsive to clockwise and counter clockwise rotation of the device about its central axis. In such an example the device may be a smart phone e.g. an Android phone an iOS phone etc. that can execute an operating system for running one or more applications .

As an example a device can include a processor memory operatively coupled to the processor a display operatively coupled to the processor media player circuitry operatively coupled to the processor motion sensing circuitry operatively coupled to the processor and one or more modules stored in the memory where the one or more modules include processor executable instructions to instruct the media player circuitry to co render data of a first media file and data of a second media file where the data of the second media file is rendered forward or backward responsive to output of the motion sensing circuitry that indicates that the device is rotated clockwise or counter clockwise. In such an example the device may be a smart phone e.g. an Android phone an iOS phone etc. that can execute an operating system for running one or more applications .

As an example one or more computer readable media that are not carrier waves can include processor executable instructions to instruct a smart phone to co render data of a first audio file and data of a second audio file where the data of the first media file is rendered at a predetermined rate and where the data of the second media file is rendered at a rate that is based at least in part on rotation of the smart phone within a geometrical plane. In such an example processor executable instructions can be included to instruct the smart phone to co render data of a third audio file based at least in part on motion of the smart phone other than rotation of the smart phone within the geometrical plane.

Although various examples of methods devices systems designs etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as examples of forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems designs etc.

