---

title: Method and system for estimation and extraction of interference noise from signals
abstract: A system for reception of electromagnetic waves in spectrum in which interference occurs comprising at least one transmitter; at least one receiver configured to receive the received signal; a first memory portion configured to store data relating to a point target response; a spectrum estimator configured to estimate the frequencies at which interfering signals occur; at least one processor configured to generate an estimation of the interfering signals at the frequencies estimated by the spectrum estimator; a second memory portion operatively connected to the at least one processor configured to store the estimation of the components of the interfering signals; the at least one processor configured to substantially reduce or eliminate radio frequency interfering signals from the received signal utilizing the point target response and the estimation of the interfering signals; and a method to substantially reduce or eliminate radio frequency interfering signals from for image data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363024&OS=09363024&RS=09363024
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09363024
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140806
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 891 050 entitled Method and System for Removal of Noise in Signal by Lam H. Nguyen and Trac D. Tran filed May 9 2013 ARL 11 77 CIP2 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 172 476 which is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 477 282 entitled Method and System for Recovery of Missing Spectral Information in Wideband Signal by Lam H. Nguyen and Thong Do filed May 22 2012 ARL 11 77CIP now U.S. Pat. No. 8 824 544 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 416 062 entitled Apparatus and Method for Sampling and Reconstruction of Wide Bandwidth Signals below Nyquist Rate by Lam H. Nguyen and Trac D. Tran filed Mar. 9 2012 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference now U.S. Pat. No. 8 861 588.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The present invention relates to inter alia noise extraction from a signal. The signal may be used for example in the generation of images from projection measurements. Examples of images generated from projection measurements include two dimensional and three dimensional SAR synthetic aperture radar systems such as that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 805 098 to McCorkle hereby incorporated by reference wherein an aircraft mounted detector array is utilized to take ground radar measurements. Other examples of systems relating to noise extraction from a signal include fault inspection systems using acoustic imaging submarine sonar for imaging underwater objects imaging systems for tunnel detection oil exploration geological surveys etc. and medical diagnostic tools such as sonograms echocardiograms x ray CAT computer aided tomography equipment and MRI magnetic resonance imaging equipment.

The U.S. Army has been developing low frequency ultra wideband systems to detect targets in foliage explosive devices buried in the ground moving targets behind walls or barriers sensing through the wall . Such systems operate in the low frequency spectrum than spans from under 100 MHz to several GHz in order to have penetration capability while maintaining high image resolution. Therefore these systems must operate in the low frequency spectrum that spans from under 100 MHz to several GHz in order to achieve the penetration capability. A critical challenge for ultra wideband radar is that collected radar information is corrupted in both the time and frequency domain by radio frequency interference RFI signals within the operating spectrum of UWB radar as the signal occupies a wide spectrum that is also shared by radio TV cellular phone wireless networking amateur radio and other systems. Because of this interference the received signal contains spectral content that includes many frequency subbands that are corrupted by energy from all other sources. Within these corrupted subbands the energy of the received signal is much smaller than that from the interference sources since the interfering signals are essentially large amplitude noise that often masks the underlying radar signals. In the time domain the signal is very noisy and might be embedded in the noise floor. Except for targets with very large amplitudes targets may not be detectable in the presence of interference noise. Conventional techniques usually detect the corrupted frequency bands due to the interference sources by searching for the spikes in the spectral domain. The fast Fourier transform FFT bins that correspond to the contaminated frequency bands are zeroed out. This technique results in severe sidelobes in the time or spatial domain of the output data and imagery due to the sharp transitions frequency samples with no information in the frequency domain. In addition simply suppressing the information in the contaminated frequency bands will reduce the signal to noise ratio SNR of the received signal.

One noise suppression technique that has been widely employed in practice involves implementing adaptive notch filters whose notches in the frequency domain correspond to interference noise components to suppress the energy from interference noise signals. Depending on the nature of interference noise sources the notch filter approach generally results in i large sidelobes in the time domain of the received signal and ii reduced target amplitudes since our transmitted radar signals are UWB and notching partially eliminates the radar signals of interest. It is generally more desirable to extract the interference noise from signal directly in the time domain for best performance. To avoid the side effects of the notch filter implementation Timothy Miller et al. in the publication entitled RFI Suppression for Ultra Wideband Radar IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems vol. 33 no. 4 October 1997 herein incorporated by reference proposed an interference noise suppression technique that estimates the noise components and subtracts in the time domain the estimated noise signal from the received radar signal. However the technique requires complete knowledge of the interference sources. The technique is based on the assumption that the interference sources consist of a number of narrowband amplitude modulation AM and frequency modulation FM channels. This assumption is no longer valid with the current frequency spectrum in which most of the communications and TV channels are broadcasting using various digital modulation schemes. Within each communications channel the radio frequency RF signal looks like white noise in the time domain with its amplitude and phase quickly varying with respect to time. Thus it is not practical to use the Miller technique to estimate these RF interference RFI components with digital modulation contents. Besides parametric noise modeling spectral decomposition and adaptive filtering have also been explored to solve the RFI problem and so far have yielded limited successes. Most can only provide acceptable results with one particular source of RFI.

The present invention is directed to system for reception of electromagnetic waves in spectrum in which interference with radio frequencies of other electronics devices occurs comprising 

at least one transmitter configured to transmit signals at a wide range of frequencies including frequencies in which RF devices transmit 

a first memory portion configured to store data relating to a point target response of the system derived from the transmitted signals 

at least one processor operatively connected to the receiver the first memory portion and the spectrum estimator the at least one processor configured to generate an estimation of the interfering signals at the frequencies estimated by the spectrum estimator 

a second memory portion operatively connected to the at least one processor configured to store the estimation of the components of the interfering signals the at least one processor configured to substantially reduce or eliminate radio frequency interfering signals from the received signal utilizing the point target response from the first memory portion and the estimation of the interfering signals from the second memory portion.

An alternate preferred embodiment system for reception of electromagnetic waves in spectrum in which interference with radio frequencies of other electronics devices occurs comprises 

at least one transmitter configured to transmit signals at a wide range of frequencies including frequencies in which RF devices transmit 

a first memory portion configured to store data relating to a point target response of the system derived from the transmitted signals 

at least one processor operatively connected to the receiver the first memory portion and the spectrum estimator the at least one processor configured to generate an estimation of the interfering signals at the frequencies estimated by the spectrum estimator 

a second memory portion operatively connected to the at least one processor configured to store the estimation of the components of the interfering signals 

the at least one processor configured to substantially reduce or eliminate radio frequency interfering signals from the received signal by utilizing an optimization process in conjunction with the point target response from the first memory portion and the estimation of the components of the interfering signals from the second memory portion to jointly determine a composite response of the target or targets from a scene of interest.

The present invention is also directed to a method for obtaining image data utilizing the transmission of electromagnetic waves in spectrum in which interference with electromagnetic waves at various frequencies occurs comprising 

transmitting signals into a target area having a wide frequency range including frequencies in which other RF devices transmit 

using the at least one receiver receiving a signal comprising the reflection of the transmitted signals and interfering signal data from other RF devices 

providing a first memory portion for storing replicas of the point target response signal operatively associated with the at least one processor 

providing a spectrum estimator operatively associated with the at least one receiver and the at least one processor configured to identify the frequency bands at which interfering signals occupy 

generating an estimation of the interfering signals at the frequencies estimated by the spectrum estimator for storage in the second memory portion 

matching the receive signal with stored replicas of the point target response and extracting data relating to the interfering signals from the received signal to determine a composite response of the target or targets from a scene of interest.

In conjunction with the above preferred embodiment systems and method as an option the spectrum estimator may operate to determine interfering signals such as jamming signals noise cross talk cell phones citizen band radios television radio and radar. In addition the estimation of the components of the interfering signal stored in the second memory may be generated using sinusoidal representations. In addition the at least one processor may be configured to utilize an optimization process in conjunction with the sinusoidal representations to determine amplitudes and frequency locations of the noise components in the received signal. As a further option the at least one processor may be configured to use an optimization process in conjunction with the point target response from the first memory portion and the components of the interfering signal from the second memory portion to jointly determine a composite response of the target or targets from a scene of interest and the estimated interfering signals. The optimization process may be one of orthogonal matching pursuit basis pursuit gradient projection matching pursuit orthogonal matching pursuit regularized matching pursuit or subspace pursuit. As a further option the sinusoidal representations may be generated using the equation cos 2 sin 2 0 1 where j is the index for the RFI frequency band f j is the lowest frequency of the detected band k is the frequency index fis the frequency increment Nis the total number of sine and cosine pairs within the RFI frequency band and wherein components of Dare concatenated for insertion into the second memory portion.

As another option the first memory portion may be constructed using phase shifted replicas of the point target response which correspond to received signals reflected back from objects in the scene of interest located at specific distances and the at least one processor may be configured to match the receive data with stored replicas of the point target response to determine a composite response of the target or targets from a scene of interest.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second elements these terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus a first element could be termed a second element without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a sparse recovery model and reconstruction scheme. The invention allows the reconstruction of a wideband signal following the extraction of RFI noise.

Although the invention is demonstrated with the application of this technique to radar applications the noise extraction technique of the present invention also works with other communication systems including television reception and transmission headphones with noise filters and other communications devices especially ones that employ ultra high frequency modulation schemes.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 477 282 282 Application entitled Method and System for Recovery of Missing Spectral Information in Wideband Signal by Lam H. Nguyen and Thong Do filed May 22 2012 ARL 11 77CIP now U.S. Pat. No. 8 824 544 to which priority is being claimed discloses a sparsity driven technique that directly estimates the interference noise components in the time domain and extracts them from radar data. In the 282 Application a first memory or dictionary comprises time shifted responses based upon the wide band signal responses and a second memory or dictionary comprises a plurality of spectrally filtered time shifted responses. The first and second memories or dictionaries operate to provide data to the processor to compensate for the information missing at the plurality of frequencies.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 891 050 050 a continuation in part of the 282 application to which priority is also claimed entitled Method and System for Removal of Noise in Signal filed May 9 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 172 476 discloses a system comprising inter alia a processor a first memory or dictionary for storing transmitted signal waveforms a second memory or dictionary for storing RF interfering signal data and a switch for periodically allowing the RF interfering signal data to enter the second memory portion from the receiver. The processor operates to process the received signal containing RF interfering signal data by matching the received signal against data relating to the transmitted signal waveforms from the first memory portion or dictionary and RF interfering signal data from the second memory portion or dictionary and extract the RF interfering signal data. The time domain extraction of RFI noise does not result in i large side lobes in the time domain of the received signal and ii reduced target amplitudes and are adaptive to a changing environment.

Unfortunately the technique of the 050 Application has a significant drawback as the radar system has to continuously monitor the surrounding environment in order to build a sparse representation dictionary for the interference sources. In order to determine the background noise the system disclosed in the 050 Application incorporates noise only intervals that occur when the transmitter is turned off and the data switch sends the noise signals to the memory buffer in which dictionary resides via channel to construct a noise dictionary. During the standard radar transmit and receive cycle a pulse repetition frequency PRF is established where the signal is first transmitted by the transmitter. Depending upon the range or distance in which targets are to be detected the receiver waits a time interval t 2R c where R is the range and c is the speed of light. During the operation of the 050 Application system however after a certain number of PRF cycles transmission is stopped and the noise is observed whereupon the data switch is programmed to allow noise data to enter the noise dictionary. Noise data from the noise signal i.e. the return signal occurring when no transmission from the transmitter is taking place is entered into a first column of a noise dictionary the noise dictionary using a shifted window mechanism or approach. To enter the second column the window is effectively shifted a minute amount and the second column is data realized from the shifted interval of the noise signal. Similarly columns of noise data are entered into the noise dictionary during the time interval when the switch diverts the data from the signal recovery processor into the noise dictionary. Noise data using the sliding window approach may be entered by an additional processor or processor or such operations may be performed by the signal recovery processor. Since the noise in the return signal is detected during the intervals during which the transmitter does not transmit there is no signal component present in the return signal. Since the signal may be transmitted and received in a matter of nanoseconds the interval between the PRF cycles and the reception of the noise only signal for the purposes of entering data into the noise dictionary may occur within a matter of nanoseconds or tens of nanoseconds. At other intervals when the transmitter are turned on the data switch allows the received signals that include noisy radar signals to pass to the signal recovery processor for processing. In addition to the noise dictionary the 050 Application discloses another dictionary that includes many time shifted versions of the transmitted waveform which may be stored columns beginning with data at the beginning of the range of interest. For example if the range of interest is between 1000 meters to 5000 meters the first column of data in the signal dictionary may be a pulse representing the appearance of a target at 1000 meters. In the 050 Application the signal recovery processor utilizes the noise dictionary to estimate and extract the noise signal components from the noisy receive signals to generate clean radar signals. Specifically the lower or noise dictionary includes the column of noise data which are to be extracted out of the processed signal in combination with the processing of the time shifted versions of the transmitted waveform included in the other dictionary. The output of the signal recovery processor is the received signal with reduced noise level. In the 050 Application the output signals from the signal recovery processor are sent to the image processor and subsequently to the target detection and discrimination. The resulting synthetic aperture radar SAR image and detection information are then visualized by the display. A further description of the image formation is found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 796 829 entitled Method and System for Forming an Image with Enhanced Contrast and or Reduced Noise by Lam H. Nguyen and Jeffrey Sichina issued Sep. 14 2010 herein incorporated by reference.

The process of monitoring of the environment by turning the radar transmitter off occasionally while leaving the receiver on is known as sniffing. Whenever the radar system is in the sniffing stage i.e. with the transmitter turned off the receiver collects only the vital information on the interference since there is no radar signal present . However even this simple sniffing solution still has two weaknesses i it increases the complexity of the system control and ii it reduces the system s effective pulse repetition frequency PRF . In order to capture the interference characteristics accurately the sniffing frequency must be increased and the system s PRF decreases significantly. On the other hand if the amount of sniffing is minimized then the interference modeling will not be as precise. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of this invention sniffing is no longer needed. Instead the interference sources are modeled as a sparse linear combination of a few active cosine and sine waves whose frequencies are estimated directly from past collected radar data.

Using a preferred embodiment and method of the present invention the influence of noise signals is effectively removed from radar signals via sparse recovery using a technique that models the interference as a sparse linear combination of cosine and sine waves tones of various frequencies. The RFI frequency coverage range is estimated from previously collected radar data in common operation mode resulting in the elimination of the sniffing stage. Instead of notching out the sub bands or frequency ranges that are RFI dominant a joint sparse recovery optimization is employed in which the RFI dominant sub bands are represented by a dictionary of cosine sine tones whereas the radar signals are captured by a signal dictionary constructed from the transmitted radar signal at different phase shifts. With these two sparsifying dictionaries sparse recovery optimization automatically separates the interference noise components from the radar signal components in the time domain and hence the RFI sources are extracted from the radar data. Advantages of this technique are that the time domain extraction of RFI noise does not result in i large sidelobes in the time domain of the received signal and ii reduced target amplitudes. Another advantage is that it is completely adaptive with the changing environment and does not assume any prior knowledge amplitude frequency band modulation scheme etc. of the interference sources. In other words the invented technique simultaneously estimates i the radar signal and ii the interference noise signal both of which have been mixed together in the raw data observation. Lastly the preferred embodiment radar system does not require monitoring or sniffing of the noise signals in the environment.

The signal recovery processor uses two dictionaries and . The dictionary includes the phase shifted versions of the radar point target response which is defined as the system s response to a point target of interest. More precisely this point target response is the reconstructed signal at the receiver output from a point like target in the surveyed scene. The point target response can be represented in time domain s t or in frequency domain S f where S f is the Fourier transform of s t . S f also occupies the same frequency band of the radar transmit signal. The dictionary includes the interference noise signals modeled as pure cosine and sine waveforms at various frequency bands which have been detected as interference dominant by the RFI spectrum estimator which is a processor which looks for the spikes in the received spectrum and obtains all the bands of the noise i.e. the frequency location of the interference. In a preferred embodiment the spectrum estimator may operate on all of the received signals go through the spectrum estimator . The system may be adaptive in that multiple receivers may be utilized and if one receiver is receiving excessive noise the surrounding receivers may be relied on to compensate for the receiver receiving excessive noise. Moreover the spectrum estimator may store the data previously received and average the present spectrum with the past spectrums. The signal recovery processor estimates separates and extracts the noise signal components from the raw received signals to generate clean radar signals. For a typical communications system the output signals would be processed by a detector. In this radar block diagram the output signals are sent to the image processor and target detection and classification . The resulting radar data image and detection information are then visualized by the display .

The preferred embodiment technique separates the noise signals from radar signals via sparse recovery. This technique directly estimates and subtracts noise signals from the contaminated radar signals. Therefore it does not suffer from either high sidelobe or reduced target amplitude effects as in existing notch filtering approaches. Additionally the technique is completely adaptive with the changing environment and does not assume any knowledge amplitude frequency band modulation scheme how many interference sources are present etc. of the interference sources. The technique is based on a sparse recovery approach that simultaneously solves for i radar signals embedded in noise with large amplitudes and ii interference noise signals.

The following sparse signal sparse noise model is utilized for the received radar data record y where i can be considered as the pulse repetition interval PRI index . 1 

In this model the original SAR signal xat the i th aperture is assumed to be sparse with respect to Dthe phase shifted dictionary constructed from our transmitted signal s. The received signal yis often contaminated by various different noise sources modeled here as the RFI rand the dense white noise w. The latter noise component is the common thermal atmospheric mechanical noise that exists in any radar and communication system. It is usually modeled as dense Gaussian white noise that is fortunately negligible magnitude wise. In other words win equation 1 has small bounded energy w . The RFI rnoise component is the radio frequency interference that is significant. The main difference between the two noise sources here is that ris sparse with a properly designed RFI noise dictionary and can be captured with only a few significant entries but each can be large in magnitude whereas wis dense and generally insignificant in magnitude.

RFI sources typically are frequency sparse compared to the full bandwidth of the radar signals. The frequency sparse feature of RFI can be easily explained most modern communication systems rely on modulation to various higher frequencies for data transmission and broadcasting and each system typically occupies only a few MHz of the spectrum. As a generalized estimation the RFI noise sources rcan be captured effectively with its own sparse representation as r De where Dis the adaptive RFI noise sparsifying dictionary constructed from cosine and sine waveforms.

The first step to construct the RFI dictionary is to exploit important prior knowledge obtained from an RFI spectrum estimator . This system component takes advantage of the long term frequency correlation structure of common RFI source to provide a rough estimate of frequency bands that are most likely to contain RFI. One particular solution is to average the spectrum of the received radar signals yover many apertures within a reasonable spatial temporal window. More precisely when processing the received radar signal yat aperture position indexed by i a certain P number of past received signals can be borrowed to form the estimated local spectrum average Y f at the i th location as

This averaging process identifies the location of the most persistent RFI sources as local peaks maxima in the overall observed spectrum. Popular local maxima identification algorithms can then be applied iteratively to locate frequency bands that contain persistent RFI components. illustrates an example of this RFI detection process where red asterisks provide markers for likely RFI dominant locations in the operating frequency spectrum. More specifically only sinusoids in frequency bands identified by the RFI spectrum estimator for example those marked by the red circles in are retained in the RFI dictionary D.

Referring again to the spectrum estimator detects Mfrequency bands that are associated with RFI. The jRFI band j 1 . . . M spans the frequency range from f j to f j . For each detected RFI frequency band a number of pairs of sine and cosine tones waveforms are generated to form the sub dictionary for this RFI band. The RFI dictionary comprises cosine and sine waveforms within the frequency range identified as RFI contaminated from the RFI spectrum estimator .

 1 Averaging the frequency spectrum of the received signals from P neighboring apertures P is a parameter that can be controlled frequency bands with significant RFI energy will emerge from the averaging operation 

 2 Filling the RFI dictionary with frequency regions that contain local peaks maxima as shown in regions in red which are RFI contaminated contain local peaks .

Cosine and sine waves in the regions marked by the color red in become the atoms columns of the estimated noise dictionary . The followed up sparse recovery optimization algorithm based on the familiar OMP algorithm that you have seen multiple times remains exactly the same. This optimization is the step where RFI is separated and then suppressed.

Where the frequency increment between two adjacent tones in the RFI dictionary is f the number of pairs of cosine and sine waveforms to be generated for each RFI band is

The RFI sub dictionary that corresponds to the jRFI band from f j to f j . cos 2 sin 2 0 1 Equation 2A where for every RFI frequency band that is detected indexed by j f j is the lowest frequency limit of the detected band and f j is the highest frequency limit of the RFI frequency band. The values of Dare computed from the above equation form the columns for the dictionary such as for example elements and . Note that the elements represent only examples of elements in . A more complete versions is illustrated in which contains estimations of the RFI noise component computed using the following Equation 2B.

The RFI dictionary for the iaperture position is the concatenation of all RFI sub dictionaries Equation 2B where j 1 2 . . . j . . . M. As shown in the arrangement depicted in the entries derived from equation 2A are placed vertically as vectors beginning from the lowest frequency band index 1 to the highest frequency band index M.

The steps to construct the RFI dictionary are i the RFI spectrum analyzer estimator estimates the frequency bands that the RFI signals occupy as mentioned above for example f j and f j for the detected frequency band j ii for each detected RFI frequency band the sub dictionary for this RFI band is constructed by generating pairs of sine and cosine waveforms that spans the frequencies within that band j i.e. the above equation is solved for the matrix D and iii the RFI dictionary is constructed by concatenating all RFI sub dictionaries for each frequency band j generated in previous step . The matrix Dis illustrated in box of which contains pairs of sines and cosines spanning the frequencies of the MRFI bands as indexed by j from 0 to M where M is the total number of detected RFI frequency bands. Note that the RFI dictionary Dis adaptive. Since the detected RFI frequency bands are data dependent the RFI dictionary is changed with time. Note that more sophisticated techniques or available prior information can be taken into account to further improve the RFI dictionary as described above.

It is important to note that although the observed scene might be complex with many objects the complexity M of the receive data record is significantly reduced since the reflections from all targets that have the same range distance from the radar transmitter receiver would be represented by a single reflection coefficient and phase. The publication by Lam Nguyen and Trac Tran Robust Recovery of Synthetic Aperture Radar Data from Uniformly Under Sampled Measurements IEEE IGARSS Jun. 28 2011 hereby incorporated by reference describes how the model can robustly represent real SAR data and is herein incorporated by reference.

Referring now to the dictionary this dictionary is constructed from phase shifted versions of the point target response signal. In the absence of interference sources the received signal would be simply the summation of reflections of all targets within the radar s range swath and beamwidth i.e. ideally the received signal would be composed of a linear combination of delayed and weighted replicas of the point target response. For example in time domain the received signal would be 

Once the two sparsifying dictionaries and are obtained two sparse representations at each aperture i one for the radar signal xand the other for the RFI component rmay be simultaneously requested. This leads to the following optimization problem which can be solved approximately with orthogonal matching pursuit OMP whose detailed operation steps are shown in .

The following relaxed convex optimization problem is also implemented where and are tuning parameters that control the trade offs between the sparsity priors and the observation consistency constraint as described further in

Note that in both formulations of Equations 4 and 4A the entries in both dictionaries should be normalized. Hence the optimization is not dependent on the noise energy level if the parameters and are pre determined appropriately. The resulting noise suppressed signal can then be computed as x y De . Each data record that is expected to contain the SAR signal of interest is recovered independently. All are then supplied to the image processor to produce the final SAR image. summarizes the extracting of the noise contents and reconstruction of the processed radar data

In Box of a phase shifted dictionary is generated. This may occur on a one time basis at the start of operations or may be updated as desired to reflect changes in the target area or target range. The circle represents the step of inputting the phase shifted data into the dictionary . In Box the receiver is operational to receive either waveforms reflected from targets in combination with noise . Box represents the updating of the noise data constructed from cosines and sines of frequencies supplied from RFI spectrum estimation into the dictionary . Continuing in the flow chart of in Box using the data from both dictionaries and the system solves for the sparse solution that represents both noise and data as represented mathematically by the equation in Box .

Continuing in the description of the flow chart of in Box the noise contents is reconstructed as Deand in Box the signal is reconstructed by extracting the estimated noise contents as x y Dewhere the dense noise win equation 1 has been ignored. The steps through are then repeated with the acquisition of new data in another aperture in order to form a complete image. Box represents the image formulation and Box represents the display of the final SAR image. Reference is made to U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0141508 herein incorporated by reference for the further information relating to Boxes and .

A number of recovery techniques in the current Compressed Sensing CS literature can be employed to solve the optimization problem in Equation 4A . In a preferred embodiment Orthogonal Matching Pursuit OMP was used due to its simplicity recovery robustness and fast computation. OMP is also very simple to set up the only required parameter is the sparsity level K. Once the sparsest coefficient vector is found the raw data record is recovered as in Equation 4A . All of the recovered data records are then supplied to the back projection image formation algorithm to produce the final SAR image.

The noise extraction technique of the present invention was tested and evaluated using the data from the U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL UWB low frequency SAR that transmits radar signals occupying the frequency spectrum from 50 to 1150 MHz. Interference noise data was collected from the real environment with the antenna pointing toward Washington D.C. where a typical example is shown in . For each aperture location i where radar data are collected the noise record was randomly selected and added to the raw radar data record. shows a group of raw radar data records that are corrupted by the interference noise before image formation . Without employing the invented noise extraction technique the data set of is sent to the image formation stage to form the noisy radar image that is shown in . The image of does not show any features from the scene since it is dominated by the high level of noise. This illustrates the severe impact of the interference noise on radar imagery. Next the data set of is processed using the invented noise extraction technique. Each column vertical line in the image shown in represents a raw radar record that is contaminated with RFI. The record is color coded using the dB amplitude scale shown by the color bar. Since the RFI noise level is very high compared to the radar signal level targets cannot be seen in this data visualization.

The techniques provided by the embodiments herein may be implemented on an integrated circuit chip not shown . The chip design is created in a graphical computer programming language and stored in a computer storage medium such as a disk tape physical hard drive or virtual hard drive such as in a storage access network . If the designer does not fabricate chips or the photolithographic masks used to fabricate chips the designer transmits the resulting design by physical means e.g. by providing a copy of the storage medium storing the design or electronically e.g. through the Internet to such entities directly or indirectly. The stored design is then converted into the appropriate format e.g. GDSII for the fabrication of photolithographic masks which typically include multiple copies of the chip design in question that are to be formed on a wafer. The photolithographic masks are utilized to define areas of the wafer and or the layers thereon to be etched or otherwise processed.

The resulting integrated circuit chips can be distributed by the fabricator in raw wafer form that is as a single wafer that has multiple unpackaged chips as a bare die or in a packaged form. In the latter case the chip is mounted in a single chip package such as a plastic carrier with leads that are affixed to a motherboard or other higher level carrier or in a multichip package such as a ceramic carrier that has either or both surface interconnections or buried interconnections . In any case the chip is then integrated with other chips discrete circuit elements and or other signal processing devices as part of either a an intermediate product such as a motherboard or b an end product. The end product can be any product that includes integrated circuit chips ranging from toys and other low end applications to advanced computer products having a display a keyboard or other input device and a central processor.

The embodiments herein may comprise hardware and software embodiments. The embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the embodiments herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to receivers etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

There are various techniques for solving the inverse linear system of equations for the sparsest in the compressed sensing community which can be classified into two categories 

In this implementation the orthogonal matching pursuit technique may be employed as described in J. Tropp and A. Gilbert Signal recovery from random measurements via orthogonal matching pursuit IEEE Trans. on Information Theory vol. 53 no. 12 pp. 4655 4666 December 2007 hereby incorporated by reference to solve for due to its simplicity recovery robustness and fast computation. This algorithm is graphically illustrated in .

In the vector space Cof N dimensional signals vector x can be represented as x where is called the sparsifying matrix which in other words the representation through can be and in many cases should be close to the original signal x. The sparsifying matrix is said to be complete if its columns span the entire N dimensional space. The signal x is said to be strictly K sparse when there are only K non zero components in . When the sorted magnitudes of decay very quickly and x can be well approximated with only K components then x is said to be K compressible. The effectiveness of the recovery algorithm of a class of signal x heavily depends on the sparsest representation of the signal class.

In standard compressed sensing fixed linear transform bases such as the DCT FFT and the discrete wavelet transform DWT or a combination of all three are often employed to obtain sparsity. In the UWB SAR system the transmitted pulse is a monocycle impulse with an approximated bandwidth range of 300 3000 MHz. Current collected raw data captured in the 8 receivers do not exhibit any common sparse pattern. In other words a quick spectrum analysis reveals that the raw data is not time sparse or frequency sparse or even wavelet sparse. Hence a na ve direct application of Compressed Sensing CS via random projection with Fourier cosine or wavelet bases yields disappointing results.

As used herein processor may include but is not limited to a computer central processing unit CPU microprocessor multiprocessor main frame computer personal computer or laptop computer.

As used herein the terminology matching pursuit means a technique for finding the best matching projections of multidimensional data onto an over complete dictionary. As stated in Wikipedia the basic idea is to represent a signal from Hilbert space as a weighted sum of functions called atoms taken from called atoms taken from D 

Although a preferred embodiment of the invention discloses application of this technique for radar applications only it is within the skill of the art to use the spectral recovery techniques of the present invention to such applications as communications systems including UWB communication systems. In addition to radar the invented noise extraction technique may be applied to any communications systems that suffer from interference noises. Examples of such practical systems and applications include radars operating in combative environments with frequent enemy jamming audio recordings with background noise noise cancellation headphones in noisy environments such as airplanes airports construction sites etc.

As used herein the terminology sparsity driven of sparsity driven is a relative term relating to the finding of a compressible solution which is intended to be treated broadly. For example a sparse matrix is a matrix with enough zeros that it pays to take advantage of them commonly interpreted from an economics view point in that if one can save time and memory by exploiting the zeros then a matrix is sparse. The terminology sparsity refers to the selection of a model within a hierarchy of model classes that yields a compact representation i.e. a model that depends on only a few of the observations selecting a small subset of features for classification or visualization. Selection of an optimal representation which is sufficiently sparse enables efficient computation by optimization techniques and alleviates the extreme difficulty encountered without sufficient sparsity.

As used herein the terminology target area means area of interest which may be for example a scene an animal or human body or portion thereof face as in face recognition object ground region field landscape aerial environment or a combination thereof.

The term noise as used herein relates to observation noise. There are many sources that cause noise in the resulting observed signal. Noise can be divided into two categories additive noise and multiplicative noise. System noise thermal noise quantization noise self interference noise radio frequency interference RFI noise are some examples of the additive noise. Multiplicative noise is much more difficult to deal with since it is data dependent. Some sources that cause multiplicative noise include timing jitter in data sampling small aperture size compared to image area the under sampling of aperture samples the non uniform spacing between aperture samples errors in position measurement system etc. Multiplicative noise results in undesired sidelobes that create high noise floor in the image and thus limit the ability to detect targets.

As used herein the terminology dictionary means an organized listing of data stored in machine readable form for reference. The dictionary may be located in any type of storage or memory for storage of data. As an example the dictionary may comprise phase shifted versions of the point target response.

As used herein the terminology memory or memory portion means computer memory used to store data on a temporary or permanent basis for use in conjunction with computer processor microprocessor or the like. The term memory means any physical system that can store data. As used herein when the terms first memory and second memory are used the first and second memories may be portions or areas of the same memory i.e. separate storage areas within a memory device or a plurality of memory devices.

As used herein the terminology processor means computer microprocessor CPU desktop computer laptop tablet mobile processor main frame or the like.

As used herein the terminology spectrum estimator includes a spectrum analyzer and a spectrum detector which detects interfering signals. For example the detector will detect any frequency band that has higher power than the spectral response of a radar system

As used herein the point target response means a reconstructed or in radar terminology range compressed signal from a point like target at the receiver output. The point target response can be represented in time domain as s t echo from a point target or in frequency domain as S f where S f is the Fourier transform of s t . S f also occupies the same frequency band of the radar transmit signal. The transmit pulse can be short impulse chirp frequency modulation or stepped sine waves. As an example of a point target response in the case of impulse radar the radar transmits a short pulse s t that occupies the full bandwidth of the radar. In theory if the transmit antenna the receive antenna the radar electronics are perfect the echo from a point target should be s t t which is exactly the same as s t with a time delay t. In the perfect case the point target response is a stored replica of the transmit signal upon reflection from a point like target taking into account the processing of the system . However since the radar components antennas electronics have their own transfer functions the echo from a point target would be s t with some delay which is a modified version of s t . For simplicity it is assumed that s t s t . The echo signal s t or s t is called range compressed signal. The point target response may be based upon construction at the receiver output and may be computed from the radar parameters. The typical composite return signal from a scene is a linear combination of many point target responses with various phases and amplitudes. For frequency modulation FM radar the transmit signal p t also occupies the full bandwidth of the radar but is stretched in time. Thus at the receiver the response from a point target must be reconstructed by matching the echo signal p t t to the transmit signal to get the equivalent range compressed signal s t as in the case of impulse radar. As a further example for stepped frequency radar the radar transmits many pulses each with a single frequency and many echo signals from a point target are used to reconstruct the equivalent range compressed signal s t as in the case of impulse radar. In the case of frequency modulated radar or stepped frequency radar the point target response means as used herein the range compressed point target response. This is because impulse radar transmit signal occupies the full frequency band in a very short time hence range compressed . Frequency modulated radar transmit signal occupies the full frequency band in a longer time interval thus the need for a reconstructed range compressed signal . Stepped frequency only transmits one frequency at a time. It eventually transmits all frequency in the band after a number of transmit pulses. The term point target response includes impulse response in time or spatial domain or transfer function in the frequency domain from any radar communication signal processing systems. The term point target response also covers point spread function in imaging systems.

As used herein the terminology spectral means of or relating to a spectrum. The terminology spectrum refers to a band portion or region of the electromagnetic spectrum which may or may not be continuous for example the radio spectrum is the region of the electromagnetic spectrum spanning the radio frequency range. The terminology spectra is the plural of spectrum.

As used herein the terminology noise extracted signal refers to the estimation of the received signal without noise or interfering signals.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

