---

title: Method and apparatus for triggering machine type communications applications
abstract: A method and apparatus for triggering at least one machine type communications (MTC) application using at least one wireless transmit/receive unit (WTRU) is disclosed. The method includes receiving a triggering message including a device trigger (DT) and a maximum delayed response time value from a core network entity (CN), storing the DT in the WTRU, initiating a timer in the WTRU set to the maximum delayed response time value, and on a condition that the timer expires, the WTRU transitioning to a radio resource control (RRC) connected mode and dispatching the DT to the MTC application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148748&OS=09148748&RS=09148748
owner: InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc.
number: 09148748
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140902
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 715 685 filed Dec. 14 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 570 682 filed Dec. 14 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 590 941 filed Jan. 26 2012 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

With the progress of the wireless technologies and mobile network deployments wireless services for machine type communication MTC through the mobile network has become an important agenda under the third generation partnership project 3GPP . Mobile networks are currently designed for human to human communications and are less optimal for machine to machine M2M or machine to human applications. MTC provides data communication involving one or more entities that do not necessarily need human interaction.

Wireless transmit receive units WTRUs are generally programmed to autonomously set up a connection to report an event through the mobile network. However in some applications and services it may be required that the network trigger the WTRUs. For example during a storm a water authority may desire to monitor dike and dam sensors in a specific area. It is expected that millions of these types of WTRUs may be deployed and may be polled or triggered to initialize a message or a short message service SMS by a network signal.

Since a large number of WTRUs may be triggered at the same time in a relatively localized area for specific applications causing too many network resources to be consumed enhancement of a point to point delivery mechanism for WTRU triggering may be desirable.

A method and apparatus for triggering at least one machine type communications MTC application using at least one wireless transmit receive unit WTRU is disclosed. The method includes receiving a triggering message including a device trigger DT and a maximum delayed response time value from a core network entity CN storing the DT in the WTRU initiating a timer in the WTRU set to the maximum delayed response time value and on a condition that the timer expires the WTRU transitioning to a radio resource control RRC connected mode and dispatching the DT to the MTC application.

As shown in the communications system may include WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed embodiments contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the other networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an evolved Node B eNB a Home Node B HNB a Home eNB HeNB a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes and the like. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in one embodiment the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another embodiment the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light and the like . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS terrestrial radio access UTRA which may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as high speed packet access HSPA and or evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include high speed downlink packet access HSDPA and or high speed uplink packet access HSUPA .

In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as evolved UTRA E UTRA which may establish the air interface using long term evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A .

In other embodiments the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 1X CDMA2000 evolution data optimized EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 global system for mobile communications GSM enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE GSM EDGE RAN GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router HNB HeNB or AP for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In one embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A and the like to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over Internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution and the like and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the Internet protocol IP in the TCP IP suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a microprocessor one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA circuit an integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the WTRU to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from a base station e.g. the base station over the air interface . For example in one embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. In another embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR UV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the WTRU may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the WTRU may employ MIMO technology. Thus in one embodiment the WTRU may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals over the air interface .

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the WTRU may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the WTRU to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor of the WTRU may be coupled to and may receive user input data from the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD display unit or organic light emitting diode OLED display unit . The processor may also output user data to the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad . In addition the processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the WTRU such as on a server or a home computer not shown .

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the WTRU . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the WTRU . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion and the like solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which may be configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the WTRU . In addition to or in lieu of the information from the GPS chipset the WTRU may receive location information over the air interface from a base station e.g. base stations and or determine its location based on the timing of the signals being received from two or more nearby base stations. The WTRU may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

The RAN may include eNBs though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of eNBs while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The eNBs may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the eNBs may implement MIMO technology. Thus the eNB for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU

Each of the eNBs may be associated with a particular cell not shown and may be configured to handle radio resource management decisions handover decisions scheduling of users in the uplink and or downlink and the like. As shown in the eNBs may communicate with one another over an X2 interface.

The core network shown in may include a mobility management entity MME a serving gateway and a packet data network PDN gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MME may be connected to each of the eNBs in the RAN via an S1 interface and may serve as a control node. For example the MME may be responsible for authenticating users of the WTRUs bearer activation deactivation selecting a particular serving gateway during an initial attach of the WTRUs and the like. The MME may also provide a control plane function for switching between the RAN and other RANs not shown that employ other radio technologies such as GSM or WCDMA.

The serving gateway may be connected to each of the eNBs in the RAN via the S1 interface. The serving gateway may generally route and forward user data packets to from the WTRUs . The serving gateway may also perform other functions such as anchoring user planes during inter eNB handovers triggering paging when downlink data is available for the WTRUs managing and storing contexts of the WTRUs and the like.

The serving gateway may also be connected to the PDN gateway which may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

The core network may facilitate communications with other networks. For example the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. For example the core network may include or may communicate with an IP gateway e.g. an IP multimedia subsystem IMS server that serves as an interface between the core network and the PSTN . In addition the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

Tsms may be the interface that encompasses all the various proprietary SMS SC to a short message entity SME interface standards and may be outside the scope of 3GPP specifications. The Tsms may be used to transmit a trigger to a WTRU encapsulated in a MT SMS as an over the top application by any network entity acting as an SME . Tsp is a 3GPP standardized interface to facilitate value added services motivated by MTC for example control pane device triggering and provided by the SCS .

An Application Programming Interface API may be used as an abstract to illustrate an example of an end to end view for MTC and to simplify mapping to MTC specifications of other standardization organizations. In an indirect model MTC capabilities and the MTC Application in the external network may be collocated on the same SCS .

For a roaming scenario the MTC IWF may have the connection with a home subscriber server HSS and SMS SC within the home network only and with serving SGSN MME MSC in a visited network.

MTC device triggering may start from the MTC application . An MTC application may configure the SCS for MTC device triggering. The SCS may transmit a device triggering request to the MTC IWF with external MTC device identities not necessarily 3GPP identifiers via the Tsp interface .

The MTC IWF plays a role in bridging the SCS and the public land mobile network PLMN for handling the MTC device triggering and other functionalities. An MTC IWF may co exist with the SMS SC with an interface T4 230 or may connect to the SMS SC externally with a T4 230.

The MTC IWF interrogates the home location register HLR HSS when needed to map external identifiers to international mobile subscriber identity IMSI or to some other MTC device internal ID known to 3GPP network and gather the device WTRU reachability and configuration information. The MTC IWF then selects the trigger delivery mechanism for example T4 SMS T5 direct or T5 direct SMS and performs protocol translation if necessary and routes the request towards a relevant core network CN entity. For example protocol translation may be necessary to reformat the triggered request to match the selected trigger delivery method.

The MTC device trigger requests generated by the MTC IWF may go to the CN controlling nodes over the T5 interface . For example the CN controlling nodes may be a mobility management entity MME serving general packet radio service GPRS support node SGSN or mobile switching center MSC . The CN controlling node may make a decision on how the MTC device triggering is delivered to the MTC devices WTRUs . An MTC device trigger may then be transmitted to the MTC devices WTRUs to invoke the MTC devices WTRUs performing certain actions and or respond back.

The MTC IWF may transmit an SMS request in terms of an MTC device trigger over the T4 interface to the SMS SC which may then generate and or package the MTC device trigger in SMS form and dispatch the SMS to an MSC . It may then go to the WTRU directly or via the SGSN MME .

The MTC device may already be attached to the network and have a data connection with the network or it may be attached to the network but have no connection established. In this case it is called online which means that the MTC devices are registered with the network.

The MTC device may be unattached to the network or offline which means that the device is currently in an unregistered state with the network. The network may still have some knowledge about the MTC device. The MTC IWF may need to keep the SGSN MME addresses of an MTC device per its IMSI or its device ID.

Additionally the 3GPP network may support control signaling between the network entity SCS SME and the 3GPP system via the Tsms reference point for submission of the device trigger requests as part of user data of a mobile terminated SMS MT SMS . The Tsms reference point is provided by an SMS SC. The SMS SC may reside at the edge of the operators network. The SCS may request the SMS SC to deliver a device trigger over the Tsp.

In LTE the network may reach the idle mode WTRUs through paging operations such that the network transmits paging messages at specific time occasions to the WTRUs having an incoming call. The WTRUs may be monitoring the paging periodically in occasions assigned to them based on their WTRU IDs. The WTRUs may be identified by the WTRU ID in the paging message.

Alternatively the network may reach idle mode WTRUs by broadcasting a system information broadcast periodically according to a schedule. WTRUs looking for system information may check and receive the system information when it is broadcast according to the scheduling.

Alternatively the network may reach the idle mode WTRUs through multimedia broadcast multicast services MBMS mechanisms such that the network multicasts MBMS information and data over the multimedia broadcast over single frequency network MBSFN subframes where no regular unicast is ongoing and the WTRUs supporting MBSFN subframe reception may monitor the control information and receive the MBMS data on the MBSFN subframes according to the MBMS scheduling.

For MTC devices that are location fixed or location known the network may employ some broadcast multicast mechanisms for device triggering whether they are currently registered or not. The PLMN may multicast broadcast a trigger message in a relevant cell or group of cells for efficiency to meet MTC communication scaling requirements. The MTC devices may be programmed to monitor a preset cell broadcast channel even when they are not attached to the network and have assigned a unique paging identity UPID . The SCS may transmit the MTC device trigger in cell broadcast messages to its MTC devices this way if the location information is available in the SCS.

For cell broadcast service CBS configuration a mobile network operator may provide an interface to the cell broadcast center CBC to third parties. The SCS may transmit a trigger containing for instance geographic information and trigger information to the MTC IWF over Tsp. The MTC IWF may then act as a cell broadcast entity CBE to deliver the message to the CBC. The CBC may then distribute the cell broadcast message to the relevant MME. The CBS in LTE may be equated to the emergency warning message distribution.

In 3GPP for the Earthquake and Tsunami Warning Service ETWS and Area Mail systems the distribution area may be specified in cell units. However in LTE the distribution area may be specified in three different granularities cell tracking area or emergency area EA .

When the CBC receives a request for emergency information distribution from the CBE it may create a text to be transmitted to the terminals and specifies the distribution area from the information in the request. The CBC may then transmit a write replace warning request message to the MME . When the MME receives this message it transmits the information to the eNBs as specified in the distribution area.

When the eNBs begin transmission of the emergency information a paging message in which the ETWS indication is set is transmitted to the mobile terminal for example the WTRU. If a paging message containing an ETWS indication is received the terminal begins receiving the system information broadcast that contains the emergency information. The eNBs may use the message identifier to determine how the message is broadcasted the distribution area cell list primary notification identifier and secondary notification information if available. Upon completion of a broadcast the eNBs return the result to the MME .

Core network congestion avoidance and backoff BO timers may be used in conjunction with MTC devices. A BO timer may be used to avoid congestion in a network due to access by numerous devices. Note that the BO timers also apply to WTRUs that are not MTC devices. BO timers may apply to WTRUs that are configured as low priority devices for example MTC devices and to WTRUs that are not configured for low priority devices. Devices that are configured as low priority may set the radio resource control RRC establishment cause to delay tolerant when they attempt to obtain an RRC connection.

There may be a general mobility management BO timer per core network CN domain. For example T3346 may be used for a packet switched PS domain and T3246 may be used for a circuit switched CS domain. This BO timer may also be referred to as a session management BO timer.

There may be a BO timer per access point name APN . This timer may be used for session management to setup modify or release packet data network PDN connections. The WTRU may run at least one BO timer. Each timer may map to only one APN. This BO timer may also be referred to as a session management BO timer.

The WTRU may run both a mobility management and session management timer. If a mobility management timer is running in the WTRU then the WTRU may not initiate a request except if the WTRU is establishing a PDN connection for emergency calls or already has such a PDN connection established or the WTRU is accessing the system with a specific access class 11 15. In both of these cases the establishment cause used to obtain an RRC connection may not be set to delay tolerant . The eNB may upon detection of congestion reject a connection after identifying a device as low priority for example the RRC establishment cause delay tolerant . The eNB may also provide a WTRU with a BO timer at the RRC layer. This BO timer may be known as an extended wait timer EWT . When this happens the RRC layer in the WTRU may provide the timer to the non access stratum NAS which may run the mobility management timer with a value set to that of the indicated EWT.

A WTRU that is requesting a connection and the establishment cause does not indicate delay tolerant even if the WTRU is configured as a low priority device e.g. the WTRU sets an establishment cause to emergency despite being a delay tolerant device may receive an EWT. If this occurs the RRC may provide it to the NAS which may ignore the EWT as this only applies to accesses with establishment cause set to delay tolerant .

Given the T5 interface in and the mechanism with the T5 direct MTC device triggering to the WTRU using an NAS message though the CN controlling node embodiments for the new NAS message based solutions are disclosed including the T5 interface protocol. The new NAS message triggering mechanism may need new procedures over new parameters that would fulfill the task of device triggering within the 3GPP network.

Since a large number of MTC devices may be triggered around the same time in a relatively localized area for certain specific MTC applications the point to point delivery mechanism for MTC device triggering may not be optimum since it may consume too many network resources at the same time. For downlink reaching methods multicast mechanisms and enhanced paging mechanisms may be used.

A BO timer may be applied to devices that are low priority as well as devices that are not low priority. If the BO timer is running in the WTRU for example the mobility BO timer the WTRU may request a connection and access the system if the WTRU needs to setup an emergency call or already has setup one or if the WTRU is accessing the system with access class 11 15. The WTRU may be allowed to receive emergency calls but the network operator may not want the WTRU to transmit additional requests for other PDN connections that are not related to emergency calls for example not related to IMS emergency calls. However since the WTRU may only be running a mobility management timer but not a session management timer the WTRU may not see any restriction that prevents it from transmitting session management requests.

One possible method to combat this may be to configure the WTRU such that if the WTRU is already running a BO timer then the WTRU may not initiate other session management requests unrelated to the emergency call if it has a PDN connection for emergency calls and the WTRU was backed off. Also the network may provide the WTRU with session management BO timers to prevent this from occurring. However the primary problem may be that when the WTRUs ignore the BO timers and transition to a connected mode for example for emergency calls or because of accessing the system with access class 11 15 the network may not be able to differentiate between the WTRUs that are requesting emergency calls but do not belong to access class 11 15 and WTRUs requesting emergency calls but belong to access class 11 15. If this information is missing at the network the network may block non emergency requests from all WTRUs that have an emergency PDN connection even though the WTRUs that belong to access class 11 15 have the right to access the system for non emergency purposes.

Embodiments for delivering the MTC device triggers from the MTC IWF to the WTRU are described hereafter.

A T5 interface may connect an MTC interworking function MTC IWF to a relevant CN node. Specifically the T5a interface may connect the MTC IWF to an SGSN the T5b interface may connect to an MME and the T5c interface may connect to an MSC. Both T5a and T5b interfaces may be IP network interfaces. GTPv2 is the top level protocol and GTPv2 runs over the UDP transport. The T5 interface may be used to carry MTC related SMS messages as well as other MTC related formatted messages such as NAS messages for MTC device triggering or other purposes. One or more of the following attributes may be used to build a GTP tunnel a distinct TEID over the T5 interface MTC message type for example SMS vs. other plain format messages or a delivery mechanism delivery scheduling priority and or delivery schedules and or traffic types for example establishing connection over c plane only or u plane connection needed or other types of triggering results an individual RAN node or a group of RAN nodes for example eNBs or NodeBs or HeNBs HNBs local networks for example selected IP traffic offload SIPTO local IP access LIPA nodes such as L GWs mobile location areas for example tracking areas or routing areas MTC device type or device service application category and MTC device WTRU current connection status for example idle vs. connected . The T5 interface may not only transport an MTC device trigger request and response messages between the MTC IWF and the relevant CN nodes the T5 interface may also carry the message for MTC device upon roaming location update information or the WTRU registration status information including its DRX sleep cycle configuration and lengths from the CN nodes to the MTC IWF.

The following procedures messaging transactions may be used in any combination. The CN node may transmit an acknowledgement that a request is being processed. The CN node may transmit an acknowledgement that a request is being processed with a result of the processing. For example the result of the processing may be failure or success and a reason code. The reason code may indicate the failure of the reachability using a specific method for example failure to reach via SMS or failure to reach via user plane UP . This may be used by the recipient e.g. MTC IWF to try another reachability method. The CN node may transmit a failure due to unavailability of resources alternatively with a backoff BO period during which the recipient e.g. MTC IWF may not retry. The BO time may be for a specific device or for all devices or a group of devices. In general one node that implements the T5 interface may at any time inform another node about congestion start or end for one a group or all devices. The BO indication may be associated with an interval during which no request may be made. An exception to this rule may be requests for urgent or emergency communication or communication to a device that is high priority or that is a member of a specific class and the like. Thus a node e.g. MTC IWF may indicate in all the T5 messages whether the request is for a regular or prioritized device or application within a device.

When the MTC IWF has determined to invoke an MTC device trigger via the T5 interface a T5 MTC device trigger message may be dispatched to the target. The T5 MTC device trigger message may be transmitted from the MTC IWF to the CN controlling node such as MME SGSN or MSC. The content and parameters of the message and the related semantics are described below. An MTC device trigger message from the MTC IWF to the CN controlling node may contain one or more device triggers to one or more MTC devices or to one or more MTC device groups.

One or more of the following parameters may be transmitted in the T5 message to the CN controlling node for a device to be triggered trigger request validity time triggered device internal identities MTC device locations device reaching mechanisms trigger device response expected MTC device application profile MTC device response time MTC response type trigger delivery urgency and MTC device application ID.

The trigger request validity time may be the time that is passed to the CN controlling node to determine if the trigger is still valid. The triggered device internal identities within a PLMN may include the WTRU device ID assigned MTC device ID device paging multicast ID and or device group ID in paging or multicast.

The MTC device locations may be for example tracking routing area IDs cells such as cell IDs physical cell identities primary scrambling codes PCIs PSCs a local health network LHN ID home NodeB HNB ID and closed subscriber group CSG ID. The device reaching mechanism may be for example point to point paging broadcast and multicast. The trigger device response expected may be for example user plane U plane control plane C plane only and simple ACK.

The MTC device application profile may be for example access point name APN and operating system OS profile. The MTC device response time may be the time at which the device may respond the time before which the device may manage or respond the time after which the device may respond or a time interval i.e. specified by a start and end time during which a device may respond. The MTC response type may be whether an individual response is required for an independent device or a device that is part of a group of devices or a group based response is desired.

The trigger delivery urgency indicator may be a trigger that needs to be delivered regardless of whether the network is overloaded or not.

The MTC device application ID may be used to trigger at least one application or multiple applications within the device. This may be a bitmap that identifies the applications. A value of 1 may indicate that the trigger applies to the application related to the bit position and a value of 0 may indicate that the application corresponding to the position of the bit in question is not being triggered. The relation of bit position to the type of application may be configured and known to both the device and the network or may be negotiated upon registration of the device. In addition there may be one application ID for which all of the above items are provided for example regarding response time response type. Alternatively all of the previous items may be applicable to all the applications that are being triggered. Moreover some of the above items may apply to all or specific applications. For example the response time or type may be for all applications or there may be such information per application.

The above parameters may be used in any combination and are not restricted to MTC devices. Alternatively these parameters may be pre configured in the devices or preconfigured in the CN nodes or according to operator policies. The CN nodes may provide the required response characteristics for example as per the above parameters.

For an MTC IWF generating MTC trigger requests to the CBC to enable group MTC device triggering another granularity of triggering area may be introduced to specify an MTC triggering area for MTC devices belonging to a certain PLMN operator and the like. A PLMN specific message identifier may be used so that WTRUs not interested in the messages may discard them.

When the MTC IWF receives MTC device trigger requests from the SCS the MTC IWF may determine which device trigger delivery mechanism to use to reach the concerned MTC device or MTC devices. The MTC device trigger delivery mechanisms may include but not limited to one or more of the following. An SMS delivery mechanism over the T4 interface towards the SMS SC subsequently using SMS delivery path. A direct message transmitted over the T5 interface towards the CN controlling node. An SMS properly formed at the MTC IWF and encapsulated in a T5 Protocol Data Unit to the MME SGSN. A control or command transmitted towards the PDN gateway P GW gateway GPRS support node GGSN or to serving gateway S GW for the MTC device trigger to go over the usual user plane path to the MTC devices.

In the case that a particular WTRU MTC device has so registered such that more than one delivery mechanism may be used for example a WTRU has registered with CS and PS for SMS and PS for NAS message triggering the delivery mechanism may be chosen by the MTC IWF according to one or more of the following information acquired from the HSS subscription record information accumulated in the MTC IWF for example during WTRU registration operation mobility management operations network load management SON from the CN nodes or information supplied by the MTC server or the MTC operation administration and maintenance OAM .

The MTC IWF may try several methods according to a specific order which may be based on an ordered list of methods as received from the HSS or as preconfigured in the MTC IWF or as per recommended method that may be received from any CN node. The above methods may be used in any combination.

The MTC user for example a power meter company may specify a delivery method for all the devices it tries to reach or the user of the MTC device WTRU in the subscription data may give consent for a preferred method.

The MTC device may be in one of the following operating states connected currently active connected in long discontinuous reception DRX state mode idle state but remain registered or offline or deregistered. For connection currently active the MTC may use a point to point delivery method such as SMS or direct NAS message. For connected in long discontinuous reception DRX state mode the MTC may use a T5 delivery method to invoke multicast triggering. For idle state but remain registered the MTC may use a T5 delivery method to invoke multicast triggering. For offline or de registered the MTC may use a T5 delivery method to invoke multicast triggering.

The MTC IWF may receive relevant CN load conditions and or relevant RAN load conditions and may choose a lighter loaded path hence the delivery mechanism to dispatch the triggering indication. MTC device location in the PLMN network may be considered where a certain delivery mechanism is available or preferred. If a U plane path for MTC device response is expected the point to point SMS or NAS message trigger may be used. If a C plane response is needed any method may be used. If a simple ACK is needed a NAS message a multicast method may be used.

The MTC IWF may deliver the MTC triggers over the T5 interface if the target CN is not overloaded. However the MTC device triggers marked with a trigger delivery urgency indicator may be delivered to the congested CN. The MTC device triggers with the trigger delivery urgency indicator may come from those particular SCSs specifically authorized and or authenticated to input such urgent device triggers.

The MTC IWF may collect the responses from the T5 interface on various T5 trigger requests. If a negative acknowledgment comes back from the MME or no response is received during a specific time interval one of more of the following may be performed by the MTC IWF. The MTC IWF may initiate another delivery if the original request is still valid for example remaining time in validity period. Alternatively if the CN is overloaded and the validity time is not over a suspend report and subsequent actions of the MTC IWF may be based on a failure value from the MME SGSN MSC. Alternatively the MTC IWF may transmit a failure report to the SCS or to a default node. The default node may be preconfigured in the MTC IWF or may be specific to every device. For example the HSS may provide the MTC IWF that the SMS SC is the default node or last resort destination for a particular device or group of devices in which all or a subset of other reachability methods fail.

The MME SGSN may decide whether the MTC device trigger may be delivered using point to point NAS message SMS via RAN level paging or CBS. The MME SGSN may also decide whether the MTC device trigger maybe delivered using a multicast method based on the WTRU state WTRU location WTRU capability such as registered information RAN load situation and the trigger request validity time duration. One or more of the following considerations maybe used by the MME SGSN.

The MME SGSN may decide that the device trigger may be delivered point to point via an NAS MTC device trigger message or an SMS message if the MTC device WTRU is in a connected state with an active C plane connection if the trigger validity time is longer than the expected MTC device WTRU s next non MTC related uplink activity if the device is in a RAN cell or area for example a tracking area TA routing area RA location area LA that is not heavily loaded or if the trigger request comes from the MTC IWF with the preference of point to point delivery. For example related uplink activity may be the next tracking area update TAU .

The MME SGSN may decide to use one to many signaling for example paging CBS or multicast if one or more of the following is relevant if the MTC device WTRU is in a connected state but under long DRX mode in the MTC this may mean one half minute to several days or more or the MTC device WTRU does not have an RRC Connection if the WTRU capability indicates it may receive one to many signals for example paging CBS or multicast if the trigger validity time remaining indicates a trigger action needs to be taken soon if the trigger request comes from the MTC IWF with the preference of a point to many delivery method if there is a large number of triggers from the MTC IWF or if the eNB where the device to be triggered resides supports one or more of the point to many delivery for MTC device triggers.

When the MME decides to use point to many delivery mechanism for MTC device trigger requests from the MTC IWF the MME may buffer accumulate the similar requests together for a while for the same eNB or for a similar trigger time. For example the MME may buffer accumulate a certain portion of the request validity time.

The MME SGSN may hold back the delivery of triggers to the RAN that have indicated overload. However those triggers that are marked with an urgency indicator may be delivered to the RAN regardless of overloading congestion or not.

Alternatively the delivery mechanism decision may be made by an eNB or jointly by the MME and the eNB. For point to many delivery of the MTC device triggers the eNB may decide which mechanism to use how the MTC device responds and how to schedule the trigger delivery.

The MME and or the eNB may collect the responses or the acknowledgments from the MTC devices WTRUs and determine whether a re attempt or a failure report or failure action may be taken.

For a network node CBC in the MTC device trigger system when the CBC transmits a trigger related message to the MME a new message identifier may be introduced from the CBC to the MME to initiate the MTC device trigger start replace. The new message may map to an existing or new primary notification and include additional information such as distribution area MTC group identifier a list of MTC devices that are being triggered repetition period and number of broadcasts requested.

In order to avoid that this capability does not interfere with the original purpose of the CBS for example warning system for natural disasters and other events the CBC may assign priorities to the entities assigned to it and the message identifiers it receives. The CBC may ensure that all public warning messages are broadcast before any MTC triggering messages are broadcast.

In order to address the scalability of using the broadcast resources for triggering a large number of devices the CBC may spread the MTC triggering notifications to restrict the number of devices triggered per message or transmitted a new distribution period to the eNB.

A home NodeB HNB and home evolved NodeB H e NB gateway H e NB GW may be deployed as a proxy to handle the MTC devices. Under this model MTC devices may be locally attached to the H e NB without requiring periodic network registrations. Such devices may be present at the H e NB subsystem level.

In a deployment where MTC devices low priority devices or any other device holding similar characteristics need to be contacted to either push or pull data the concept of HeNB GW may be used to enable at least the following capability. The MTC device may register to the HeNB GW prior or during regular network registration and the HeNB GW may be used as a proxy to allow for addressing the device using a group ID based on the HeNB GW ID or for periodic HeNB GW registration with a periodicity less or equal to the regular periodic network registration.

If an MTC device roams into a different PLMN or if the MTC device incurs any tracking area change or serving cell change that may involve a serving CN node change the target CN node may need to update the MTC IWF on the location changing of the particular MTC device or WTRU. The update information may include the WTRU Id including the MTC ID or the MTC Group Id the IMSI or other forms of MTC device internal ID or the new location information such as cell id RAN node Id or Area Id. The device MTC information may include one or more of the scheduling information for example the DRX cycle length the current C plane and or U plane connection information and additional RAN mechanism information for example using MBMS or using CBS for triggering.

The target CN node may obtain the information from the source CN node during the roaming handling procedure or the target CN node may obtain these information from the RAN node or from the WTRU directly. If an MTC device moves to a different tracking area or changes to a different serving cell within the same CN node the target RAN node may need to update the CN node with one or more of the pieces of information described above.

An NAS MTC device trigger for example an MTC device trigger request message may be constructed at the mobility management evolved packet system EPS mobility management EMM or global multimedia mobility GMM level at the MME. The NAS MTC device trigger message may be delivered to an MTC device or WTRU when it is in evolved packet system EPS mobility management EMM connected mode EMM registered normal service . Alternatively an existing downlink NAS MM level message may be modified to contain one or more of the following parameters with similar semantics defined below to perform the MTC device trigger.

The NAS MTC device trigger message may contain one or more of the following parameters an MTC device ID or MTC device group ID an MTC device trigger authorization code a security parameter for subsequent device network interaction a trigger request type a response type and duration a response ID a response resource type a responding area scope an MTC device message container and a type of MTC application or application ID.

The MTC device ID or the MTC device group ID may be that with which the WTRU performs some authorization check to see if it is the intended recipient given the group paging CBC and the multicast. The MTC device trigger authorization code helps the WTRU to verify the trigger source S CS feature for MTC feature control whether the MTC device is allowed to be triggered this way. The security parameter for subsequent device network interaction may be for example a KSI an encryption algorithm or a security nonce. The presence or absence of this parameter may determine the WTRU response security level.

The trigger request type may be for example the purpose of the triggering. For example a trigger that is simply for monitoring to see if the device is still alive or a trigger that may command the device to perform some task such as to open a gate or a trigger to ask the device to transmit certain data and then download new software and then reset. The trigger request type may dictate how the WTRU is to respond to the trigger.

The response type and duration may indicated whether the WTRU response may be immediate or may be delay tolerant within the duration or the WTRU may use higher priority approach if at the end of the response duration. The response ID may be assigned by the MME to identify the WTRU response. The response resource type may be for example U plane EPS bearer associated APN LGW or C plane or a simple response such as ACK. The responding area scope for example if the device is roaming may indicate in which cell which area or which PLMN the WTRU is allowed to transmit the response.

The MTC device message container may include MTC application specific contents to the possible MTC layer or to the MTC application. The type of MTC application or application ID may be used to indicate which one MTC application needs to transmit the response if there are multiple MTC applications running on the device.

The T5 Direct SMS interface is between the MTC IWF and the MME which may be used to carry MTC device trigger SMS for PS only WTRUs. When the network is equipped with this capability the network may indicate this capability configuration setup to the WTRUs in system information directly or embedded in the NMO part of the system information elements. The network may also indicate the capability confirmation setup to the WTRUs in NAS response messages to the first WTRU NAS request messages for example attach accept or TAU accept. A PS only WTRU with this T5 direct SMS capability may register to this type of service with special PS only SMS attach type in single and combined attach activities.

If the WTRU has more than one MTC trigger reception capability the WTRU may choose one capability for the session or the WTRU may indicate all for subsequent MTC related communications and let the network pick one mechanism for subsequent operations. For example the MTC reception capabilities may be SMS NAS message or direct MTC SMS.

When the MTC IWF needs to transmit a trigger message over T5 SMS to the WTRU the MTC IWF may first verify either through an HSS an SCS or some other entity in the network or directly whether or not it has a T5 connection to the MME. When the T5 association with the MME is created then the MTC IWF may continue with the procedure. The MTC IWF may build and encapsulate the SMS message into the value part of the NAS message container information element of a T5 DOWNLINK DATA message or a similar message and transmit this message to the MME. This NAS message container or the T5 downlink data message may contain a new element indicating that this SMS is over device trigger purpose.

When the MME receives a T5 downlink data message the MME may copy the contents of the NAS message container information element to the value part of the NAS message container information element of a Downlink NAS Transport message and transmit the downlink NAS transport message to the WTRU. It may also transmit a special indication informing the WTRU that the SMS message is for paging the MTC device. This procedure may be applied for the uplink case when the device transmits an SMS response to the trigger request message.

If the WTRU is in an idle mode the MME may transmit a page message for device trigger. This paging message may contain an indication informing the WTRU that it is for device trigger. Upon receiving this paging the WTRU may start the service request procedure and the MME may then forward the trigger SMS as part of a service request procedure.

In addition to carrying the MTC specific message in the above described MTC device trigger request the message may be used to carry an SMS to an MTC device at the point of an MME. Message format wise this may be accomplished through explicit coding through the IEI field such that a special IEI XY indicates the SMS container.

If the WTRU is in an EMM idle mode or in an EMM deregistered state the MME may page the WTRU. If the WTRU learns from the paging that an MTC device triggering is in effect other than a pure WTRU paging the MTC device may respond with a different first MM message other than the Service Request with paging response as the MTC device trigger response and may establish a different signaling path avoiding unnecessary U plane bearer establishment.

The current RRC paging message may be modified to inform WTRUs that this is a paging for an MTC device trigger.

In order to not impact the legacy WTRUs or non MTC WTRUs with the existing paging procedures by the MTC device triggering reaching specifics i.e. the more frequent paging occasion intent one or more of the following may be employed by the network and the MTC devices WTRUs.

In a first example the paging message for MTC devices WTRUs may be transmitted on a different time occasion than the regular paging. The paging message may be transmitted on a different LTE frame than the regular WTRU paging frames as the following scheduling form SFN mod div WTRU ID mod Equation 1 where j is an offset frame number separating an MTC paging frame from a regular paging frame and j 1 2 . . . T div N 1 . The frame offset number j may be predetermined or network configured. The WTRU ID may be calculated by IMSI or by MTC identity.

In a second example the same or different LTE paging frame may be used but the MTC triggering reaching signal message may be on a different subframe for example subframes other than 0 4 5 and 9. In one example subframe 3 and 8 may be allocated to the MTC device trigger reach such that when MTC devices using MTC ID to compute for the subframe number the new number of subframes formula is modified to Ns Max 1 2 . Equation 2 

A new indication may be added to the paging message to indicate the paging trigger is for an MTC device triggering. shows an example paging message indicating that a paging trigger is for MTC device triggering. An MTC WTRU in RRC IDLE or RRC CONNECTED mode may read the mtc TriggerIndication to know if this paging message was initiated for MTC device triggering. The WTRUs that are monitoring the MTC triggers may perform further actions on receiving this indication which may include reading additional or new system information fields to get further information associated with the device trigger and may initiate the trigger response according to the device trigger received.

The cell broadcast service CBS mechanism in LTE may be equated to the warning message broadcast in the form of the E UTRAN system information broadcast mechanisms. The cell broadcast method may be applied to both non attached offline and attached online devices. For MTC device triggering one or more of the following new actions may be employed.

A new system information block SIB or SIB set may be devised for the MTC device triggering purpose. A separate system information SI message may be used for this CBS for MTC device triggering. In addition to an MTC triggering primary notification the new MTC device trigger system information may alternatively include secondary notification data including MTC operator specific group identifier MTC operator specific individual identifier and secure information from the MTC server. The SI may be broadcast in the cell and the device trigger content may change at each transmit occasion not preserving the MP boundary rule. Therefore there would be no need to indicate the content change in the paging messages. WTRUs may not wait for the modification period MP boundary to read it. The WTRUs may read it anytime they need to for example according to their own power saving schedule or the MTC trigger SIB scheduling or both.

If the CBS MTC device trigger message is dedicated to MTC device trigger reach one or more of the following may be specified. In order to save system resources and create no impact to the legacy WTRUs an alternative method to schedule the MTC device trigger reaching SI independently of the regular SI scheduling may be to use a different MTC SI RNTI for downlink control information DCI . For narrow bandwidth MTC devices the SI RNTI or the MTC SI RNTI may be transmitted in PDCCH or E PDCCH in a search space that is in the center portion of the carrier or channel frequency range.

The SI occasion frame number may take the form of SFN mod MTC periodicity MTC offset where both MTC periodicity and MTC offset may be predetermined or network configured. For the subframe number to begin the MTC device trigger transmission it may be from any subframe number excluding 0 and 5 since the WTRU may need to acquire the MIB and SIB 1 at the time. The SI transmission window length may be 1 to w where w may be predetermined or configured by the network. If the transmission window size is one subframe the SI may be transmitted with one or more HARQ RV at the same time or the SI may be transmitted with no hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ redundancy expected.

The MTC device trigger reaching SIB may contain one or more of the following information one or more MTC Group ID which may contain the MTC IDs within the group the trigger category or purpose or command or type of the MTC trigger for each MTC ID the trigger response type an indication on whether an access delay may be applied and the parameter to calculate the access spread.

A new RRC message for MTC device trigger may be transmitted in the MBSFN subframes. The MTC message may be changed anytime.

A new RRC message may be designed to carry the MTC device trigger information to MTC devices. The scheduling of the new message may be one of the following. The new message may be transmitted in the same occasion as the existing MBSFN RRC messages. The new message may be transmitted last if it collided in transmission with the existing RRC MBMS messages. The MTC device WTRU may need to decode this message accordingly skipping the contents of the old MBMS messages.

The new RRC MTC message over an MBMS control channel MCCH may be scheduled more frequently in specific MBSFN subframes such as the first available MBSFM subframe in an LTE frame with SFN mod mcch RepetitionPeriod n mtc mcch Offset where n is a number of 2 4 8 16 and the mtc mcch Offset is a 1 2 3 . . . mcch RepetitionPeriod n . The new MTC device ID or the MTC Device Group ID may be employed as the MBMS service ID for example the temporary mobile group identity TMGI .

MTC devices WTRUs may use the assigned MTC device or device group identity MTC service or service group identity or MTC application or application group identity and the like as the MBMS service identity i.e. TMGI and the MBMS session identity to look for MTC device trigger information in MBMS multicast data stream. MTC Devices WTRUs may receive the existing MBSFN area configuration message to determine the presence absence of a specific MBMS service IDs that mapped to the above mentioned MTC Device ID or other MTC service application related identities.

MTC devices WTRUs may decode the MBSFN area configuration message and use the mapped MBMS service Id i.e. TMGI to receive the specific MTC Device Trigger transmission information in an MBMS transmission for example the logical channel identity of a particular MBMS point to multipoint traffic channel MTCH . MTC devices WTRUs may receive the MSI i.e. medium access control element MAC CE to determine the MBSFN subframe s that contains the MTC device trigger information from the MTCH logical channel identity. The MBMS Service ID may be placed either in the beginning or the end of the MBMS traffic channel MTCH transmission. For example the MBMS trigger information may be placed as the first MTCH in the first MBSFN subframe or the last.

The MBMS service ID of the MTC device WTRU may be a certain MTC identity such as a device ID service ID or application ID assigned in the universal subscriber identity module USIM or be constructed by the MTC device with some parameter in the USIM and some data from the system information.

If the WTRU is already connected the MTC device trigger may be transmitted via a new MAC CE. The new device trigger MAC CE may contain the MTC application ID and other application specific content. The new CE may be transmitted to the WTRU independently or together with other downlink data packets. The eNB may decide whether a device trigger MAC CE may be transmitted depending on the device trigger indication received on S1 signaling from the MME. Upon receiving this MTC device trigger MAC CE the WTRU MAC layer may directly submit the content of the CE to the intended MTC application.

If the MTC device WTRU receives the MTC device trigger in a connected state the device WTRU may respond by establishing a specific U plane connection even if the request does not specifically ask for it but the device WTRU has certain amount of application data to transmit. For example the specific U plane connection may be a packet data network PDN connection packet data protocol PDP context to a specific APN specified in the trigger message or by the need of the application data transfer.

Alternatively the device WTRU may respond with the existing C plane connection if there is no specific data or small data to be transferred to the network.

Alternatively the device may be provided with at least one method of response such as in a specific order. For example the device may perform a set of procedures in the given or any other order control plane CP SMS CP other UP PDN UP other UP local IP access LIPA UP selected IP traffic offload at local network SIPTO LN . Thus the device may attempt to respond according to the list provided and its capabilities as well. For example the device may try a particular method or eliminate certain methods if the device does not support these schemes. Alternatively the device may use the CP even if the response type is set to UP given the UP may not be set up for example due to APN congestion or any other problem that might prohibit the setup of the required request desired response type. The device may attempt another method of response even if not requested specified in the trigger when the specified method fails or cannot be met due to any problem for example congestion device settings radio conditions and capabilities.

In addition the device may respond according to any time limitation it may receive in the trigger. The possible time limitations may be as defined above. Moreover if the response type indicates a response via a specific PDN APN that may be a LGW the device may attempt to establish a PDN connection to the specific PDN APN for example a LIPA or SIPTO LN connection may be established by the device.

If the MTC device WTRU does not have an RRC connection MM connection with the network then depending on the MTC triggering type the device WTRU has received the WTRU may respond to the trigger message at various time occasions as follows.

If the trigger message the WTRU received is deemed non definitive time constraint for response the WTRU may transmit the response when the WTRU gets connected to the network again for some other non MTC related uplink transmission occasions for example the next TAU or attach or detach.

If the trigger message comes with a response time duration either network worked configured time or predefined time the WTRU may transmit the response with the non MTC uplink transmission before the time duration is over or start a RRC connection when the response time duration is about to expire and transmit the trigger response message. For example a predetermined time frame may be that a water company wants the water meter to report the water usage within a given time frame or predefined time frame.

If the trigger message requires the WTRU to respond immediately the WTRU may start to transmit the trigger response as requested.

If the triggering is a group type triggering if there is a spread time included in the message the WTRU may draw a random number within the time frame given by the network and transmit back the response message. If there is no timer given in the triggering message the WTRU may transmit back the trigger response message immediately or the WTRU may impose a delay to transmit back the triggering response to avoid overloading the network and or the RAN.

Depending on type of triggering message the WTRU receives the response message may be transmitted in one or more of the following ways. The MTC device may transmit back the trigger response message via SMS. The MTC device may establish a PDP context or a PDN connection and communicate to the MTC server via the U plane. The MTC trigger response message may be an MM level NAS message. If the network expects an ACK or a short response from the MTC device the MTC device may transmit a triggering response with one of more of the following.

The trigger response may be a simple ACK to acknowledge that the MTC device has received the trigger message a combined ACK indicating that the MTC device has received the trigger and the requested action has been performed successfully or an action NACK indicating that the trigger message has been received by the MTC device but the requested action is rejected or failed.

The trigger response may be encapsulated or included in an existing RRC message. In case the access stratum AS level authentication has not been completed the eNodeB may alternatively delay forwarding the trigger response message until the authentication procedure has been completed. The trigger response may be included in the RRC connection request message or the trigger response may be attached to the RRC connection complete message.

If the RRC message is used to carry the trigger response to limit the resources used for MTC triggering and response procedure some enhancement to the authentication procedure may be made for MTC. The network may enclose a standard or MTC specific authentication request message or IEs in the trigger request message. The authentication method may either be standard authentication key agreement AKA or modified MTC specific authentication method. After the MTC device authenticates the network the MTC device may enclose an authentication response IE in the trigger response message. When the network has authenticated the MTC device the network may forward the triggering response message to the MTC IWF and thereafter the MTC server.

The trigger response message may be encapsulated attached or included in an NAS message including but not limited to the following attach request message TAU service request or extended service request uplink NAS transport and the like.

In order to save WTRU battery life and reduce Uu interface load if a device trigger DT is not real time or emergency the WTRU MTC application may delay the response. For example a water meter company may trigger a water meter application to upgrade its software. The trigger may be transmitted to a group of MTC devices. If the requirement is that all MTC applications have to upgrade to a new version of software within a day then it is not necessary for all of the MTC applications to start upgrading their software immediately after being triggered. In some cases the triggering response may be delayed.

In the DT trigger message the network SCS may specify a delay response time that it expects of the MTC application. After the WTRU receives the triggering message the WTRU may delay to dispatch the trigger to the MTC application until either the delay response time expires or the WTRU goes back to connected mode by another procedure for example TAU or MO call. Alternatively to reduce Uu traffic if the trigger the WTRU received is a group trigger the WTRU may randomly choose a response time within the delay response time. Alternatively the WTRU may dispatch the trigger to the MTC application immediately but when the MTC application responds the WTRU delays the response message until either the delay response time expires or the WTRU returns to a connected mode by another procedure for example TAU or MO call.

When the MTC device WTRU receives a triggering message including a device trigger DT the MTC device WTRU may store the DT and start a timer. The timer may be set to a maximum delayed response time value or a value based on the maximum delayed response time value for example a maximum delayed response time value n DRX cycle. Alternatively the timer may be set to a random number selected from a value between 0 and the maximum delayed response time value. When the WTRU transitions to an RRC connected mode for example after the timer expires the WTRU may dispatch the DT to the MTC application . The MTC application may establish an IP connection with the MTC server if a response is requested.

The MTC device trigger response may be an NAS message at the MM level. The response message may be transmitted as an independent NAS message in response to the trigger if the device WTRU is in a connected state. The MTC device trigger response may also be a first MM level message after the RRC connection has been established for example to transmit the service request such as an extended service request and the trigger response message together in the RRC connection setup complete message as the DedicatedInfoNAS component if the device is in online state but no RRC connection. If the device WTRU is in the offline state the response message as the first NAS message may serve for both the attach and the trigger response.

For the dual purpose message for example the extended service request trigger response or the attach trigger response the necessary elements of the service request or the attach request may need to be put together with the MTC device trigger response elements to serve the dual purpose.

To avoid excessive authentication security overhead authentication response parameters may be added in the trigger response message when the message is transmitted as the first NAS message after RRC connection establishments. To help the network to distinguish whether user plane EPS bearers may need to be established or not upon receiving the MTC trigger response included in the first NAS message extended service request an indicator of flag may be added to the combined message such as an EPS bearer type. The indicator or flag may indicate whether the user plane EPS bearers in addition to the C plane bearer may need to be established or not for this trigger response. The network may be able to derive from one or the MTC response parameters for example the MTC trigger response type the MTC trigger response ID or the MTC cause.

The information elements for the MTC device trigger response may include one or more of the following the MTC trigger response type which may include a simple ACK a combined ACK and a NACK and the like the MTC trigger response ID assigned in the MTC trigger request for associate the response to the request MTC response details from the MTC application MTC cause for the MTC response type value NACK.

If the WTRU has several MTC applications the following situations may exist and need to be handled the WTRU is Idle and no MTC application is active. When a WTRU is connected and at least one MTC device is active a non active MTC application may be triggered. When the WTRU has multiple MTC applications and it is in a connected mode with any non MTC application running or one of the MTC applications is active then the active application path may be used to trigger the MTC device. The SCS may include encapsulate the MTC device trigger message in the application data for example through the user plane triggering path and method. When the active MTC application or an MTC handling entity receives that trigger message it may perform the device trigger procedure and transmit the appropriate reply. This trigger message may include some of the information elements described above.

A WTRU user may need to register with the network and with operators to receive services that require registration. This registration is described as network attachment. The WTRU registers its presence to the network in the registration area of the chosen cell if necessary by means of a location registration LR LTE attach GPRS attach IMSI attach procedure or combined attach procedures. For example in the case of LTE in the state EMM deregistered no EMM context has been established and the WTRU location is unknown to an MME and therefore it is unreachable by an MME. In order to establish an EMM context the WTRU may start the attach or combined attach procedure.

An offline MTC device is a device WTRU that is unattached to the network for example the device is not registered with the network. It may also have been registered with the network but then may be de registered with the network for example with some timer and monitoring function remaining in order to save power.

For example as shown in an offline MTC device WTRU may be in an EMM deregistered state or in an EMM null state . When the MTC device WTRU transitions from a EMM registered state to the EMM deregistered state the MTC device WTRU may communicate to the network with information to help the network reach the MTC device WTRU or trigger the MTC device WTRU to transition it from an offline state to an online state and or to perform certain commanded actions by MTC device server application. For example an online state may be when the WTRU is again attached to the network at trigger response.

In another embodiment when the device is transitioning from a state where the device is not registered to the network to a state where the device is registered to the network the MTC device may communicate to the network information to help the network reach the device or trigger the device to transition from an offline state to an online state after the device returns to an offline state or status. For example an online state may be when the WTRU is registered to the network.

In another embodiment another terminal device or network element may provide the offline triggering support parameters to the network. For example in a local network the LGW or the H e NB or any other MTC device aggregator node may store locally these parameters and provide them to the rest of the network either upon request or autonomously based on configurable triggers. For example a network element such as a home network element may store locally these parameters and provide them to another network such as a visited network or another equivalent PLMN or another shared network upon request or autonomously based on configurable triggers.

A certain portion of MTC devices may have an attribute that they may be attached registered to the network and perform data transfer for a short period of time and go back to un attached de registered state i.e. the offline MTC device via de registration or other procedures for a longer period of time for power saving and other purpose while remaining alert to receive network MTC device trigger reach signals. MTC devices with the above offline attribute may notify the network with the attribute and the information enabling the network to trigger reach them. The network may know and be able to handle the offline devices in terms of device triggering reaching. The MTC devices WTRUs may transmit the information using one or more NAS messages or a combination of RRC message together with a RAN interface message for example a combination of RRC message S1 AP or radio access network application part RANAP message. The information provided to the network may include one or more of the following.

The MTC device WTRU may provide its offline attribute to the network via NAS messages such as an ATTACH message or the NAS area update message or a detach message. For example the NAS area update message may be a tracking area update TAU . The MTC device WTRU may provide the device roaming area information to the network in the NAS procedures or messages at EMM or MM level such as the detach procedure the attach procedure or the TAU LAU RAU procedures. For example the detach procedures may be a detach request message the attach procedures may be an attach request message and the TAU LAU RAU procedures may be a tracking area update request message.

The information for example parameters provided by the MTC device to the network may be a list of tracking areas location areas routing areas or a list of cells identified for example by their global identifier. Such list may be a subset from a super list provided by the network to the WTRU during a prior information exchange between the MTC device and the network. Such list may be based on prior areas visited by the MTC device or registered by the MTC device. The roaming area information may also be one single area or a fixed location attribute such as no roam mobility.

The MTC devices may provide their device trigger reaching monitoring occasion information to the network. For MTC the network may define or provide a specific set of monitoring schedules timer values or DRX sleep cycle lengths and the device may indicate which one or more of the schedules it follows when it goes offline. The device may choose to transmit its monitoring schedule explicitly in the message before it goes offline. If there is more than one MTC monitoring mechanism such as paging vs. CBS vs. multicast the MTC device may also need to indicate which one or more than one is supported used.

The validity of the information provided by the WTRU to the network for the purpose of offline triggering may be controlled by a timer. The timer value may be infinity until waived by the device or by administration. Upon expiry of such a timer the network may purge all such information from its database and consider the offline MTC device not reachable. Alternatively the MTC device may be configured to connect to the network and refresh the network with its reachability information before or upon expiry of the timer.

The MME or SGSN or any equivalent CN node with NAS protocol capability may receive and process the messages containing the above MTC device offline and trigger reaching information. The function that makes the determination of whether or not a device is offline and reachable may be located in the MME or SGSN or GGSN S GW PGW in the HSS or HLR in the MTC IWF in the SCS or in the MTC application inside or outside the 3GPP network.

The device reachability information may be propagated from the MME to the network node where the function of offline status determination is located such as in the MTC IWF. For example the device reachability information may be parameters of location triggering mechanism and scheduling. Alternatively the MTC IWF upon receiving a request from the MTC server may query the HSS HLR in a scheme where the HSS is responsible for keeping track of the device status together with the information on how to reach the device when offline. The MTC IWF may subsequently ask the MME to trigger the device.

Alternatively the SCS may contact the SMS SC which in turn queries the HSS for the device status. Alternatively once a determination is made that a device is offline such status may be conveyed to the MTC IWF or SCS of the MTC application. Alternatively the device may be offline but not reachable for example the reachability information provided by the MTC device to the network has expired. When the device is offline and previously reachable becomes unreachable such information may be propagated back to the SCS of the MTC IWF.

Various procedures may be implemented to identify WTRUs of a certain priority or identify applications for WTRUs that have different priorities. This may be applicable when a WTRU has an emergency bearer service or is requesting an emergency bearer service. The terminology priority WTRU may refer to any combination of the following a high priority user WTRU a WTRU that belongs to a specific access class for example 11 15 or a WTRU having at least one priority application. Moreover the terminology priority application may refer to an application that is known to carry priority content a PDN connection that is associated with a known APN that provides high priority content packet application an application PDN connection or a dedicated bearer PDP context that has or requests a known quality of service QoS .

A WTRU profile may contain information indicating whether a particular WTRU is a priority WTRU or runs a priority application. The WTRU may be provided with information about being a priority WTRU via open mobile alliance OMA device management DM or other NAS messages. The WTRU may also have such information preconfigured. The WTRU may always include such information in all NAS messages including mobility and session management messages or RRC messages. The WTRU may also always indicate if the access made from idle mode is performed with access class 11 15 or any other access class. Additionally an eNB may indicate to the MME in all S1AP messages the set of classes that the eNB is allowing for access.

The network may include this information in all NAS messages or RRC messages. When the RRC in the WTRU receives such an indication the RRC may inform the NAS about it or may pass the information to the NAS.

BO timers may be provided on a per application basis. An application ID may be introduced in NAS messages in order to identify the referenced application. A WTRU that receives a BO timer for an application may not transmit any NAS messages due to requests from the application to which a BO was assigned. The WTRU may stop such a timer if the network initiates session management requests for bearers PDN connections used by this application. An application may be associated with a PDN connection mapping or a bearer mapping. The mappings may be performed via an identification that points out such an association. This identification may be part of all NAS messages. For example all NAS messages may include an application ID and an association ID that maps the application to a specific bearer. Alternatively the application ID may be used as the association parameter that maps the application to a particular bearer. BO timers may also be provided on a per bearer basis.

The CN nodes may exchange this indication. Further more this indication may be on a per application basis. Also the CN nodes may exchange information about whether the WTRU in question is allowed to be a priority WTRU or have priority applications.

When a WTRU receives an indication that it is a priority WTRU or when it already has such information for example due to configuration the WTRU may transmit mobility and session management messages that are not related to emergency calls even if the WTRU has an emergency call. The WTRU may transmit a NAS message to update the network with the new priority level. The WTRU may be allowed to transmit mobility and or session management messages that are due to requests from applications that are high priority only. The WTRU may further include indications that a particular request is for a high priority application. The WTRU may also transmit requests due to low priority applications and may indicate that the request is due to a low priority application. The WTRU may request the modification of certain bearers such that they are treated as bearers pertaining to a high priority WTRU application or non high priority depending on the current WTRU application priority. For example if the current priority for a WTRU application is high then the WTRU may indicate as such in its request for modifying the bearers. If the priority for the WTRU is low then the WTRU may request modifications indicating a non high priority WTRU.

The above may be provided via RRC messages to the eNB RNC. In this case the eNB RNC may forward such indication information to the core network nodes via new existing messages with new existing information elements IEs .

The following are network eNB RNC MME SGSN or MSC VLR actions when the network receives an indication about the WTRU s priority or priority of applications. This may be received in the form of NAS messages or S1AP RANAP messages or any similar messages .

The network may use this indication information to accept requests regardless if they are not for emergency calls. For example if the MME receives a request NAS mobility or session management message with an indication that the WTRU application is a low priority then the MME may provide a BO timer to the WTRU. The BO timer may be per APN or per application. As another example if the MME receives a request from a WTRU that indicates high priority the MME may accept the request and process it.

The network may modify the bearers for the WTRU. For example the MME may indicate to the S GW to modify the bearers of the WTRU for example using the bearer modification request. The S GW may also in turn request the PDN GW to modify the bearers for the WTRU. The modification may be such that the QoS treatment priority of the connection is improved or degraded depending on the indication received. For example if the MME receives an indication about the WTRU being a high priority WTRU for example an indication downloaded from an HSS or received from the WTRU then the MME may indicate to the S GW that the WTRU s bearers may be treated as those pertaining to a priority WTRU. This may be achieved via a new or existing IE in the messages exchanged between the MME and the S GW.

The same methodology may also apply for the S GW indication towards the PDN GW. A reverse indication may also apply for example the PDN GW may provide the S GW MME with an indication about a change in the WTRU s priority or application priority. This may be performed by transmitting a message towards the S GW which in turn may transmit a message with such an indication towards the MME. The MME may then take the actions defined above. Alternatively the MME may use this indication to modify the bearers for the WTRU and may therefore transmit NAS messages to the WTRU to indicate the change of priority of the WTRU. The MME may also inform the eNB that the WTRU priority has changed for example using S1AP messages similar to a WTRU context modification request. The eNB may upon receipt of an indication of a change in WTRU priority execute an RRC reconfiguration procedure to implement the change in WTRU priority.

The network i.e. MME SGSN GGSN PDN GW or MSC VLR may decide to provide a BO timer to the WTRU for example if the indication is from a low priority WTRU or from a WTRU that does not indicate high priority. Furthermore the network may decide to stop any existing BO timers that are running for a WTRU application that indicates high priority.

The above procedures may be applicable to both LTE and GERAN UTRAN and to both PS and CS domains core networks and may be used in any combination.

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element may be used alone or in combination with any of the other features and elements. In addition the embodiments described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Examples of computer readable media include electronic signals transmitted over wired or wireless connections and computer readable storage media. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register a cache memory a semiconductor memory device a magnetic media e.g. an internal hard disc or a removable disc a magneto optical media and an optical media such as a compact disc CD or a digital versatile disc DVD . A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a WTRU UE terminal base station Node B eNB HNB HeNB AP RNC wireless router or any host computer.

