---

title: Recording invocation of communication sessions
abstract: Systems and methods for recording a communication session between a customer and an agent of a customer center communication system are provided. In this regard, a representative method comprises: configuring a communication component of the customer center communication system to enable recording of a media stream associated with the communication session; transmitting the media stream over a network based on the configuration of the communication component; receiving the media stream over the network; and recording the received media stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413878&OS=09413878&RS=09413878
owner: VERINT AMERICAS INC.
number: 09413878
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140505
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 967 028 filed Dec. 13 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 541 313 filed Sep. 29 2006 both entitled Recording Invocation of Communication Sessions the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure is generally related to recording media streams associated with interactions between customers and agents.

A traditional passive tap recording technique includes recorders that are deployed along routes of communications. In this technique each recorder operates similar to a sniffer by analyzing pass by communication packets. The recorder records the packets corresponding to certain communication sessions based on its configuration.

In an IP telephony environment at for example a customer center recorders are typically deployed either at a voice gateway which interfaces between the Internet Protocol IP network and the public switched telephone network PSTN or at switches in order to stay along the routes of the communications. This technique has the advantages among others of 1 minimum intrusion into a communication system 2 cost effectiveness in deployment for companies with centralized office locations and 3 easy scalability for compliance recording.

To communicate with any agents at the customer center a customer communication device such as a time domain multiplexing TDM or a voice over Internet Protocol VOIP phone first sends communication signals to a call processing device of the customer center such as a soft switch. The communication signals can be sent either directly to the call processing device in case of IP to IP communications or via a media processing device such as a voice gateway in case of TDM to IP. The communication network can be a PSTN network or an IP based network.

Once the communication signals have been received the call processing device then routes the communication signals to an agent phone. After several rounds of communication signal exchange media communications between the agent s phone and customer s phone can proceed via the media processing device and distribution devices. The distribution devices are network routers and switches.

In order to record the media communications using passive tapping recorders are deployed at the media processing device or distribution devices using the network traffic monitoring or duplicating features such as Cisco Switch Port Analyzer SPAN feature on these devices. These tapping features are often available to the recorders that are directly connected to the media processing device or distribution devices namely to recorders deployed a customer center telephony system.

The traditional passive tap recording technique is typically deployed in a telephony environment that has little to no intelligence in managing and recording media communications. Customer Centers are perpetually looking for ways to improve the recording features of their telephony components. One way among others is to provide more intelligence within the customer telephony system and the recording system.

Systems and methods for recording a communication session between a customer and an agent of a customer center communication system are provided. In this regard a representative method comprises configuring a communication component of the customer center communication system to enable recording of a media stream associated with the communication session transmitting the media stream over a network based on the configuration of the communication component receiving the media stream over the network and recording the received media stream.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Customer center includes but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems are described examples of flow diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which media streams associated with an interaction can be recorded.

Referring now in more detail to the figures is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a system in which media communications can be recorded using a proxy server. A customer center telephony system has one or more agent phones that are coupled to one or more computer telephone integration CTI servers and one or more call control servers . The customer center telephony system is coupled to the recording system which includes one or more proxy servers one or more recorders and one or more recording control servers .

In general the proxy server is a computer that offers a computer network service to allow clients to make indirect network connections to other network services. A client connects to the proxy server then requests a connection file or other resource available on a different server e.g. the CTI server call control server and recording control server among others.

The proxy server functions as a single node for the customer center telephony system or any third party system not shown to communicate with. The proxy server can pass requests modified from the customer center telephony system on to the recorders to complete the requests.

Alternatively or additionally the proxy server accumulates and saves files that are most often requested in a cache. The proxy server provides the resource either by connecting to the specified server or by serving it from the cache. In some cases the proxy server can alter the client s request or the server s response for various purposes. The proxy server can also serve as a firewall. In one embodiment the proxy server can be described as a buffer between a computer and the resources being accessed.

The cache of the proxy server may already contain information needed by the time of the request making it possible for the proxy server to deliver the information immediately. Therefore the proxy server can potentially increase the speed of communication to the servers.

Alternatively or additionally the proxy server can operate in a hybrid recording environment and communicate with recorders that operate in a hybrid recording mode in which both active recording and passive sniffing are performed.

It should be noted that the proxy server is shown in as a separate device from the other components of the recording system . However the proxy server can also be deployed on one of the recorders or on other servers such as the recording control servers . The proxy server can communicate with the CTI server and or the call control server to receive call events and other call related information such as agent identifications. The communication can also involve the recording of at least one media stream associated with an interaction within the customer center telephony system .

The customer center telephony system can be configured to send call requests to or receive call requests from the proxy server . The customer center telephony system can further be configured to send duplicated media streams associated with the interactions to be recorded to the destinations negotiated in the call request process. The proxy server can also invoke and send requests to the customer center telephony system to request the duplicated media streams of interactions based on received CTI events and information or other call notification systems such as SIP for example.

The proxy server can route the duplicated media streams associated with the interactions to the recorders based on various conditions criteria or policies. The proxy server can also re direct the calls to a different proxy server based on load bandwidth or other configurations. The proxy server can communicate with the recorders using standard call control protocols such as session initiation protocol SIP H323 media gateway control protocol MGCP or skinny client control protocol SCCP or using proprietary protocols or using static configurations. The operation of the proxy server is further described in relation to .

Briefly SIP is an application layer control simple signaling protocol for Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP implementations. SIP is a textual client server based protocol that the end user systems and proxy servers can provide call forwarding callee and caller number identification basic Automatic Call Distribution ACD and personal mobility among others.

SIP addresses are generally in the form of a Uniform Resource Location URL . The SIP addresses can be embedded in Web pages and therefore can be integrated as part of implementations such as Click to talk for example. SIP using simple protocol structure provides fast operation flexibility scalability and multiservice support. SIP provides its own reliability mechanism. SIP creates modifies and terminates sessions with one or more participants. These sessions include Internet multimedia conferences Internet telephone calls and multimedia distribution. Members in a session can communicate using multicast or using a mesh of unicast relations or a combination of these. SIP invitations used to create sessions carry session descriptions which allow participants to agree on a set of compatible media types.

SIP supports user mobility by proxying and redirecting requests to the user s current location. Users can register their current location. SIP is not tied to any particular conference control protocol. It is designed to be independent of the lower layer transport protocol and can be extended with additional capabilities. SIP transparently supports name mapping and redirection services allowing the implementation of Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Intelligent Network telephony subscriber services. These facilities also enable personal mobility which is based on the use of a unique personal identity. SIP supports five facets of establishing and terminating multimedia communications 1 User location 2 User capabilities 3 User availability 4 Call setup and 5 Call handling.

SIP can also initiate multi party calls using a multipoint control unit MCU or fully meshed interconnection instead of multicast. Internet telephony gateways that connect Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN parties can also use SIP to set up calls between them. SIP is designed as part of a multimedia data and control architecture currently incorporating protocols such as Resource Reservation Protocol RSVP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP and Service Advertising Protocol SAP among others. However the functionality and operation of SIP does not depend on any of these protocols. SIP can also be used in conjunction with other call setup and signaling protocols. In that mode an end system uses SIP exchanges to determine the appropriate end system address and protocol from a given address that is protocol independent. For example SIP could be used to determine that the party can be reached using H.323 to find the H.245 gateway and user address and then use H.225.0 to establish the call.

H.323 is a protocol that generally provides audio visual communication sessions on any packet network. Currently H.323 is implemented by various Internet real time applications such as NetMeeting and Ekiga. H.323 is commonly used in voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Internet Telephony or IP Telephony and IP based videoconferencing.

MGCP is a standard protocol generally for handling the signaling and session management needed during a multimedia conference. The protocol defines a means of communication between a media gateway which converts data from the format required for a circuit switched network to that required for a packet switched network and the media gateway controller. MGCP can be used to set up maintain and terminate calls between multiple endpoints. MGCP can be used for controlling telephony gateways from external call control elements such as the media gateway controllers or call agents. MGCP assumes a call control architecture where the call control intelligence is outside the gateways and handled by external call control elements. The MGCP assumes that these call control elements or Call Agents can synchronize with each other to send coherent commands to the gateways under their control. MGCP is in essence a master slave protocol where the gateways are generally expected to execute commands sent by the Call Agents.

SCCP defines a simple and easy to use architecture. An H.323 proxy server can be used to communicate with the Skinny Client using the SCCP. In such a case the telephone is a skinny client over IP in the context of H.323. A proxy server is used for the H.225 and H.245 signaling. The end stations such as the agent phone can run what is called the Skinny Client which consumes less processing overhead. The Skinny Client can communicate with the call control server to establish a call with another phone . Once the call control server has established the call the two phones use connectionless UDP IP based communication for audio transmissions. Costs and overhead are thus reduced by confining the complexities of H.323 call setup to the call control server and using the Skinny protocol for the actual audio communication into and out of the end stations.

Upon having successfully established the dialogs the call control server instructs the agent s phone via line to send duplicated media streams of the on going call to the recorder . The agent phone duplicates media streams and sends the duplicated media streams via line in the format of the for example real time transport protocol RTP packets of the call directly to the recorder . The recorder can associate two of the media streams of the same call and record them as for example a single media stream. When the call ends the call control server terminates the dialog with the proxy server using the call control protocol via line . The proxy server sends a call end message to the recorder via line .

Referring now to the proxy server A instructs the call control server A via line A to re direct the calls to a recorder A. The call control server A instructs the agent phone A gateways not shown conference bridges not shown and other telephony components to duplicate the media streams and transmit the duplicated media streams to the recorder A. The call control server A communicates with the recorder A to establish a dialog for recording the duplicated media streams via line . The agent phone A transmits the duplicated media streams to the recorder A via line .

Referring to the proxy server B proxies the call and directs an agent phone B to send the duplicated media streams directly to recorder B. The proxy server B communicates with the recorder B to establish a dialog for recording the duplicated media streams via line . The call control server B instructs with the agent phone B to duplicate the media streams and transmit the duplicated media streams directly to the recorder B. The agent phone B transmits the duplicated media streams directly to the recorder B via line .

Referring to the proxy server C proxies the call as well as the duplicated media streams. The proxy server C communicates with the recorder C to establish a dialog for recording the duplicated media streams via line . The call control server C instructs the agent phone C to duplicate the media streams and transmit the duplicated media streams to the proxy server C. The agent phone C transmits the duplicated media streams to the proxy server C via line . The proxy server C receives the duplicated media streams and transmits the duplicated media streams to the recorder C via line .

The proxy servers in may use the standard call control calls such as SIP H323 which may or may not be the same as the protocol it uses to communicate with the telephony system to communicate with the recorders. The proxy server may also use other protocols to communicate with the recorders .

Alternatively or additionally proxy failover can be achieved by configuring the multiple proxy servers with different IP addresses but the same domain name system DNS name. In this implementation the multiple proxy servers connecting to the same pool of recorders are utilized. These proxy servers with different IP addresses on the interface connecting to the customer center telephony system are registered with the same DNS name. The customer center telephony system is configured with the DNS names of the proxy servers for communicating with the proxy servers . For example the customer center telephony system queries for the DNS of the proxy servers to obtain the proxy servers IP addresses. Responsive to the query the customer center telephony system receives the proxy servers IP addresses and maintains a list of the IP addresses in a DNS database. The customer center telephony system generally exhausts the entire list to find an IP address to successfully connect to the proper proxy server.

Alternatively or additionally proxy failover can be achieved by configuring a primary and multiple secondary proxy servers in the customer center telephony system . Alternatively or additionally a failover solution can be achieved by instructing the recorders to switch to passive sniffing recording provided that the recorders are configured with a hybrid recording mode.

In block the proxy server stores recording information received from the customer center telephony system or the recording subsystem among others. The recording information can include the recording options as mentioned above for initiating a recording session.

In block the proxy server communicates with the customer center telephony system or the recording subsystem and determines whether to record the media streams associated with the interaction based on the communication. In block responsive to the determination to record the media streams the proxy server provides recording instructions to the customer center telephony system and the recording system based on the recording information.

In the first two options mentioned above the customer center telephony system receives the calls and determines whether to invoke the calls to the proxy server for recording. In the application driven record option the customer center telephony system waits to receive instructions from the recording system and a policy system. For example the recording system may get the events of the calls on the agent phones via a CTI link. The instructions for recording from the recording system can be delivered via the CTI link to the customer center telephony system. In turn the customer center telephony system can invoke the call recording session.

Alternatively or additionally the instructions for recording can be sent to the customer center telephony system in the form of the call control protocol to directly invoke the call recording session. Alternatively or additionally the customer center s telephony infrastructure may choose to set a recording option to all extensions as a default option. For example the customer center telephony system can set application driven record as the recording option without any configuration involved. In this case the proxy server invokes the requests for recording the media streams.

In a recording system where a hybrid recording mode is provided the proxy server can decide if it needs to instruct the telephony system for active recording based on whether the call is already being recorded using the sniffing method.

In block the media streams associated with the interaction within the customer center telephony system are associated with each other so that for example the media streams can be stitched together as a single recording for archival and replay. In block the proxy server or the customer center telephony system initiates a recording session with the recording system. In block the recording system receives and records the media streams based on the recording instructions from the proxy server.

In block the proxy server determines whether to record the media streams associated with the interaction based on the communication between the customer center telephony system and the proxy server. For example the customer center telephony system can invoke the proxy server to record the interaction. The proxy server receives information pertaining to the invocation from the customer center telephony system and facilitates the process for recording the interaction.

In block responsive to the determination of recording the media streams the proxy server receives information about the media streams to facilitate associating the media streams with each other. In block the proxy server transmits instructions to the customer center telephony system for initiating a recording session. The instructions include duplicating the media streams and transmitting the duplicated media streams to a recording subsystem of the recording system. Alternatively or additionally the instructions can include transmitting the duplicated media streams to the proxy server which relays the duplicated media streams to the recording subsystem. Alternatively or additionally the proxy server can provide instructions to the recording system to initiate the recording session.

In block the proxy server can intelligently route requests to the recorders based on various criteria policies or recorder conditions. Alternatively the customer center telephony system can also intelligently route requests to the recorders based on various criteria policies or recorder conditions. In this regard either the proxy server or the customer center telephony system or both can 

In block the recording subsystem receives and records the media streams based on the associated information. The information to associate the media streams can be passed to the recording system via the call control protocol such as SIP or H323 or via the CTI link. The recording system can use the information associated with the call to stitch the two media streams and record them as a single media stream. For example a left media stream can be associated with a right media stream by using a unique identification stored in the left and right media streams. The unique identification corresponds to the interaction.

Alternatively or additionally the left and right media streams are transmitted to first and second recording subsystems of the recording system respectively. The first and second recording subsystems provide the left and right media streams respectively to be stitched together as a single stream at for example archival and replay systems. Alternatively or additionally the left and right media streams can be transmitted from the customer center telephony system to the archival and or replay systems which both can stitched together the left and right media streams as a single stream.

With regard to stitching some embodiments can for example stitch the segments together with no gap at replay stitch the segments together with a gap at replay stitch the segments together with alternative content at replay such as silence or other identifiers to signify that secured information has not been recorded and or deleted and or is protected from replay . For example such a system may also provide indication between the stitched sides which can be for example two or more sides that would provide indication to a user that something was removed for security purposes.

A network topology is the pattern of links connecting pairs of nodes of a network. The network topology provides the shape of a local area network LAN or other communications system. A given node has one or more links to others and the links can appear in a variety of different shapes. The simplest connection is a one way link between two devices. A second return link can be added for two way communication. Modern communications cables usually include more than one wire in order to facilitate this although very simple bus based networks have two way communication on a single wire.

One way among others to add more computers into a network is by daisy chaining or connecting each computer in series to the next. If a message is intended for a computer partway down the line each system bounces the message along in sequence until the message reaches the destination. A daisy chained network can take two basic forms linear and ring.

A linear topology puts a two way link between one computer and the next. By connecting the computers at each end a ring topology can be formed. An advantage of the ring is that the number of transmitters and receivers can be cut in half since a message will eventually loop all of the way around. When a node sends a message each computer in the ring processes the message. If a computer is not the destination node the computer passes the message to the next node until the message arrives at its destination. If the message is not accepted by any node on the network the message travels around the entire ring and returns to the sender. This potentially results in a doubling of travel time for data but since the message is traveling at a significant fraction of the speed of light the loss is usually negligible.

Another network topology among others is a star topology which reduces the chance of network failure by connecting all of the systems to a central node. When applied to a bus based network this central hub rebroadcasts the transmissions received from any peripheral node to the peripheral nodes on the network sometimes including the originating node. The peripheral nodes may thus communicate with all others by transmitting to and receiving from the central node only. The failure of a transmission line linking the peripheral nodes to the central node can result in the isolation of that peripheral node from all others but the rest of the system remains unaffected.

Another network topology among others is a tree topology which can be viewed as a collection of star networks arranged in a hierarchy. The tree topology has individual peripheral nodes e.g. leaves which are used to transmit to and receive from one other node only and may not act as repeaters or regenerators. Unlike the star network the function of the central node may be distributed.

As in the conventional star network individual nodes may thus still be isolated from the network by a single point failure of a transmission path to the node. If a link connecting a leaf fails that leaf is isolated if a connection to a non leaf node fails an entire section of the network becomes isolated from the rest.

In order to alleviate the amount of network traffic that comes from broadcasting everything everywhere more advanced central nodes were developed that would keep track of the identities of different systems connected to the network. These network switches can learn the layout of the network by first broadcasting data packets everywhere then observing where response packets come from.

In a mesh topology there are at least two nodes with two or more paths between them. A special kind of mesh limiting the number of hops between two nodes is a hypercube. The number of arbitrary forks in mesh networks makes them more difficult to design and implement but their decentralized nature makes them very useful. This is similar in some ways to a grid network where a linear or ring topology is used to connect systems in multiple directions. A multi dimensional ring has a toroidal topology for instance.

A fully connected complete topology or full mesh topology is a network topology in which there is a direct link between all pairs of nodes. In a fully connected network with n nodes there are n n 1 2 direct links. Networks designed with this topology are usually very expensive to set up but have a high amount of reliability due to multiple paths data can travel on.

Hybrid networks use a combination of any two or more topologies in such a way that the resulting network does not have one of the standard forms. For example a tree network connected to a tree network is still a tree network but two star networks connected together known as extended star exhibit hybrid network topologies. A hybrid topology is always produced when two different basic network topologies are connected. Two common examples for Hybrid network are star ring network and star bus network. The Star ring network consists of two or more star topologies connected using a multistation access unit MAU as a centralized hub. The Star Bus network consists of two or more star topologies connected using a bus trunk the bus trunk serves as the network s backbone .

While grid networks have found popularity in high performance computing applications some systems have used genetic algorithms to design custom networks that have the fewest possible hops in between different nodes. Some of the resulting layouts are nearly incomprehensible although they do function quite well.

Upon detecting encryption and receiving the electronic keys the proxy server determines how to decrypt the encrypted media streams shown in block . The proxy server may choose to directly forward the keys to the selected recorder via a secure connection shown in block . Again the secure connection may be a secure version of standard call control protocols such as secure sockets layer SSL and transport layer security TLS or proprietary socket connection secured by SSL or TLS.

In the scenario where the proxy server chooses to proxy the media streams the proxy server directs the customer center telephony system to send the encrypted duplicated media streams to itself shown in block . The proxy server decrypts the encrypted media streams using the electronic keys passed from the customer center telephony system. The proxy server forwards the decrypted media streams to the selected recorders via a secure connection between the recorder and itself. In block the recording subsystem can receive and record the media streams.

Secure Sockets Layer SSL and Transport Layer Security TLS its successor are cryptographic protocols which provide secure communications on the Internet for such things as e mail internet faxing and other data transfers. There are slight differences between SSL and TLS but the protocol remains substantially the same. The term SSL as used here applies to both protocols unless clarified by context.

SSL provides endpoint authentication and communications privacy over the Internet using cryptography. In typical use only the server is authenticated e.g. its identity is ensured while the client remains unauthenticated mutual authentication requires public key infrastructure PKI deployment to clients. The protocols allow client server applications to communicate in a way designed to prevent eavesdropping tampering and message forgery.

SSL involves three basic phases 1 Peer negotiation for algorithm support 2 Public key encryption based key exchange and certificate based authentication and 3 Symmetric cipher based traffic encryption. The SSL protocol exchanges records each record can be optionally compressed encrypted and packed with a message authentication code MAC . Each record has a content type field that specifies which protocol is being used.

In general the client sends and receives several handshake structures as follows. The client sends a ClientHello message specifying the list of cipher suites compression methods and the highest protocol version it supports. Then the client receives a ServerHello in which the server chooses the connection parameters from the choices offered by the client earlier.

When the connection parameters are known client and server exchange certificates depending on the selected public key cipher . The server can request a certificate from the client so that the connection can be mutually authenticated. Client and server negotiate a common secret called master secret or simply encrypting a secret with a public key that is decrypted with the peer s private key. Other key data is derived from this master secret and the client and server generated random values which is passed through a carefully designed Pseudo Random Function .

TLS SSL have a variety of security measures. Some security measures among others are numbering all the records and using the sequence number in the MACs and using a message digest enhanced with a key so only with the key can you check the MAC .

TLS SSL protect against several attacks like those involving a downgrade of the protocol to previous less secure versions or weaker cipher suites. TLS SSL include a hash algorithm in which the message that ends the handshake Finished sends a hash of the exchanged data seen by both parties.

TLS SSL further include a pseudo random function that splits the input data in two 2 halves and processes them with different hashing algorithms e.g. Message Digest algorithm 5 MD5 and Secure Hash Algorithm SHA . Then the pseudo random function logically processes e.g. XOR the two 2 halves together. This way the data protects itself in the event that one of these algorithms is found vulnerable.

Any process descriptions or blocks in flow charts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the preferred embodiment of the present disclosure in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those reasonably skilled in the art of the present disclosure.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the disclosure without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present disclosure and protected by the following claims.

