---

title: Controlling operation of a machine and describing actions performed by the machine through a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system includes information identifying a machine (e.g., a robot, a drone, a computer, a thermostat, etc.) and a connection between the machine and an owner of the machine, which is a user of the social networking system capable of authorizing an action by the machine. The owner of the machine associates permissions associated with various actions by the machine, where a permission associated with an action identifies one or more criteria for performing the action. Permissions may specify types of connections between social networking system users and the owner of the machine via the social networking system to allow social networking system users with specific types of connections to the owner of the machine to perform certain actions using the machine. Information describing an action performed by the machine may be communicated to other users of the social networking system via any suitable communication channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350743&OS=09350743&RS=09350743
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09350743
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141007
---
This disclosure relates generally to social networking systems and more specifically to regulating performance of actions of a machine via a social networking system.

An online system such as a social networking system allows its users to connect to and communicate with other online system users. Users may create profiles on an online system that are tied to their identities and include information about the users such as interests and demographic information. The users may be individuals or entities such as corporations or charities. Establishing connections with other users via an online system allows a user to more easily share content with the other users.

Additionally users are increasingly able to access various machines via client devices allowing users to remotely configure and control their machines. For example users may modify thermostat settings via an application executing on a mobile device or retrieve vehicle diagnostic information using another application executing on the mobile device. However different applications are associated with different machines making it inconvenient for a user to remotely configure or control multiple machines.

Further conventional applications for remotely controlling a machine limit control of the machine to a user having an application associated with the machine installed on a client device. But a user may benefit if additional users are capable of accessing a machine associated with the user to retrieve information or to perform actions via the machine. Conventional systems require each user accessing a machine to have an application associated with the machine installed on a client device associated with the user which allows multiple users to control or access the machine but makes it impractical for a user to regulate or limit interactions with the machine other users are authorized to perform.

A social networking system stores connections between various users allowing users to exchange content with each other. Additionally the social networking system stores information identifying a machine which is a device that receives one or more instructions and performs an action in response to the one or more instructions. For example a machine receives a control signal from the social networking system and performs an action based on the control signal. Example machines include a thermostat an automobile a drone a toaster a computer a refrigerator an air conditioner a robot a vacuum an actuator and a heater. The social networking system includes information identifying the machine and one or more connections between the machine and one or more users capable of authorizing one or more actions associated with the machine also referred to herein as owners. 

The stored information also includes various permissions associated with the machine with each permission associated with an action performed by the machine and regulating users of the social networking system who in addition to the owner of the machine are authorized to perform the action. The owner of the machine specifies or modifies permissions associated with various actions. A permission associated with an action specifies a type of connection between a user of the social networking system and the owner of the machine that authorizes the user to perform the action. In one embodiment the type of connection between a user and an owner of the machine is based on whether the user is directly or indirectly connected to the owner of the machine. Different types of indirect connections may be specified based on a number of intervening users between the user and the owner of the machine i.e. based on a degree of separation between the user and the owner of the machine . For example a permission associated with an action allows a user having a direct connection to the owner of the machine to perform the action while preventing another user having an indirect connection to the owner of the machine from performing the action. Alternatively a permission specifies a user having a connection to an owner of the machine having a specified connection strength is authorized to perform an action associated with the permission while preventing another user having a connection to the owner of the machine with less than the specified connection strength from performing the action.

Additionally the owner of the machine provides the social networking system with descriptions associated with one or more actions performed by the machine. A description associated with an action includes information for presentation to one or more additional social networking system users when the action is performed. Further the description associated with the action includes mapping information included in a request to perform the action received by the social networking system with commands or instructions for communicating to the machine to perform the action. Similarly the description associated with the action identifies content presented to one or more users of the social networking system when an indication indicating the machine performed the action is received by the social networking system from the machine.

When the social networking system receives a request for the machine to perform an action from a requesting user if the requesting user does not have a connection to the machine via the social networking system indicating the requesting user is an owner of the machine the social networking system determines a connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine and determines a type of the connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine and compares the type of connection to a permission associated with the action identified by the request. If the type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine matches a type of connection specified by the permission associated with the action the social networking system determines the requesting user is authorized to perform the action and communicates an instruction to perform the action to the machine. If the type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine does not match the type of connection specified by the permission associated with the action the social networking system determines the requesting user is not authorized to perform the action.

The social networking system presents information describing the action to the requesting user via the client device and may also present information describing the action to additional users having a connection to the requesting user. For example the social networking system presents a notification message to the user via the client device indicating the machine performed the action and may include information received from the machine based on the action in the notification message. To present information describing the action the social networking system generates a content item identifying the requesting user identifying the machine and describing the action and presents the generated content to additional users connected to the requesting user via the social networking system. If information from the machine is received when the action was performed a portion of the received information may be included in the received content item.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The client devices are one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device. In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . A third party system may also communicate information to the social networking system such as advertisements content or information about an application provided by the third party system .

Additionally one or more machines are coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system with one or more client devices or with one or more third party systems . A machine is a device that receives one or more instructions and performs an action in response to the one or more instructions. For example a machine receives a control signal from the social networking system or from a client device and performs an action based on the control signal. Example machines include a thermostat an automobile a drone a toaster a refrigerator an air conditioner a robot a vacuum a computer and a heater. Additionally a client device may be a machine . One or more permissions are associated with a machine where each permission is associated with an action and specifies one or more criteria for performing an action. The permissions may be communicated from the machine to the social networking system . Permissions and communication between a machine and the social networking system are further described below in conjunction with .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding online system user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with information identifying the social networking system users displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other online system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the online system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the online system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a page e.g. brand page or any other type of content. Online system users may create objects stored by the content store such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications or third party applications separate from the social networking system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. Hence online system users are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media to the social networking system through various communication channels. This increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

One or more objects associated with machines are included in the content store in various embodiments. An object associated with a machine includes an identifier associated with the machine that uniquely identifies the machine . In various embodiments the object associated with the machine also includes additional information describing the machine . For example the object associated with the machine includes one or more of a description of the machine e.g. a manufacturer a model number a name a description of the machine a name associated with the machine by a user of the social networking system capable of authorizing actions associated with the machine a location associated with the machine permissions associated with the machine each associated with an action and identifying one or more criteria to be satisfied for the action to be performed or other suitable information. Additionally an object associated with a machine includes information describing actions associated with the machine such as instructions or commands for communication from the social networking system to the machine to cause the machine to perform the action. For example an application programming interface describing instructions or commands for communication to the machine to perform one or more actions. Additionally information associated with actions associated with the machine includes text or image data for presentation to social networking system users to identify the actions.

The action logger receives communications about user actions internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user. In addition a number of actions may involve an object and one or more particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on third party systems that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system and information describing these interactions is stored in the action log . Examples of interactions with objects include commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items and any other suitable interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system that are included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communicating with a user establishing a connection with an object joining an event joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application expressing a preference for an object liking the object and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log may record a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting the interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website may recognize a user of a social networking system through a social plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as in the preceding example may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the social networking system to the social networking system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment the edge store stores information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. An edge between a user and another user may be associated with a connection strength specified by the user and providing information about a relationship between the user and the other user. For example connections between a user and other users with which the user has a close relationship such as family members have relatively high connection strengths while connections between the user and additional users with which the user has a more distant relationship have lower connection strengths. In some embodiments a user selects from connection strengths associated with different types of relationships e.g. family members co workers friends partners etc. when specifying a connection with another user and the edge store associates a selected connection strength with an edge describing the connection. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

The edge store includes an edge representing a connection between an object associated with a machine and a user profile associated with a user capable of authorizing one or more actions associated with the machine also referred to herein as an owner of the machine. Multiple edges between an object associated with a machine and different owners of the machine may be stored in the edge store to identify various owners of the machine . Additionally edges between an object associated with the machine and other users of the social networking system may identify connections between the other users and the machine . As further described below in conjunction with information associated with a connection between a user and a machine e.g. a type of the connection may allow the user to perform certain actions using the machine . In some embodiments the edge store also includes edges representing connections between objects associated with different machines allowing the corresponding machines to exchange information with each other via the social networking system e.g. a machine may be an owner of an additional machine or may otherwise communicate information to or perform actions using the additional machine . Additionally a connection between an object associated with a machine and an additional object associated with an additional machine may identifies the machine as an owner of the additional machine this allows the machine to specify permissions for authorizing users to perform actions associated with the additional machine .

In one embodiment an edge may include various features each representing characteristics of interactions between users interactions between users and objects or interactions between objects. For example features included in an edge describe rate of interaction between two users how recently two users have interacted with each other the rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object or the number and types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent information describing a particular object or user. For example a feature may represent the level of interest that a user has in a particular topic the rate at which the user logs into the social networking system or information describing demographic information about a user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user a target object or user and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values describing the source object or user the target object or user or interactions between the source object or user and target object or user hence an edge may be represented as one or more feature expressions.

The edge store also stores information about edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores or affinities may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest in an object or in another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest in an object a topic or another user in the social networking system based on actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 254 filed on Nov. 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 969 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 088 filed on Nov. 30 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a single edge in the edge store in one embodiment. Alternatively each interaction between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The permission manager receives requests from requesting users to perform actions associated with one or more machines connected to various users and determines whether a requesting user is authorized to perform an action via a machine . One or more permissions are associated with the machine each permission associated with an action performed by the machine and specifying one or more criteria to be satisfied for the action to be performed. An owner of the machine configures the permissions associated with the machine to limit actions that various other users may perform using the machine . A permission associated with an action specifies a type of connection between a user of the social networking system and the owner of the machine that authorizes the user to perform the action. The user of the social networking system may be a machine so a type of connection between a machine and an additional machine may authorize the machine to perform an action using the additional machine . In one embodiment the type of connection between a user and an owner of the machine is based on whether the user is directly or indirectly connected to the owner of the machine different types of indirect connections may be specified based on a number of intervening users between the user and the owner of the machine i.e. based on a degree of separation between the user and the owner of the machine . For example a permission associated with an action allows a user having a direct connection to the owner of the machine to perform the action while preventing another user having an indirect connection to the owner of the machine from performing the action. Alternatively a permission specifies a connection strength of a connection between a user and an owner of the machine authorizing the user to perform an action associated with the permission and preventing another user having a connection to the owner of the machine with less than the specified connection strength from performing the action.

In some embodiments a permission associated with an action may specify a time interval during which a user satisfying criteria specified by the permission is authorized to perform the action. For example a permission authorizes a user having an indirect connection to an owner of the machine via the social networking system to perform an action associated with the permission once during a twelve hour interval. A time interval specified by a permission may be determined or modified by an owner of the machine . In some embodiments one or more permissions associated with an action authorize users of the social networking system who are not connected to the machine or to an owner of the machine to perform one or more actions. This allows certain actions to be performed by any social networking system users. Permissions authorizing users not connected to either a machine or to an owner of the machine may specify a time interval or a number of times a particular user is authorized to perform the action or may specify other criteria to limit performance of the action by users not connected to either the machine or to an owner of the machine .

When the permission manager receives a request for a machine to perform an action from a requesting user the permission manager accesses the edge store to determine connections between the requesting user and an object associated with the machine and between the requesting user and one or more owners of the machine . If the edge store includes a connection between a user profile of the requesting user and the object associated with the machine indicating the requesting user is an owner of the machine the permission manager determines the requesting user is authorized to perform any action associated with the machine . However if the permission manger determines the edge store does not include a connection between the object associated with the machine and the user profile associated with the requesting user indicating the requesting user is an owner of the machine or that the connection between the object associated with the machine and the requesting user does not have a type matching a type specified by a permission associated with the action the permission manager determines whether the requesting user is connected to an owner of the machine based on information in the edge store . If the edge store does not include a connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine the permission manager prevents the machine from performing the action.

However if the edge store includes information identifying a connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine the permission manager determines a type of the connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine and compares the type of connection to a permission associated with the action identified by the request. If the type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine matches a type of connection specified by the permission associated with the action the permission manager determines the requesting user is authorized to perform the action and communicates an instruction to perform the action to the machine . In some embodiments users may establish direct connections to a machine through the social networking system . A connection between a user and the machine is associated with a type as described above. When the permission manager receives a request from the requesting user to perform the action the permission manager also determines a type of direct connection between the requesting user and the machine . If the social networking system includes a direct connection between the requesting user and the machine having a type satisfying a permission associated with the action the permission manager determines the requesting user is authorized to perform the action and communicates an instruction to perform the action to the machine . In various embodiments the social networking system may differently prioritize connections between the requesting user and the owner of the machine and connections between the requesting user and the machine when determining if the requesting user is authorized to perform the action. For example a type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine may take precedence over a type of connection between the requesting user and the machine when determining if the requesting user is authorized to perform an action using the machine . Determination of whether a requesting user is authorized to perform an action via a machine based on connections between the requesting user and other users of the social networking system is further described below in conjunction with .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

The social networking system stores data identifying the machine and connections between one or more users of the social networking system and the machine . For example the social networking system stores an object associated with the machine including a machine identifier uniquely identifying the machine . The object associated with the machine may include additional information associated with the machine such as a name associated with the machine model information of the machine a description of the machine or a location associated with the machine .

One or more connections between the machine and users of the social networking system are also stored . A connection between the machine and at least one social networking system user capable of authorizing one or more actions associated with the machine also referred to herein as an owner of the machine is stored . An action performed by the machine is associated with one or more permissions that regulate users capable of performing the action. The owner of the machine specifies or modifies one or more permissions associated with the action. A permission associated with an action specifies a type of connection between a user of the social networking system and the owner of the machine that authorizes the user to perform the action. For example a permission associated with an action allows a user having a direct connection to the owner of the machine to perform the action via the machine while preventing another user having an indirect connection to the owner of the machine to perform the action via the machine . As another example a permission associated with an action allows a user having a connection with at least a threshold connection strength to the owner of the machine e.g. a connection identifying the user as a family member of the owner of the machine to perform the action via the machine while preventing another user having a connection with less than the threshold connection strength to the owner of the machine e.g. a connection identifying the other user as a co worker of the owner of the machine from performing the action . Permissions associated with actions performed by the machine may be stored by the social networking system in association with the machine or with an owner of the machine or may be maintained by the machine . In some embodiments the social networking system presents the owner with an interface identifying the machine and various actions associated with the machine . The owner selects an action from the interface and specifies one or more permissions associated with the selected action via the interface with the specified permissions stored by the social networking system in association with the selected action. shows an example interface for specifying permissions associated with actions performed by a machine .

Additionally the owner of the machine provides the social networking system with descriptions associated with one or more actions performed by the machine . A description associated with an action includes information for presentation to one or more additional social networking system users when the action is performed. Further the description associated with the action includes information mapping information included in a request to perform the action received by the social networking system with commands or instructions for communicating to the machine to perform the action. Similarly the description associated with the action identifies content presented to one or more users of the social networking system when an indication indicating the machine performed the action is received by the social networking system from the machine . For example an application programming interface is received from the owner of the machine and stored by the social networking system . The application programming interface API includes one or more calls associated with an action. An API call associated with an action associates instructions for the machine to perform the action with information in a request received by the social networking system to perform the action additionally the API specifies components of an API call received from the machine when the machine performed the application. For example the API includes information for identifying the action the machine and the user who requested performance of the action from an API call received from the machine .

A client device associated with a requesting user of the social networking system transmits a request to perform an action associated with the machine to the social networking system . The request includes an identifier associated with the requesting user an identifier associated with the machine and a description of the action for the machine to perform. Upon receiving the request the social networking system determines whether a connection between the requesting user and the machine is stored by the social networking system .

The social networking system also determines connections between the requesting user and one or more users connected to the machine and capable of authorizing one or more actions associated with the machine i.e. connections between the requesting user and one or more owners of the machine . Based on the connections between the requesting user and one or more owners of the machine the social networking system determines whether the requesting user is authorized to perform the action using the machine . In some embodiments the social networking system determines whether the requesting user is authorized to perform the action based on a connection between the user and the machine if no connection exists between the requesting user and the machine or if the type of connection between the user and the machine does not match a type specified by a permission associated with the action the social networking system determines connections between the requesting user and one or more owners of the machine . In these embodiments if a connection between the requesting user and the machine has a type satisfying a type specified by a permission associated with the action the social networking system may determine the requesting user is authorized to perform the action as further described below without determining connections between the requesting user and one or more owners of the machine . Alternatively the social networking system determines connections between the requesting user and the machine and also determines connections between the requesting user and one or more owners of the machine and determines whether the requesting user is authorized to perform the actions based on types of connections between the requesting user and the machine and types of connections between the requesting user and one or more owners of the machine .

To determine whether the requesting user is authorized to perform the action the social networking system determines a type associated with a connection between the requesting user and an owner of the machine and compares the determined type to types of connections specified by permissions associated with the action. If the determined type matches a type of connection specified by a permission associated with the action the social networking system determines the requesting user is authorized to perform the action. However if the determined type of connection does not match a type of connection specified by a permission associated with the action the social networking system determines the requesting user is not authorized to perform the action. As described above in conjunction with a type of connection between the requesting user and the machine may be compared to the type of connection specified by a permission associated with the action with the social networking system determining the requesting user is authorized to perform the action if the type of connection between the user and the machine matches the type of connection specified by the permission and determining the requesting user is not authorized to perform the action if the type of connection between the user and the machine does not match the type of connection specified by the permission.

For example the social networking system includes a connection between the requesting user and an owner of the machine with a connection strength having a specified value e.g. a connection indicating the requesting user is a family member of the owner of the machine so the social networking system determines the requesting user is authorized to perform actions via the machine that are associated with permissions specifying a connection having the specified value of connection strength however the requesting user is not determined to be authorized to perform actions via the machine associated with permissions specifying a different value of connection strength. As another example the social networking system determines whether the requesting user is authorized to perform the action based on whether a connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine is direct or indirect. For example permissions associated with the machine allow users directly connected to the owner of the machine to perform a set of actions while limiting users indirectly connected to the owner of the machine e.g. users connected to an additional user that is connected to the owner of the machine to performing a reduced set of actions via the machine . In this example the social networking system compares the type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine i.e. whether the requesting user has a direct connection or an indirect connection to the owner of the machine to a type of connection specified by a permission associated with the action if the type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine matches the type of connection associated with the permission the requesting user is determined to be authorized to perform the action.

In some embodiments the permissions are hierarchical so a user having a type of connection to the owner of the machine matching a type of connection specified by permission associated with an action is also authorized to perform additional actions associated with one or more additional types of connections to the owner of the machine . For example if a user has a direct connection to an owner of the machine the user is authorized to perform actions associated with permissions specifying a direct connection to the owner of the machine as well as actions associated with permissions specifying an indirect connection to the owner of the machine . However in this example another user having an indirect connection to the owner of the machine is not authorized to perform actions associated with permissions specifying a direct connection to the owner of the machine . In some embodiments the social networking system determines different types of indirect connections to the owner of the machine proportional to a number of intervening users between the requesting user and the owner of the machine . For example if the requesting user is connected to an additional user that is connected to the owner of the machine the social networking system determines the requesting user has a first order indirect connection to the owner of the machine as another example if the requesting user is connected to an additional user that is connected to another user that is connected to the owner of the machine the social networking system determines the requesting user has a second order indirect connection to the owner of the machine. Different types of indirect connections may be associated with different permissions to regulate the actions of the machine capable of being performed by users based on the number of intervening users between a user and the owner of the machine e.g. users with a greater number of intervening users between the user and the owner of the machine are authorized to perform fewer actions .

Additionally the received request may include an amount of compensation to the owner of the machine from the requesting user if the action is performed. The social networking system may account for the amount of compensation in addition to the type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine when determining whether the requesting user is authorized to perform the action. For example the owner of the machine associates amounts of compensation with one or more actions allowing a requesting user to be authorized to perform an action if the requesting user provides the owner of the machine with at least the amount of compensation associated with the action. In one embodiment the owner of the machine authorizes a requesting user identifying at least an amount of compensation matching an amount of compensation with an action to perform the action even if a connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine does not match a type of connection specified by a permission associated with the action. Alternatively the requesting user is not determined to be authorized to perform the action unless the connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine has a type matching a type of connection specified by a permission associated with the action and the requesting user includes at least a threshold amount of compensation in the request. In some embodiments the social networking system determines a time interval during which the requesting user is authorized to perform the action based on the amount of compensation in the request. For example if the type of connection between the requesting user and the owner of the machine authorizes the requesting user to perform the action the requesting user is authorized to perform the action for a time interval proportional to the amount of compensation. When the time interval lapses the requesting user is not authorized to perform the action and may transmit an additional request to the social networking system to perform the action.

If the social networking system determines the requesting user is authorized to perform the action the social networking system transmits an instruction to perform the action to the machine which performs the action based on the instruction. For example the instruction is a control signal causing the machine to perform the action upon receipt of the control signal. Different types of machines may perform different types of actions based on an instruction received from the social networking system . Example actions performed by the machine include changing a position of the machine capturing video data capturing audio data retrieving stored data modifying one or more parameters or settings of the machine changing a state of the machine or any other suitable action. In some embodiments if the social networking system determines the requesting user is not authorized to perform the action the social networking system communicates a notification to the client device indicating the request is unable to be performed for presentation to the requesting user.

When the machine performs the action information describing the action may be transmitted from the machine to the social networking system which stores the information describing the action. For example the machine transmits an indication that the action was performed identifying the action a time associated with the action e.g. a date and time when the action was completed a date and time when the action was initiated and information identifying the requesting user the social networking system stores a description of the action and the time associated with the action in conjunction with the object associated with the machine . For example the indication is an application programming interface API call transmitted from the machine to the social networking system that identifies the action the machine and the requesting user as well as information associated with the action. The social networking system extracts the action and the other information from the API call based on stored descriptions of actions associated with the machine by the owner of the machine . The indication transmitted by the machine to the social networking system may also include information describing one or more results from performing the action. For example a result indicates if the action was successfully completed includes information describing operation of the machine when performing the action includes a time when the action was completed or other suitable information. If the action retrieves information from the machine the machine transmits the retrieved information to the social networking system . In some embodiments the social networking system stores the retrieved information then communicates the retrieved information to the client device for presentation to the requesting user. Alternatively the social networking system communicates the retrieved information to the client device for presentation to the requesting user without storing the retrieved information. Additionally the social networking system stores an association between the performed action and the requesting user allowing the action to be used when selecting content for subsequent presentation to the user. In other embodiments after determining the user is authorized to perform the action the social networking system establishes a connection between the client device and the machine allowing the user associated with the client device to directly communicate with the machine to perform the action.

In some embodiments the social networking system presents information describing the action to the requesting user via the client device and may also present information describing the action to additional users having a connection to the requesting user. For example the social networking system presents a notification message to the user via the client device indicating the machine performed the action and may include information received from the machine based on the action in the notification message.

To present information describing the action the social networking system generates a content item identifying the requesting user identifying the machine and describing the action and presents the generated content to additional users connected to the requesting user via the social networking system . If information from the machine is received when the action was performed a portion of the received information may be included in the received content item. Similarly one or more results from performing the action may be included in the generated content item. Results from performing the action or information received from the machine included in the content item may be specified by a description associated with the action allowing the owner of the machine to regulate information from the machine presented to other social networking system users. In some embodiments the description associated with the action associates different types of information or different types of results with different types of connections between other users and the owner of the machine so the information or result from the action presented to another user in a content item is based at least in part on the other user s connection to the owner of the machine . The social networking system includes the content item in a selection process that selects content for presentation to users of the social networking system connected to the requesting user via the social networking system . In one embodiment the content item is included in a selection process generating a feed of content items for presentation to the user. For example the content item is a story identifying the requesting user the machine and the action for presentation in a news feed to a user connected to the requesting user where the news feed includes various stories describing actions performed by additional users connected to the user.

Additionally the owner may request information from the social networking system describing actions performed by the machine . In one embodiment the owner communicates a request to the social networking system identifying the machine and one or more criteria for actions performed by the machine . Example criteria for actions performed by the machine include a time interval in which actions were performed a type of action a location associated with an action a specific action a type of connection between requesting users and the owner of the machine information received from the machine performing the action a type of connection between requesting users and the machine and a result from performing the action. The social networking system retrieves stored information identifying actions performed by the machine and identifies one or more actions associated with the machine and satisfying criteria included in the request. For example the social networking system identifies actions performed by the machine within a specified time interval or identifies actions performed by the machine and having a type specified by the request . Information describing the identified actions is communicated from the social networking system to a client device associated with the owner of the machine for presentation to the owner. For example an interface identifying the machine and including information associated with the identified actions e.g. a user who performed an action a time when the action was performed a result of the action etc. is presented to the owner of the machine via a client device .

In some embodiments the owner of the machine may retrieve information identifying additional machines associated with the owner from the social networking system . The owner communicates a request to identify machines associated with the owner to the social networking system which accesses stored connections associated with the user to identify machines having a connection to the owner identifying the owner as a user capable of authorizing one or more actions associated with the machines. Information identifying machines with which the owner is connected and capable of authorizing one or more actions is then presented to the owner by the social networking system . For example names or other identifying information associated with machines that the owner owns is presented to the user. From the presented information the owner may select a machine to view information associated with the machine such as actions performed using the machine or to modify permissions associated with various actions capable of being performed by the machine .

In some embodiments the machine transmits information to the social networking system for presentation to the user without receiving instructions for performing an action from the social networking system . For example the machine transmits information identifying one or more maintenance actions to be performed when the machine determines certain criteria have been satisfied e.g. a time interval has elapsed data measured by the machine satisfies one or more criteria stored by the machine . As an example the machine transmits information identifying one or more maintenance actions to the social networking system for presentation to the user to an owner of the machine or to another user connected to the machine or to an owner of the machine . The social networking system may store the information describing the action to be performed specified by the information received by the machine and present the information describing the action to the owner of the machine via the client device . By presenting the information describing the action to the owner of the machine via the social networking system the machine provides the user with a prompt such as a reminder to perform an action e.g. changing the oil of a car to request the machine to perform the action at an identified time future time. The description of actions associated with the machine may identify actions for which the social networking system presents information received from the machine when the user has not requested the machine perform an action or identify a frequency with which the social networking system presents information received form the machine when the user did not previously request the machine to perform an action.

In the example of the social networking system stores a connection A between user A and machine A indicating that user A is capable of authorizing one or more actions associated with machine A so user A is an owner of machine A. Similarly a connection B between user C and machine B identifies user C as an owner of machine B and a connection C between user C and machine C identifies user C as an owner of machine C. In the example of a connection between user A and user C has a connection strength indicating that user A is a co worker of user C while a connection between user C and user B has a higher connection strength than the connection which indicates that user C and user B are family members. Additionally a connection between user A and user B has a connection strength indicating that user A and user B are friends. In the example of the social networking system also stores a connection D between machine B and machine C. Connection D may indicate that machine B is an owner of machine C that machine B is authorized to perform certain actions using machine C that machine B receives information from machine C or is otherwise capable of performing interactions with machine C based on permissions associated with machine C.

As shown in machine A is associated with permissions A identifying input output commands associated with machine A and a type of connection between a user authorized to perform an input output command and to an owner of machine A which is capable of performing any input output command associated with machine A . In the example of the connection type specified by permissions A is based on whether a user authorized to perform an input output command has a direct connection or an indirect connection to an owner of machine A. In the example of permissions A authorize a user with any type of connection either direct or indirect to an owner of machine A to turn machine A on or off authorize an owner of machine A to record data via machine A and authorize a user indirectly connected to an owner of machine A to view data captured by machine A. Additionally permissions A are hierarchical so a user having a direct connection to an owner of machine A is also authorized to perform actions that a user with an indirect connection to the owner of machine A is authorized to perform. In permissions identify a type of indirect connection between a user authorized to view data capture by machine A limiting viewing of the data to users that are connected to a single intervening user that is connected to an owner of machine A i.e. a user with one degree of separation from the owner of machine A and preventing users connected to a series of intervening users between the user and the owner of machine A i.e. a user with two or more degrees of separation from the owner of the machine A from viewing the data. Hence in the social networking system authorizes a request from user A to record data via machine A while denying a request from user B or user C to record data via machine A. Additionally the social networking system authorizes a request from user A user B or user C to view data captured by machine A.

Also in permissions B are associated with machine B to identify types of connections between a user authorized to perform an action via machine B and an owner of machine B. Permissions B specifies connection types based on a connection strength between a user and an owner of machine B. In the example of permissions B authorize users with any type of connection to an owner of machine B to turn machine B on or off authorize a user having a connection to an owner of machine B with a connection strength indicating the user is a family member of the owner of machine B to change a channel of machine B and authorize a user having a connection to an owner of machine B with a connection strength indicating the user is a co worker of the owner of machine B to view content stored by machine B. Hence because the connection between user B and user C has a connection strength indicating user B and user C are family the social networking system authorizes a request from user B to change a channel of machine B however because the connection between user A and user C has a connection strength indicating user A is a co worker of user C the social networking system does not authorize a request from user A to change a channel of machine B but authorizes a request from user A to view content stored by machine B.

The machine identifier presented by the interface is information identifying a particular machine . For example the machine identifier is a unique identifier associated with the machine by the social networking system . As another example the machine identifier is a name or title associated with the machine by the owner. In some embodiments the owner may access the machine identifier via the interface and modify a name or a title associated with the machine by the social networking system .

Along with the machine identifier the interface shown in presents a set of commands associated with the machine . The set identifies various commands communicated to the machine to cause the machine to perform an action as well as one or more permissions associated with each command. In the example of the permission associated with a command is a type of connection between a user and the owner of the machine or between the user and the machine as further described above in conjunction with . However in other embodiments any suitable information associated with a connection between a user and the owner of the machine or with the machine .

To associate a permission with a command the owner selects a command from the set causing the interface to present options for permissions to associate with the selected command . The options for permissions may be presented in a list in drop down menu or in any other suitable format. In some embodiments a default permission is associated with the selected command and may be visually distinguished from other permissions in the options . If a permission is currently associated with the selected command the options may visually distinguish the currently associated permission from other permissions. When the owner selects a permission from the options the selected permission is communicated to the social networking system for association with the selected command performed by the machine associated with the machine identifier .

Additionally the interface may include an interface element for associating additional commands with the machine . If the owner selects the interface element the social networking system may retrieve information from the machine such as descriptions of additional actions performed by the machine . Alternatively if the owner selects the interface element the social networking system prompts the owner to provide information describing an additional action. The information describing the additional action may include an instruction for communication to the machine a result or information received from the machine when the action has been performed and one or more permissions associated with the additional action. The social networking system stores the information describing the additional action in association with the machine for subsequent use by other social networking system users .

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the patent rights to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the patent rights be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the patent rights which is set forth in the following claims.

