---

title: Wireless time attendance system and method
abstract: A system and method for tracking and communicating time and attendance data for workers at a remote worksite is disclosed. A portable time and attendance device is configured to receive and store worker time attendance data and transmit the data to a remote computer via a wireless network, such as a wireless cellular communications network. In order to conserve battery power, a main unit of the device periodically queries an electronic time and attendance clock of the device according to a pre-established schedule to determine if new worker time and attendance data has been received. If so, according to the pre-established schedule, the new worker time and attendance data is transmitted to the remote computer via the wireless network. Otherwise, certain functions and components of the device remain in a low battery usage sleep mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436933&OS=09436933&RS=09436933
owner: Exaktime Innovations, Inc.
number: 09436933
owner_city: Calabasas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140124
---
The present invention generally relates to time clocks and timekeeping apparatuses. More particularly the present invention relates to a timekeeping system specifically designed for monitoring employee time and automatically and wirelessly sending employee time data to a remote location.

It is common practice for employees to clock in and clock out when checking in and out of work such as when arriving at work taking a lunch break and leaving for the day. The use of time clocks for tracking employee attendance and duties is commonplace.

In some cases a punch card or the like is used wherein the employee inserts a card or paper into the machine which provides a date and time stamp. This occurs over the course of a day week several weeks etc. constituting the shift or work period for the employee. The supervisor or individual in charge of payroll must physically collect the time cards at the end of the shift or work period and calculate the hours worked each day for each employee. This is a time consuming and expensive task.

More recently advanced versions of time clocks are electronic or digital in nature and the employee clocks in and clocks out by means of a code inputted into the device either manually or by means of a swipe card or the like. Time and attendance records can be electronically pulled from the timekeeping apparatus in a variety of ways. In one way the timekeeping apparatus is networked to a computer which has the necessary timekeeping management software. This is often the case for example when the one or more time clocks are within the same building and electronically wired and connected to the building manager s computer.

However there are many instances where such an arrangement is simply not feasible. For example the building might not be wired for network access between different offices or locations. In yet other instances employees work at multiple buildings or job sites. In fact in some industries such as the construction industry employees and workers might work at different locations throughout a given time period. The construction industry also presents additional challenges in that the time attendance clock must be suited for outdoor use.

Applicant Exaktime Inc. currently offers a time attendance clock sold under the name JobClock which is the subject of U.S. Pat. No. 7 298 673 B2 which automates timekeeping procedures while being specifically designed for outdoor use such as at job construction sites and the like. In accordance with this time attendance system a touch button also referred to as a KeyTab manually held by the employee is touched to a portion of the time attendance clock to clock in or clock out. Periodically a payroll manager or supervisor collects the electronic time attendance records by visiting each time clock at each jobsite and downloading the time attendance records. This is typically done every week or two and by means of a hand held device which is capable of electronically communicating with the time attendance clock by infrared or Bluetooth.

While overcoming many disadvantages of the manual time tracking procedures and being much more durable than traditional time clock apparatuses this device and system also presents several drawbacks. Exaktime s jobClock apparatus and system still requires the need to manually collect the data by requiring direct user action to collect the data. This often means a collection device is needed such as an infrared or RF device or a computer. Collection must be performed in a specific window of time and certainly after the desired time attendance records have been captured. A person is required to perform the collection which must either be done at the physical location where the clock is located or the clock must be brought into the office or other collection point making it temporarily unavailable for site usage. Of course this causes the business to incur transportation and labor costs so that the clock can be used.

In some cases the worker forgets to clock in when they arrive at the start of their shift or clock out such as at the beginning of a lunch break or at the end of their shift. These missing time attendance time punches have proven difficult to deal with particularly when the time attendance records are not collected for several days or weeks later and the missing time punches are found. Also in the case of remote jobsites management is not aware of who was tardy on time early missing from the jobsite etc. until several days or weeks after the fact when the data is collected and processed.

In certain industries such as the construction industry it is common for jobsites to initially not have AC power from the power grid at least during the initial phases of construction including when surveying the land grading the land pouring foundations and even the initial framing of the building. During these phases electrical power from the local municipality or power grid may not be available to all locations within the worksite and in some cases not available to the worksite whatsoever. Some construction projects can be quite remote from the general contractor s or construction company s headquarters and thus physically collecting the time and attendance data from the workers at the worksite is inconvenient and difficult. There are instances where a worksite may not have access to alternating current electrical power for several weeks or months or a supervisor or the like may not be available to collect the records from the timekeeping apparatus for several weeks at a time.

Accordingly there is a continuing need for a system for tracking and communicating time attendance data for workers at a remote worksite. Such a system should include a portable time and attendance device which is capable of both being battery powered as well as powered by alternating current. Such a portable time attendance device should be configured to receive and store worker time attendance data and transmit the data to a remote computer via a wireless network. Such a system and device should be designed and configured so as to conserve battery power to enable the device to operate for a prolonged period of time without the need to recharge or replace the batteries or supply power from the power grid. The present invention fulfills these needs and provides other related advantages.

The present invention resides in a system and related method for tracking and communicating time and attendance data for workers at a remote worksite. The system of the present invention can operate without power from a power grid for several weeks or months at a time while still automatically and regularly receiving and storing and transmitting worker time and attendance data.

The system generally comprises a portable time and attendance device which is configured to receive and store worker time attendance data and transmit the data to a remote computer via a wireless network. The portable time and attendance device comprises a main unit having a power module including a battery an electronic controller an electronic memory and a communications module for transmitting and receiving data via the wireless network. Typically the power module of the portable time and attendance device comprises an adapter for receiving alternating current power in addition to the battery power. In one embodiment the communications module is configured to receive and transmit data via a wireless cellular communications network.

An electronic time clock associated with a portable housing containing the main unit is in electronic communication with the main unit and comprises a user interface for entering worker time attendance data. The electronic time clock also includes an internal clock a memory for storing the entered worker time attendance data and a second battery for powering the electronic time clock at least when the electronic time clock does not receive power from the main unit battery.

The main unit is configured to periodically request recorded time and attendance data from the time and attendance clock according to a preset schedule. The recorded time and attendance data is forwarded to the remote computer via the wireless cellular communications network if there is new time and attendance data since the prior transmission.

The time and attendance device may include a GPS module for determining the location of the time and attendance device.

The portable time and attendance device may also include a status notification interface. Typically this comprises a plurality of LEDs which are illuminated in combination and or flash to alert a user of the status of the device.

In accordance with the invention time and attendance data for a worker is received on the electronic time clock. The time and attendance data for the worker is stored on the electronic memory of the electronic time and attendance clock. Typically a worker identity and a time that the worker clocked in or clocked out is associated with the time and attendance data stored in the time and attendance clock electronic memory.

Periodically the main unit queries the electronic time and attendance clock according to a pre established schedule to determine if new worker time and attendance data has been stored on the electronic memory of the electronic time and attendance clock. If there is new worker time and attendance data since a prior transmission the new worker time and attendance data is transmitted to a remote computer via the wireless network. New worker time and attendance data from the electronic memory of the time and attendance clock is retrieved and stored on the main unit prior to transmitting the new worker time and attendance data to the remote computer.

Status data of the time and attendance device may be transmitted when transmitting the time and attendance data. This can include device power data. This can also include transmitting device GPS data with the time and attendance data.

A text message may be transmitted when the time and attendance data is transmitted to the remote computer. For example the text message may comprise a Twitter notification Tweet notifying the recipient that data was transmitted and received.

At least the communications module of the main unit enters a sleep mode between scheduled query and transmission times.

Typically the time and attendance clock uses the main unit power supply as a primary source of power. However the time and attendance clock will use power from the second battery of the time and attendance clock as a backup power supply when power from the main unit power supply is not available.

Device status notifications may be conveyed to a user via a predetermined pattern of illumination of a plurality of LEDs such as when a clock in or clock out event occurs when records are being transmitted or as an indication of battery supply.

The receiving and storing of the time and attendance data of a worker on the electronic time and attendance clock and the transmitting of time and attendance data from the main unit can occur asynchronously.

The device may receive text messages such as from a Short Message Service SMS from a remote computer to provide device software and firmware updates query the device as to its status etc.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following more detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

As shown in the accompanying drawings for purposes of illustration and explanation the present invention resides in a system and method for tracking and communicating time attendance data for workers at a remote worksite. As will be more fully described herein the time and attendance device is configured to receive and store worker time attendance data and transmit data to a remote computer typically a server of a gateway service via a wireless network preferably a wireless cellular communications network.

The time and attendance device is configured to receive power by means of alternating current from a power grid of the local municipality or also by means of battery power. The batteries can be rechargeable or replaceable. The system and device are configured and designed so as to conserve battery power and use very low power over operational time. This results in the device being powered by the primary battery for several weeks at a time without need of recharging or replacing the battery. Furthermore in the event that the main battery becomes critically low a backup second battery powers a electronic time clock portion of the device such that worker time and attendance data can be received and stored by the electronic time clock for later transmission when the main battery is recharged replaced or a source of alternating current is supplied to the device. The backup battery can provide power to the electronic time clock and allow it to perform its very limited functions for up to several additional months.

The system and method of the present invention enables workers to clock in and clock out using the time attendance device at the remote job location while allowing the employer or management to have updated information on a periodic basis. The periodic basis may be set to every hour that there are new time and attendance data entries every few minutes at certain times of the day at the end of the day at the end of the week at the end of the work period at the end of the pay period etc. as determined and configured by the manufacturer or user of the time attendance device.

Depending upon the pre established periodic basis that the new worker time and attendance data is transmitted this enables employers and managers to know who is on the jobsite and when they arrived. By extrapolation they will know who is not on the jobsite when they should be. This knowledge allows exceptions to be handled as they occur rather than at the end of the work week or pay period when the time is recorded in the normal course of action with other disconnected systems. This also permits management to know who is tardy on time or early in near real time. Exceptions such as missing time punch data when the worker forgets to clock in or clock out can be addressed quickly and proximately to the time they occur rather than several weeks or days later. This also permits the employee to more accurately recall the time they arrived or left rather than trying to recall this information many days or weeks later. The system of the present invention also assists with security safety and compliance by knowing where the workers are.

With reference now to a diagrammatic illustration is provided showing the architecture of the system of the present invention. The system comprises a portable time and attendance device which is configured to receive and store worker time attendance data and transmit the data to a remote computer which is typically a server such as a cloud based server that acts as a gateway service between the portable time and attendance device and the customer premise equipment or computer which is typically the one or more computers of the general contractor manufacturing company or other company which is using or owns the portable time and attendance device and whose workers are utilizing the device at a remote worksite.

It is contemplated by the present invention that the portable time and attendance device could communicate directly with the customer s computer . However it has been found that using the remote computer or server of the cloud service s gateway provides benefits. Passing the time and attendance data and other data such as the operational status of the device through the gateway service allows the gateway service information technology personnel to handle all issues and configurations which will be pre established so that purchase configuration and use of the device by the end user will take very little time and effort. Moreover passing the data through the gateway service avoids having to send the data to an office through a firewall and eliminates risks for attacks via the Internet by spyware malware etc. Furthermore if the time and attendance device is experiencing operational issues the gateway service is able to recognize these issues and either address or correct them as needed or contact the end user customer such as when the primary battery of the device needs to be recharged or replaced. The gateway service can parse or remove data relating to the operational functioning of the device and instead only save the relevant worker time and attendance data for later retrieval by the end user customer or forward such data to the end user customer as is determined by these parties.

With reference to the device includes a case or housing which houses the various electronic components modules etc. The device includes what is referred to herein as a main unit which includes a main microcontroller or control board . The MCU includes a charging and power control circuit which connects to the battery and alternating current AC adapter . The charging and power control circuitry battery and AC adapter are collectively referred to herein as a power module. The battery is considered to be the primary battery of the entire device . Although the battery may comprise one or more batteries which may be replaceable typically the one or more batteries are rechargeable. The battery is only used when there is no AC power supplied to the AC adapter . The main control board also includes indicator control circuitry which control the illumination of a plurality of LEDs as will be more fully described herein. The main control unit also includes electronic memory which can be used to store any necessary firmware software updates worker time and attendance data as they are pulled from the electronic clock of the device etc.

The electronic time clock is in electronic communication with the main unit . However it is considered by the present invention to be a distinct component module or unit from the main unit and in fact may comprise a physically separate electronic time clock which may be housed within or otherwise associated with the case or housing . For example the electronic time clock may comprise the time clock described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 298 673 B2 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. In such a case an electrical contact as illustrated in would be accessible for a worker to touch a KeyTab thereto such that the worker can clock in and clock out as described in the 673 patent. However it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the electronic clock can comprise any suitable time keeping clock which can receive and store worker time and attendance data by any other means. However preferably the time clock of the device will not require power hungry input mechanisms such as an LCD touch screen or the like in order to conserve the main battery power for prolonged periods of time.

As shown in the electronic time clock includes an internal clock for associating a date and time stamp or record with each worker clock in or clock out time and attendance event. In accordance with the present invention this is saved to electronic memory associated with the electronic time clock for later retrieval by the main unit .

The electronic time clock also includes a second backup battery . Typically the electronic time clock will receive its power from the AC power adapter or the primary battery of the device . However when AC power is not available and when the level of power available within the primary battery becomes exhausted or too low to operate the time clock the time clock reverts to its own secondary battery . In such cases the device is configured such that the secondary battery operates only at the time clock such that the time clock can receive worker time and attendance data as workers clock in and clock out time and date stamp these records and save them within memory for later retrieval and transmission. The battery which is typically one or more lithium batteries is able to service the electronic time clock with these minimal functions for several weeks to several months at a time.

It is anticipated that during this time either AC power will be supplied to the device or the main battery will either be replaced or recharged such that the worker time and attendance data may be retrieved from memory and transmitted by the device . However worker time and attendance data acquired during that time will not be lost. In fact depending upon the type of electronic time clock used such as the time clock illustrated and described in the aforementioned 673 patent the electronic time clock may include an infrared or Bluetooth functionality for communicating directly with a handheld device held within range of the electronic time clock . Thus in these unusual and emergency situations worker time and attendance data can be retrieved from the device without transmitting to the gateway service .

As mentioned above the electronic time clock portion of the device is in electronic communication with the main unit . Typically the electronic time clock is electronically connected to a wireless communications module of the main unit . Such a communications module may be a separate unit which is electronically tied to the time and attendance clock and the main control board and other electronic components of the main unit or comprise the necessary microcontrollers circuitry modems etc. built integrally with the main unit . In the case of a distinct separate unit within the housing but interconnected between the electronic time clock and the main unit control circuitry an exemplary module may comprise a cellular modem with embedded Java engine such as the Cinterion TC65i. In any event the communications module includes the necessary electronics and devices to communicate with a wireless data network represented by the dash line in such as a GSM Network which may comprise for example a wireless cellular communications network such as the AT T Network using necessary technology for data communications such as Edge 2G 3G or the like. Of course it will be appreciated that different wireless modules and cellular data communications network could be used in the present invention.

With reference again to the communications module comprises a controller which operates the communications module and interfaces with the electronic time clock a cellular modem such as an GSM Radio Quad Band modem or the like and a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card so as to provide the specific subscriber identity of the time attendance device . This enables the remote receiving computer to be able to identify the device and its owner.

With reference to electronic schematics are shown of the various modules and electronic components of the device including the MCU or control board the power module the communications module the indicator control circuitry and LEDs and the electronic time clock .

Also shown in is a Global Positioning System GPS module which can be incorporated into the device for providing GPS location of the time and attendance device such that the employer or manager or the like can readily identify the location of the device and associated jobsite. This can be important as in some industries the jobsite locations vary over time such as in the construction industry.

With reference now to electronic schematic diagrams are shown for the microcontroller unit or control board and related components such as the LEDs .

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the electronics schematics illustrated in are for exemplary and illustrative purposes of an embodiment of the invention and can be modified as needed in order to attain the functionality and principles of the invention.

The main control unit or control board of the main unit is used to handle charging circuitry power management and control of the LEDs . Based upon the input state for the LED the microcontroller then sets the LED on off slow blinking or fast blinking as will be more fully described herein. When the LED is blinking the amount of time it is on and off is set to conserve battery power in accordance with the present invention. Preferably the system defaults to slower blinking which conserves more power than a fast blinking LED. The main control board also initializes and communicates with the GPS module. The embedded software communicates with the microcontroller to get the GPS NEMA string. The main control board also initializes the cellular modem and starts the embedded software of the communications module and more particularly the controller . The main control board also has a watch dog process that will detect if certain conditions exist and in those cases reboot the cellular modem and restart the embedded software as necessary. It will even reboot the microcontroller if needed. The main control board has the connections for the In and Out from the cellular modem to the microcontroller the time attendance clock USB and all other IO ports the cellular modem supports. The main control board also monitors battery voltage the charging state and any manual overrides. It also has the ability to receive remote firmware updates over the air such as from the gateway service . Whenever possible the microcontroller runs using very little power and allows the communications module particularly the modem to go into a very low power state or sleep mode and to be initiated and woken up at a prescribed time.

Periodically as dictated by the design of the device and or the owner and user of the device worker time and attendance data is collected and wirelessly sent via the wireless network to the remote computer and or gateway service and then on to the customer s computer . Preferably this is not done continuously but according to a pre established schedule so as to conserve battery power. For example the device can be configured such that every minute the device queries whether there are any new worker time and attendance data which has been received by the electronic time clock . It will be appreciated that this query can occur once a minute once an hour once a day etc. The less frequent the occurrence of the query the greater the battery conservation.

Typically upon querying the electronic time clock for new worker time and attendance data if there is any new time and attendance data the main unit will retrieve that data and store it on its own memory . Then according to a pre established schedule the new time and attendance data which has been accrued will be transmitted via the wireless network such as the described cellular communications network. For example the main unit may query the electronic time clock to see if any new worker time and attendance data has been received and saved on its memory . If so this is retrieved and placed upon the memory of the main unit .

However in order to conserve battery power this new worker time and attendance data is not necessarily sent at that time. Instead the main unit may query the electronic time clock multiple times such as over the course of an hour before transmitting the worker time and attendance data retrieved over the course of that hour. If no new worker time and attendance data has been received by the electronic time clock between the pre established times for transmitting data no data will be transmitted and no transmission will occur in order to conserve battery power. Thus a transmission of data will only occur when new worker time and attendance data has been received by the electronic time clock and retrieved by the main unit . This will prevent the device from unnecessarily powering the communications module and initiating a transmission when there is no new worker time and attendance data to be transmitted. Thus for example there may be a prolonged time period such as between six p.m. and seven a.m. when no workers will clock in or clock out and thus the device will not transmit during this time period in order to conserve battery power. Typically however the main unit such as the controller will periodically query the electronic time clock to see if any new worker time and attendance data has been received according to the pre established schedule. Otherwise all systems that are not needed are placed into a sleep mode or low battery usage state in order to conserve battery power.

The device s primary battery is preferably a rechargeable battery such as a lithium ion battery that powers the device . In accordance with the battery conservation measures taken by the invention the battery is estimated to last approximately thirty days of normal device usage. If the typical pay period is every week or two weeks the device will be capable of operating and functioning according to normal usage for anywhere from two to four pay periods without requiring recharging or any other maintenance.

As described above in the event that the primary battery is discharged or of a very low charge the battery of the electronic time clock can serve as a backup source of power for the electronic time clock so that the clock can continue to receive and record worker time and attendance data. The secondary battery may also be used to power a visual and or audio notification or confirmation that the time punch has been received. The time and attendance data remains safely stored on the device until the main battery is recharged outside power supplied through the AC adapter or until the data is collected using an infrared or Bluetooth collector device or the like.

Workers can continue to clock in and clock out as the electronic time clock portion of the device can operate without the main battery or AC adapter for several weeks or months. This is important as the device of the present invention is often used in workplace situations such as construction sites where reliable alternating current power is not readily or consistently available at all or for prolonged periods of time. For example when a construction site is first graded the foundations laid and the building framed there may not be a reliable source of AC power available to the device . Thus the batteries and are incorporated into the device and the device is designed and configured to last several weeks up to even several months before the need for recharging or replacement.

With reference again to the device includes a depressible button referred to as a manager button which when pressed and released will act as a manual override and send worker time and attendance data to the remote computer gateway via the wireless communications network. However the device will not go through the transmission process if the outbox is empty of any new time and attendance data. The external manager button which can be placed at the rear of the device so as not to be accidentally depressed can also be depressed for a predetermined period of time to start or restart the device . Upon startup an LED sequence will begin as controlled by the indicator control of the main unit . If there is data in the outbox it will be sent after the restart is complete.

The LEDs as illustrated in visually indicate various states and functionality of the device . In one embodiment the first LED is a red green LED indicating charging and power status. A slow blinking green light is used to indicate that the device is using battery power and is in normal operation. A solid green light indicates that the battery is fully charged and the device is plugged in to an AC source. An alternating blinking green red indicates that the primary battery is low. Typically this will be able to be viewed for a prolonged period of time such as a few days. A fast blinking red light indicates that the battery is too low to connect to the cellular network. A solid red LED illumination indicates that the battery is charging.

The second LED is an alert or warning LED and typically red. A slow blinking red light indicates that the clock is not connected to the wireless network or was not able to sync or otherwise had trouble transmitting on the last attempt.

The next light referred to as the outbox light in is typically a yellow LED. When slowly blinking it indicates that there is data that needs to be transmitted. When blinking at a faster rate this indicates to the user that the data is currently being transmitted.

The fourth LED illustrated in the signal LED is typically a white LED and blinks if the device has a strong enough signal to send data. It does not blink if there is no signal that is the device is unable to connect to a wireless network such as the preferred cellular network. Time and attendance data and records will not be sent from the device in such a state. Other combination of light patterns can be used to notify the user of various device status functions etc.

With reference again to the housing case is comprised of a rugged ABS housing which is of a lightweight build and design but which is ruggedized so as to be used in virtually any workplace including outdoor construction sites and the like. The device is capable of withstanding direct sunlight high temperatures into the hundreds low temperatures below freezing and is waterproof. The device can be left outdoors while it is running on internal battery power. Typically however if the AC adapter is being used to provide power the device is used indoors and not exposed to water. Otherwise the device is waterproof and weatherproof.

The device s rugged ABS case housing and lightweight build is designed to track time and attendance anywhere saving trips to and from worksites. Its portability is ideal for contractors school facilities property managers and other employers which need to track employee s work time remotely. The build and design of the device allows it to be put anywhere whether it be in the rain snow desk high temperatures low temperatures etc. It is comprised of a rugged anti shock military grade ABS plastic case. It can operate from a negative ten degrees Fahrenheit to one hundred seventy degrees Fahrenheit and when using battery power is waterproof.

In the illustrated embodiment the device includes a handle which can be used to carry the device from worksite to worksite or within different places to clock in and clock out within the worksite. The handle can also be used to hang the device from a hook or other projection at the worksite. The device may have holes apertures or recesses into which can be placed heads of nails screws etc. for holding the device upon a wall board etc. It is also contemplated that the device can be mated with a holding plate which would be attached to a board wall etc. so as to more securely hold the device in place.

The device of the present invention is provisioned for each user. Provisioning refers to the steps needed to assign the device to a particular customer allowing it to send data to that customer s computer and the related time attendance software which the user utilizes. This includes providing the SIM card in the device and associating that SIM card with the device and the customer. This enables the gateway service as well as the customer s computer to recognize and be able to communicate with the device by receiving periodic wireless data downloads.

With reference now to the steps taken in a typical setup process are shown. The process begins with the query as to whether this is a device of the present invention. If so the system queries if the cloud service s gateway account has been set up . If not a cloud services account is set up for the customer. Once the customer has a cloud services gateway account set up connection to the cloud services gateway account is verified . The device is then bound with the cloud services account and a setup confirmation SMS message is sent . The jobsite and effective date are selected and the setup process is completed .

After the device is provisioned during the startup sequence the device performs housekeeping and internal consistency checks. It initializes the GSM network connections and acquires the GSM network date and time. It also sets the local device date and time such as using the GPS module. It also informs the gateway that it has been started and or rebooted. When the startup is complete the device sounds an audio alert informing the users on the site that the device is ready to use. It also scrolls through the signal outbox alert and power LEDs rapidly such as three times to provide a visual indication that it is ready for use. It then sends the contents if any of the outbox which constitute worker time and attendance data time stamp punches and record data which have not been previously sent.

Virtually zero configuration is required for the device . All configuration is handled over the air which permits initial setup and deployment to take under one minute per device . The device operates on extremely low power sending thousands of records and lasting more than a month with typical usage. As indicated above the data is sent automatically at specified pre established intervals. The default configuration is to send data every hour if there is data to be sent. This is customizable down to the minute. Of course as described above the manager button when pressed forces the device to send immediately rather than waiting for the specified interval.

With reference now to flow charts are illustrated describing the steps taken during startup and main processing of the device . The device is powered on . This powers the microcontroller that is on the device main board. This is a low power processor that drives the LEDs GPS module charging circuits cellular chip and other peripherals. When the microcontroller is turned on it sets the Alert LED into fast blink . This is the only LED turned on. This is an indication that the main board has power and the microcontroller is running.

The microcontroller then starts the embedded application wherein the microcontroller turns on the cellular modem and sends an AT command to start the embedded application. The embedded application opens a serial connection with the microcontroller . This is used to obtain the state of the microcontroller and to send commands to the microcontroller. The microcontroller s state includes the state of each LED battery voltage AC connection external button press and others. The embedded application sends commands to the microcontroller like turn on Alert LED off give GPS NMEA National Marine Electronics Association string and others.

The device then gets the RESET code from the microcontroller. This indicates why the device was reset if it was reset. This could be for a number of reasons including the microcontroller or cellular modem restarting for an unknown reason the power switch being turned on the reset pin on the microcontroller being pulled to ground the microcontroller watch dog process rebooting the microcontroller the cellular modem sending a reset command to the microcontroller the microcontroller having not received a command from the embedded application for a predetermined period of time when not in sleep mode the microcontroller determining that the embedded application is no longer responding the microcontroller receiving a debug command over the air firmware update requests including a reboot request or over the air firmware update has failed. The LEDs are then scrolled typically one at a time during the startup sequence. By only having one LED light on at a time power usage is kept to a minimum.

With reference now to old SMS messages are cleared and removed from the device so that the device starts in a clean state . The system then checks to see if the device is automatically registered with a cellular carrier . If not the system checks to see if the device shows that it is being blocked by a carrier . If not a list of carriers is obtained that are currently available in the area . For example this could return T Mobile and AT T. The system then tries to connect to the first carrier to which the device is registered. For example the device may attempt to connect to the AT T network. The system then determines whether it can connect to that first carrier . If not the system determines if there are additional registered carriers which can be attempted. If so the next carrier or wireless network system is attempted . If the device cannot connect to a wireless network carrier the startup sequence is aborted and the scrolling LEDs is stopped and an alternate Alert LED and Signal LED are illuminated to inform the user of the device of the status. This informs the user that the device has had a failure to register and connect with a wireless network carrier.

If the device was determined as being blocked the system queries whether it has been at least twenty four hours since it has been unblocked . If it has been greater than twenty four hours then the system attempts to unblock the device so as to begin the process of obtaining available carriers and trying the first and second carrier to connect to a wireless network carrier as described above.

If the system determines that the device is registered with a carrier or the device has been connected with the wireless network carrier as described above the Access Point Name APN is set based on the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI of the SIM card installed . This allows one code base to support U.S. and Canadian carriers without user input. The network date and time are obtained and the cellular chip is set . This is obtained from the wireless network tower that the device is registered with.

The system then determines whether the device has the setting to block it from changing the date time on the device . Referring now to if the time can be set the date and time is set on the clock device . After this step or if the time cannot be set the daylight saving time values for the device are obtained . By default all the devices set the date and time on the electronic time clock upon startup. The daylight saving time values are made via a web service call to the gateway to request the daylight saving time settings for the device. The settings could be different for each customer. For example a customer could decide not to follow daylight saving time and in turn the device will not follow the daylight saving time. However if the customer decides to use the daylight saving time settings the daylight saving time settings are set on the clock . Preferably the electronic time clock has daylight saving time capabilities and can handle daylight saving time changes which helps reduce power usage by not having the embedded software continuously check to see if daylight saving time has changed and then set the electronic time clock. This allows for the electronic time clock to always be at the correct time and not have to wait for the device to set it.

The cellular chip is then set to the low power sleep mode . When the embedded software is idle the cellular chip will go into a low power state. A message is sent online to the gateway . This comprises a web service call to the gateway with a message stating that the device is now online. The message includes some information about the device including the date time of the device firmware and software versions signal strength and other data.

With reference now to if a reset code was reported other than normal power up the reset code is sent with a message to the gateway stating the RESET code and the reason for the reset if there is one that can be determined. The RESET message and code are then reset . Thereafter or if a reset code has not been recorded startup sequence tones are sent to the clock . This is an audible indication to the user that the device is up and running. For power saving purposes the scrolling of the LEDs is stopped . To signify the end of the startup sequence all of the LEDs are turned on and off in sequence three times .

With reference to after the end of the startup sequence the main program loop begins. This is a tight loop that is part of the power conservation. The loop checks to determine if the program should be shut down . If so the LEDs are turned off and the Set Alert LED is set to a fast blink which indicates that the embedded code is no longer running.

If the system is not to be shut down the system gets the microcontroller state . As a power saving measure the system reduces the amount of serial communication that occurs with the microcontroller. The system then determines if the device has a critical voltage level but is now on AC power . If so the critical voltage state is cleared . However if not the system determines if the device is at or below the critical voltage level . If the device is at the critically low voltage level the LEDs are turned off and the Charging LED is set to fast blink as an indication that the device is at a critical battery voltage and will no longer transmit data. The critical voltage state is set and the sleep timer is set to default . This tells the microcontroller how long to leave the cellular modem in sleep mode.

The system then determines if the device is transmitting that is transmitting worker time and attendance records. If so the system determines whether the device is charging . This indicates if the charging circuit is active. This can be a No and the AC can still be connected which would just mean that the battery is fully charged. The system determines whether the AC is connected . If the AC is connected the power LED is set to on which indicates to the user that the device is plugged in. If the AC power cord is connected the Charging LED is set to off . It is set to off as the charging circuit will turn it to ON or OFF automatically based on if it is charging or not.

However if the AC power cord is not connected to the device the system determines whether there is low voltage power from the battery . If so the Power and Charging LED is set to a slow alternating blink to indicate to the user that the device is at a low battery level. The device is then set to a low voltage state .

Referring back to step if the AC is not connected and the battery is not low the Power LED will be set to a slow blink indicating that the device is powered on and functioning normally. The Charging LED is set to off .

Referring back to step if the device is charging the Power LED is set to a slow blink . The Charging LED is set to off . The low voltage state is cleared .

Referring now to the device determines if this is a new low voltage state in other words is the low power state set and is it the first time that the device is in that state since charging. If so a low battery warning is sent to the gateway service . If not it is determined whether an external button has been pressed . For example the manager button may have been pressed which indicates that the device is to transmit any time and attendance events currently on the device. If an external button such as the manager button has been pressed the device sets the send clock data state . The signal strength from the cellular modem is obtained .

With reference to the device determines if there is a sufficient signal to transmit . If so the Signal LED is set to slow blink . The Signal LED is set to slow blink in order to conserve power. However the device needs to notify the user that there is enough signal so that the time and attendance events can be transmitted. If there is insufficient signal the Signal LED is set to OFF .

SMS commands received from the gateway service are processed . To save power the device only processes the SMS commands when the cellular modem is brought out of sleep mode by the microcontroller. Typically they are not processed as soon as they are received in order to conserve power. The device then checks to see if the current month has changed . If the current month has changed the device will update its daylight saving time values and set the daylight saving time settings on the clock . This date is only obtained once a month while it is running to reduce power consumption. This can be the case as the data does not change very often. The default setting is to once a month and this is to primarily take into account that the user decides to turn on or off the daylight saving time feature.

The device determines if the battery voltage is super critical to the point where the cellular modem won t operate. If so the cellular chip and modem is shut down .

With reference to the device determines whether it is transmitting . If so the microcontroller is signaled that the loop is complete and the cellular modem is ready to sleep. The sleep mode and time are set . Typically an amount of time in which the embedded code should be idled for is relayed. The default is sixty seconds. This conserves a tremendous amount of power for the device as the cellular modem and embedded code is running for a minimal amount of time every sixty seconds meaning that the cellular modem is in a low power mode most of the time. The embedded code is blocked on the serial port waiting for the microcontroller to send it data and in turn this allows the cellular modem to go into a low power mode. When the microcontroller sends data of the serial connection the cellular modem will wake up and the embedded code will resume . Referring back to step of if the device is not transmitting the send clock data state is cleared . The device checks to see if it is time to send . By default the device will send data if there is any once every hour. If there is a failure to send then it will try once every five minutes for fifty minutes. This is part of the power management saving methods of the present invention. It will be appreciated that the pre established schedule can be changed for when the device will send. For example Monday through Friday at nine a.m. and six p.m. instead of every hour. Alternatively once every week or two such as at Friday at seven p.m. The send clock data state is then set and the number of records consisting of worker time and attendance data which are ready from the clock are obtained .

The device determines if the record count is different in other words are there any new worker time and attendance data records. If so the device may record GPS NMEA sentence or string with the records . The record count on the clock is checked to see if it is different since the last time the loop ran. This is done so that the device only collects GPS NMEA sentences when there have been new worker time and attendance events recorded by the clock. This allows the device to not store more GPS data than is needed or relevant. In turn this reduces how much the device needs to transmit to the server and in turn reduces power consumption during transmission. If there are new records the GPS NMEA sentence is obtained from the microcontroller and stored for transmission.

The device then determines if there are any new worker time and attendance event records which are ready . If not the Data LED is set to off . However if there are new records or the records are ready the Data LED is set to a slow blink . The device then determines if the transmission was successful . If not then the Alert LED is set to a slow blink to provide a visual indication to the user that there was a transmission problem. The device will then run through the routine described above to determine if there is AC power sufficient battery power and a sufficient signal. However if the send was successful the Alert LED is set to off .

With reference again to step of if the device is not transmitting the device queries as to whether the clock data state is set and the records are ready on the clock . If so the Data LED is set to a fast blink as a visual indicator to the user that the device is transmitting the worker time and attendance data records. The Alert LED is then set to off . The sending process is started before setting the modem in a sleep mode .

With reference now to the start sending employee time and attendance data records is usually begun in a separate thread or process which keeps the user interface responsive to changes in signal and power. The sending process is begun by setting the transmission state . The sleep timer is set to a predetermined period of time such as fifteen seconds to make the user interface more responsive to changes in the signal strength when it is finished transmitting. The device gets and compresses the data from the clock . The amount of data that is sent is kept to a minimum in order to conserve and save as much power as possible. This reduces how long the radio must be active and transmitting. The worker time and attendance data is then sent to the gateway . The device determines if the send was successful . IF so a Twitter message in the form of a Tweet is sent with the clock serial number and how many records were transmitted. The user or the owner of the device can thus receive periodic confirmation that the device is in operation even if the owner of the device is not at the jobsite and physically in front of the device so as to read the LED notifications. Such a short text message in the form of a Twitter Tweet can also be useful for the gateway service provider. The device then marks the data collected on the clock as transmitted . Typically the GPS NMEA sentences that have been transmitted are cleared. This is only done once the data has been confirmed that it has been sent to the remote computer server at the gateway . Once this is done or if the send was not successful the sleep timer is then set to the default . The transmitting state is cleared and the sending process is complete and terminates .

As the system leaves its sleep mode periodically according to the pre established scheduled it queries whether it is time to send and transmit new data according to step and proceeds through steps in order to determine if there are new time and attendance data records and to transmit such records.

With reference now to at the remote computer server gateway service side the remote computer server receives the data from the device . It is determined whether the device can be authenticated by checking the authentication of the device and validating it within the system. If not an authentication failure is returned. However if the device is authenticated the system separates out the metadata in the header worker time and attendance data events and GPS data . The metadata within the header can include status information of the device such as to whether the device is currently being powered by AC power the voltage of the battery etc. This information is used at the remote computer gateway service center to determine the functionality of the device and whether software or firmware updates are needed the owner and user of the device needs to be notified that the battery needs to be replaced or recharged or AC power supplied thereto etc. Typically this data is not forwarded on to the end user s computer but rather only the worker time and attendance data events and the GPS data.

The worker time and attendance data events are decompressed to create proper worker event records . For each raw event it is matched up to the closest NMEA sentence so that it contains the proper geo coordinate for that worker s time and attendance event data . The compiled data is then sent to the cloud API Application Programming Interface . This will allow the data to be viewed and processed by the end user customer . A return confirmation is then provided that this procedure has been successfully processed and the records stored and all of the geo coordinates and worker time and attendance data stored .

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the device and system of the present invention enables time and attendance data to be delivered to the collection point or user s main office automatically. It enables the user to be able to track worker time and attendance data and events at any location and get that data according to a pre established schedule which can be near real time. This enables the employer without ever leaving his or her office to obtain one hundred percent accurate payroll records periodically such as every hour. Verification and preparation of payroll can be made throughout the week instead of rushing at the end of the pay period. The system of the present invention enables the employer to know who is at what worksite at any given time. This enables the employer for example to know if a worker is about to reach overtime hours.

Although several embodiments have been described in detail for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited except as by the appended claims.

