---

title: Unified communications system and method
abstract: A unified communications system enables a user to simultaneously manage real time voice communication with background audio streams such as a music. In one embodiment, the system comprises a plurality of devices connected through a persistent voice over IP channel, where each device is playing background audio independently, and each device is operatively coupled to a microphone. When a connected user speaks, Voice Activity Detection results in the automatic adjustment of background audio on other connected devices, the adjustments based upon user-input settings on each device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462115&OS=09462115&RS=09462115
owner: 
number: 09462115
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140404
---
The present invention relates generally to telecommunications and more particularly to voice and audio communications.

Electronic voice service inefficiencies limit the amount people communicate. Some examples of these inefficiencies are 

Furthermore digital voice communications and music have conventionally been delivered on separate channels and through separate applications. Communications applications typically build in code that causes the music audio to be ducked to a fixed level for incoming calls and other events such as voice message playback and notifications for example. Ducking involves reducing the level of one audio signal by the presence of another such as lowering the volume of music during a call. Typically communications software mobile operating systems and other software applications including music services presume that ducking is desirable. The present applicant recognizes that ducking is not always desirable and that the user should be able to control both the presence and level of ducking according to his her preferences and to levels calculated based on background noise and other factors. The applicant further recognizes that selective ducking of certain frequencies may be desirable and that other audio mixing techniques may provide for a better user experience in a variety of use cases. It is therefore desirable to provide a system architecture and User Interface that is purpose designed for use cases where typical systems fail to provide the level of control and audio mixing functionality necessary for modes of communication in which voice is mixed with other audio signals in real time. A partial architecture exists through prior art that is particular to the gaming industry. It is desirable to leverage this architecture and to develop it further for many other use cases especially as related to the use of mobile devices and emerging hardware technologies.

Limitations in electronic communication can also have implications for productivity. When teams share a physical workroom their productivity is significantly higher due to increased collaboration and spontaneous communication. When teams are spread out spontaneous communication is decreased. When people have spontaneous thoughts or questions that should be shared they stop to consider whether the thought is important enough for a phone call. Often spontaneous thoughts are potentially important and immediate communication could help to save time and errors but this is non obvious to the person contemplating the call. In addition there is a risk that the recipients will not be there to answer the call. In this case a follow up call is often delayed and forgotten as the caller resumes other work. It is therefore desirable to provide a communications system that encourages spontaneous communication and provides automated tools to alert and connect parties as they become available without interrupting them. An embodiment of this system designed for team collaboration would likely increase productivity significantly.

In general a novel technology is desirable to provide a new communications paradigm for interacting with others and for integrating the delivery of voice with music and other audio.

The invention encourages spontaneous communication by combining a number of features into a single unified communications application aimed at addressing common problems created by traditional communication methods. Several embodiments of the present invention contain a design and architecture that encourages persistent voice connections that can run silently in the background with minimal data consumption during silence with the ability to activate almost instantaneously through speech detection. The platform includes advanced audio management capabilities that allow users to collaborate without interrupting audio from other applications music videos and communication channels. Several embodiments also contain a virtual workroom and other flexible interface features that encourage friends and co workers to stay connected all the time. This document will make reference to persistent voice connections which refer to voice communication channels that persist over time. This is analogous to persistent text based chat but is made feasible for voice channels through the use of modern silence suppression technology. The present invention leverages this technology and other technologies through novel combinations of existing hardware and software as well as innovative new features UI designs methods and techniques to solve common communication problems.

The six problems of the prior art are solved by one or more embodiments of the present invention as follows 

Some of the embodiments of the invention provide a headphones optimized communications application that allows a user to manage simultaneous voice and audio streams. This means the user can listen to music play games or watch movies while talking to others on a phone tablet or computer. These embodiments will include the use of silence suppression technology to minimize data consumption during silence allowing users to stay connected for hours while working playing running cleaning the house or doing just about anything else.

The embodiments of the invention combine a number of features into a single unified communications application aimed at addressing common problems in existing electronic communications networks. In some cases individual novel features solve the problems by themselves. In others it is a non obvious combination of features in a single system that provides value to the end user through ease of use and or other synergies. Below many of these problems are described as well as how they are addressed by this novel technology. Some problems are particular to use cases in the commercial and enterprise domains.

Generally speaking consumer and enterprise use cases require similar embodiments of this technology while commercial use cases require adaptations including purpose built features to solve problems that are particular to individual commercial use cases. For this reason commercial adaptations of the technology have been described in a dedicated section under Detailed Description of Embodiments.

The invention may be implemented using the system architecture shown in . As shown by way of example in a system will normally include a first communication device Device a second communication device Device optionally other communication devices and applications for executing a set of instructions on the devices. The instructions generally come from 3 sources audio inputs voice inputs and control inputs as described further in Detailed Description of Embodiments. In most embodiments an audio output is necessary and in a number of embodiments other inputs and outputs are possible. In some exemplary embodiments 

Accordingly one aspect of the present invention is a system comprising a first set of headphones worn by a first user and a first mobile device connected to the first set of headphones and executing an integrated conversation and music management application for selectively listening to music and conversing with a second user. The system further comprises a second set of headphones worn by the second user and a second mobile device connected to the second set of headphones and executing an integrated conversation and music management application for listening to music and for conversing with the first user. Headphones or a headset for the purposes of this specification includes a microphone mounted to the headphones or headset although it will be appreciated that the headphones or headset may operate with a separate or standalone microphone.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method comprising steps acts or operations of connecting a first mobile device to a first set of headphones worn by a first user executing an integrated conversation and music management application on the first mobile device for selectively listening to music and conversing with a second user connecting a second mobile device to a second set of headphones worn by the second user and executing an integrated conversation and music management application on the second mobile device for listening to music and for conversing with the first user.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a mobile device comprising a memory for storing an integrated conversation and music management application selectively listening to music and conversing with one of a plurality of other users. The mobile device further includes a processor operatively coupled to the memory for executing the integrated conversation and music management application to cause a displays screen to display a management screen for managing music and conversations with the other users.

Yet a further aspect of the present invention is a computer readable medium comprising instructions in code which are stored in a memory of a mobile device and executable by a processor of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to execute an integrated conversation and music management application for selectively listening to music and conversing with one of a plurality of other users and to cause the mobile device to display a management screen for managing music or other audio content such as TV news etc. and conversations with the other users.

Yet a further aspect of the present invention is a method of downloading an application to a mobile device the method comprising determining a current location of the mobile device detecting that the current location of the mobile device matches a location of a bar and downloading a bar specific application to the mobile device the application containing a bar map and an interface for buying drinks for other users.

Yet a further aspect of the present invention is a method of interacting with mobile device users in a bar the method comprising sending a game request to another mobile device user receiving a game request acceptance from the other mobile device user wherein the game promotes interactions between users by requiring that one user communicate with another user in order to play the game.

Another aspect of the present invention is a computer readable medium comprising instructions in code which are stored in a memory of a mobile device and executable by a processor of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to execute an integrated conversation and music management application for selectively listening to music and conversing with one of a plurality of other users and to cause the mobile device to display a management screen for managing music or other audio content and conversations with the other users.

Another aspect of the present invention provides an ability to handle calls and or incoming voice messages according to specific settings assigned to a friend caller . This provides a system for friend specific permissions that enables sound signals to be handled according to the user s preferences. For example a broadcast message can go either directly to the ear i.e. speaker or earphone or to an inbox depending on who sends it and depending on the user s availability status. Duplex calls can also be initiated without the need to accept first but this permission can be specific to certain friends.

The present invention also provides a novel mobile interface that presents on a single UI multiple user selectable modes of communication for each friend or contact. The UI optionally also presents the status of how outgoing messages will be handled by the receiving friend.

This invention may thus be used in digital voice communication e.g. VoIP calls between one device and another and especially between mobile devices. Music content may also be managed in response to user input to control the relative volume of the music as compared with the voice call.

Another aspect of the present invention is a computer readable medium comprising instructions in code which are stored in a memory of a mobile device and executable by a processor of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to display a first user interface element for controlling a volume of music display a second user interface element for controlling a volume of a voice communication in response to user input received via the first user interface element adjust the volume of the music and in response to user input received via the second user interface element adjust the volume of the voice communication.

Another aspect of the present invention is a computer readable medium comprising instructions in code which are stored in a memory of a mobile device and executable by a processor of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to display a user interface element that adjusts a relative volume of music compared to a volume of a voice communication and in response to user input received via the user interface element adjust the relative volume of the music and voice communication.

Another aspect of the present invention is a computer readable medium comprising instructions in code which are stored in a memory of a mobile device and executable by a processor of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to establish a persistent communication connection with another communication device activate silence suppression in order to substantially reduce an average bit rate during silence by more than 90 present a user interface element to mute or unmute a voice signal for the persistent communication and receive user input via the user interface element to mute or unmute the voice signal for the persistent communication connection.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of establishing a communication link between a first headset and a second headset the method comprising detecting a proximity of the first and second headsets and automatically establishing the communication link between the first and second headsets in response to detecting the proximity of the first and second headsets.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of establishing a communication link between a first headset and a second headset the method comprising determining a first line of sight using a position determining subsystem and a gyro in the first headset determining a second line of sight using a position determining subsystem and a gyro in the second headset automatically establishing the communication link between the first and second headsets in response to detecting that the first and second line of sights point toward each other for more than a preset amount of time.

Another aspect of the invention is a computer readable medium comprising instructions in code which are stored in a memory of a mobile device and executable by a processor of the mobile device to cause the mobile device to display a visual layout providing user interface elements enabling users to add arrange and delete groups of friends and communications channels from the visual layout wherein the visual layout presents different types of communications channels including persistent dynamic and proximal.

Another aspect of the invention is a system comprising a first set of headphones worn by a first user wherein the first set of headphones comprises either an FM receiver or a Wi Fi receiver for receiving broadcast music a second set of headphones worn by a second user wherein the second set of headphones comprises either an FM receiver or a Wi Fi receiver for receiving broadcast music communications hardware enabling duplex voice communication through the headphones and a music transmitter to broadcast the music to the headphones.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of interacting with mobile device users in a public establishment the method comprising determining that the mobile device users are located at the public establishment sending a game request to another mobile device user receiving a game request acceptance from the other mobile device user wherein the game promotes interactions between users by requiring that one user communicate by either text or voice with another user in order to play the game.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of interacting with mobile device users connected to a private network the method comprising determining that the mobile device users are connected to private network sending a game request to another mobile device user receiving a game request acceptance from the other mobile device user wherein the game promotes interactions between users by requiring that one user communicate by either text or voice with another user in order to play the game.

The summary is intended to present only the most significant inventive aspects that are now apparent to the inventor and is not intended to be an exhaustive or limiting recitation of all inventive aspects. Other inventive aspects of the disclosure may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Various embodiments of these aspects of the invention are described below with reference to the drawings. These various embodiments may be implemented as part of different system architectures. It will also be appreciated that the voice and data connections shown in these embodiments may be wired or wireless.

Other embodiments variants features uses and modes of operation are further described below. Whereas the detailed embodiments described above are particular to the reference illustrations the embodiments variants features uses and modes of operation described below are organized into functional and use case specific categories to better illustrate that they can be utilized in different combinations and architectures depending on the purpose for using them. For clarity reference may be made to illustrations but these illustrations will represent only a single embodiment of the particular variant feature or mode being described.

Push To Talk PTT mode See . Similar to a walkie talkie using PTT sends one way voice messages. It can actually take on two sub modes live push to talk and saved voice clip . For example pushing and holding can record a voice clip while tapping can initiate live push to talk . During live push to talk one of two things can happen depending on the friend s settings 1 the communication will be sent directly to the friend s headset or speakers 2 the message will automatically record as a voice clip and go to an inbox. Users can change settings to be different for each friend to allow direct or indirect access. The PTT indicators alert the sending party whether the message will be received directly or go to an inbox. PTT is an existing technology and there are several methods of establishing connections between parties. To minimize latency in direct PTT mode a two way connection could be left running and muting can be used to give an illusion of walkie talkie mode. When all microphones are muted the line is silent and a minimal number of packets are exchanged to keep the connection alive. PTT mode could further comprise a Response Mode in which the application is able to determine when a user wishes to respond directly to an incoming voice message. For example Response Mode would be activated when a Live Push To Talk message is received and the user has made a voice response within a prescribed time frame i.e. Voice Activity Detection would listen for a voice response for 3 seconds 5 seconds or a user specified time . Response Mode could then be used to automatically initiate a duplex channel. Response mode could be activated intentionally through a specific command as understood through Speech Recognition. Alternatively it could be activated automatically such that the user s first spoken words would be delivered to the recipient. In the event that a persistent connection was already established Response Mode would simply unmute the Duplex connection and there would be no need to store the response before sending to the recipient.

Duplex mode See . Duplex mode is simple 2 way communications where all parties can hear all other parties. This is ultimately equivalent to Skype or other traditional VoIP communications. It is convenient however to have this option immediately adjacent to the PTT button. This allows the calling party to use PTT to test the status of the recipient and switch to 2 way mode if appropriate. Too illustrate imagine the following dialogue Hey buddy you there . If the friend answers Yes they could immediately jump into a 2 way call. If there is no answer the sender would wait for a response and initiate 2 way mode at that time. Or alternatively the return message may be Yeah just give me 5 minutes then we can talk . In any case the adjacent pairing of PTT and Duplex helps to solve the problem of potentially interrupting the receiving party without limiting the conversation to a walkie talkie style dialogue. This mode works similarly with Groups as seen in

Monitor Mode listen to See . Monitor Mode is a form of one directional communication whereby a user monitors the voice of a friend assuming the friend s settings allow for it . One example would be listening to a group leader. The leader is monitored by the followers but the leader does not hear the conversations between the followers. This would be useful for use cases such as pub crawls city tours or group fitness instruction. Alternatively it may be used in an office environment where a manager is monitoring his employees or vice versa. This mode is essentially equivalent to wearing a headset with the microphone muted while monitoring a call or conference. The difference is that by basing the mode in software different channels can be monitored simultaneously and other channels can be active in two way mode. These channels would be activated through a purpose designed interface allowing the user to easily toggle between channels and modes See

Media Mode See and . Media mode refers to the application s ability to detect when music or other media is playing and to submit that information to the cloud. With this mode enabled users can share the media they are listening to with others make others aware of their status e.g. make people aware that they are listening to music with their headphones on and link their music to their status. For example certain playlists may be linked to certain statuses or moods and automatically played at certain times of day or during certain activities e.g. Playlist 1 for walking to work Playlist 2 for at the gym Playlist 3 for at work etc. . Statuses could be tied to the planning feature such that statuses and music are updated automatically based on recurring events that the user can set up using the planner. Media mode can also be used in conjunction with the Media Cancellation feature for more accurate noise cancellation see below .

Offline Mode See . Offline mode refers to the application s ability to function without an external Wi Fi or cellular network. A P2P connection such as Bluetooth Zigbee or equivalent may be used to enable communication at close range in remote areas without the use of external routers and other networking gear. The feature set would be reduced accordingly when operating in offline mode i.e. the UI would hide parts of the application that require an external connection .

Menu Bar As depicted by way of example in the menu bar segments the application into related categories for easier navigation and provides a quick link between the segments. The application is designed to be modular such that some segments or components of segments may come installed as part of the core application while others can be downloaded as plug ins. One version of the application has the following basic segments Assistant Connect Media Player Friends and Settings.

Shortcut Bar See . The shortcut bar is a customizable quick link menu bar. It can be hidden by choice. It contains buttons to activate commands that will be needed commonly or in short notice. Some examples of features that can be included are 

Connect Screen As depicted in the connect screen is designed to remove barriers to communication by providing multiple modes of communication and status availability indicators all in one place. One aspect is the inclusion of PTT mode and Duplex mode buttons on a single screen in line with friends names and various indicators. The indicators provide information relevant to the calling party helping to alert the caller as to whether now is an appropriate time to call the receiving party. The freeform status e.g. at work or writing my book provides as much insight as the receiving party would like to provide. When Media Mode is enabled the calling party can see whether the receiving party is listening to music and whether that music is playing or paused providing additional insight. The PTT Indicators and Duplex Indicators show whether the recipient can be reached directly See PTT mode and Duplex Mode . The Status lights show whether the user is presently online or offline. An additional indicator that could be used is a last active indicator displaying the number of minutes since each friend was last active. The design of this screen and the inclusion of all of these elements together solve Customer Problems 1 and 6.

Virtual Room See and . The Virtual Room is a graphical representation of communication groups. Buttons are provided to toggle group wide communications while individual user icons can be clicked in order to communicate individually. The user will be able to customize the layout and select groups and individuals to add to the room. The example shown in is called Executive MBA. Everybody can hear the moderator but the users can speak to one another without interrupting the remainder of the class. This would be useful for distance based learning where all participants log into the virtual room through the internet. Similar rooms would be useful for office work groups and other team based groups as well as groups of friends.

Planner See and . The planner is specifically designed to solve problems often encountered in electronic communications as described below 

Suggestions See . People often need help coming up with ideas for entertainment. There are existing event planning applications that provide suggestions and coupons to help people decide what to do but they do not provide for real time voice and video collaboration. Voice collaboration helps each person to stay hands free while they browse things to do and not having to type back and forth increases efficiency. The increased efficiency will help to foster increased collaboration during review of suggestions and coupons thereby increasing the effectiveness of each.

Live Streaming See . The suggestions feature will be leveraged to advertise live events to users allowing them to collaborate in new ways while consuming live audio and video feeds. For example a live music concert can be broadcast but instead of needing to watch alone or from a single laptop users would be able to stream it to their own devices and maintain voice video communications with one another. Users might choose to go hang out together at a park each wearing headphones and streaming from his or her own device communicating during the show.

Public Rooms See . A public chat room voice based chat will be made available in the communications platform in order to further unify modes of electronic communication. Most internet based chat rooms are text based. Public voice based chat rooms are not yet available outside of gaming applications.

Audio Store See . The purpose of the audio store is to include a targeted marketplace for users of the invention. Users are generally expected to be headphones users and or audiophiles. The audio store will provide a list of carefully selected hardware and software that is expected to be beneficial for users of the invention. Featured items will provide descriptions on how the item can be used with the invention helping to drive item sales and further engagement with the invention.

Voice Over Clip See . The voice over clip allows the user to transmit a clip including both voice and background audio in a single click. For example the user may be listening to a song and wish to record 10 second clip including a voice over to send to a friend. By hitting the record button the user would record simultaneously the background audio and voice signal coming through the microphone superimposing the two audio signals into a single recorded audio clip. There are currently no known applications with this functionality on the market.

Relative volume slider See . If we use a decibel scale to represent the relative volumes of music and voice then a 3 dB difference represents roughly a 50 difference while a 10 dB difference represents a 100 difference i.e. 10 dB louder twice as loud loosely speaking . For example assume that full scale or maximum loudness is represented by 0 dB. Testing will determine an appropriate or comfortable ratio of voice vs. background music for this purpose. In film editing 12 dBFS decibels below full scale for voice and 30 dBFS for background music is a common standard. Suppose it is determined that a default level of 12 dBFS and 22 dBFS is appropriate for live communication purposes and that these levels were set as the default. Then the two controls would function as follows 

 Auto Ducker In conjunction with Voice Activity Detection the auto duck feature would recognize when somebody is speaking and automatically duck the background audio music or otherwise . Whereas the relative volume slider is utilized to set a comfortable ratio of voice volume to background volume that is constant the auto duck feature would ultimately adjust this ratio automatically when voice is detected keeping the voice level constant and reducing the background audio according to a user adjustable value. When the voice signal was no longer detected background audio would resume to its previous level. The comfortable amount of fluctuation is a matter of personal preference. For some too much ducking may interrupt the music and be annoying. Others may find conversation difficult with too little ducking. For this reason the amount of ducking is provided as an option to the user See When voice detected in two way calls . For simplicity one embodiment of the auto ducking feature may be to override the relative volume slider completely such that the voice level automatically adjusts to the current level of background audio while the background audio ducks by a user set percentage or amount . Another embodiment may be to adapt the user interface so that the relative volume slider contains two controls one setting the level of background audio without voice detection and a level to which background audio ducks when voice is detected See Alternative Embodiment of Relative Volume Slider . In specific embodiment of the auto ducker selective ducking would be used. Selective ducking would generally determine a voice frequency range to be ducked based on the frequency range of incoming voice signals. This frequency range could be specific to the sending party s voice or it could be a range that covers most human speech. A combination of high pass and low pass filters would be applied to the music signal wherein the appropriate filters to be used could be based on presets a user specified range or determined from the voice signal that the ducking is intended to make more audible. Amplifying the voice signal within that range could potentially provide further conversation clarity. The low and high frequencies from the music would still be present during conversation. DJ s or other artists may also use the selective ducking mechanism for artistic purposes similar to using equalizer controls but in this case the selected frequencies would be modified automatically and in real time based on either Voice Activity Detection or the detection of another signal.

Adjustable Speech Recognition Setting. In some embodiments Speech Recognition will be used to better distinguish voice in the presence of noise thus increasing the likelihood of detecting a voice signal when desirable. In these embodiments the user would be able to train the application recognize his or her voice by reading a known passage. This would help to distinguish the user s voice from other background noise. The distinguished signal could be used to initiate ducking and to provide a set of further instructions for processing audio signals. For example one embodiment of the feature may include a pre recording phase wherein the user would speak a known phrase in a setting that includes background noise. The feature may thus compare the signal received through the microphone to the signal expected in a quiet environment as previously recorded in order to roughly calculate the background noise signal. This background noise signal could thus be cancelled more precisely. This signal could be presumed constant or it could be updated periodically to a changing environment. For example when the adjustable speech recognition setting is activated a delay could be used on PTT messages such that the first 1000 ms or another amount of time would record only background noise after which the user would be prompted to Speak Now . The subsequent recording period would record both the user s voice signal and the background noise but the background noise could be more accurately reduced given the noise signal s approximate form as determined during the initial delay. This feature could also be used in combination with duplex communications to enhance the accuracy of Voice Activity Detection. Improved accuracy would result in better voice signal quality and a higher probability of correct voice detection for the purpose of initiating the auto duck feature. Another possible refinement would be achieved in combination with selective ducking whereby only a certain frequency band would be ducked and that frequency band would be dependent on Speech Recognition rather than manual settings or other simplified means. Speech Recognition could also be used in conjunction with text messaging and voice command features. There have been many recent developments in Speech Recognition especially in digital signal processing techniques and in combination with specific hardware. The purpose of the Adjustable Speech Recognition Setting is to leverage existing digital signal processing methods and provisions with interface features specifically designed for PTT Duplex and other modes of communication described in the embodiments herein.

Media cancellation See . Traditional noise cancellation techniques depend on complicated digital signal processing in order to determine what is background noise and what is the desired signal. These techniques assume that the pattern of the noise is unknown and must be determined and distinguished from the desired signal. But in some cases the noise signal may be known. For example if the noise is music coming through speakers and leaking into a microphone the approximate noise signal can be predicted estimated from the music signal that is being fed to the speakers. The opposite signal could then be superimposed at the microphone in order to cancel it the time offset could be compensated for by a pre set delay or by comparing the predicted to the actual noise signal . To illustrate this concept imagine a smart phone is being used to play music through a car s speaker system via a Bluetooth connection or a cord . The phone is thus aware of the music signal being sent to the car s speakers. Now suppose that a Voice Over IP connection is also running simultaneously such that the person driving the car can be listening to music and talking to whoever is connected at the same time. The music playing out loud in the car could be cancelled at the microphone with great precision because the approximate noise signal is already known to the phone in advance. This methodology would enable voice communication simultaneously with background music or other media like movie game sounds even when loudspeakers are used. This feature could be enabled when media mode is on and headphones are not plugged in.

Individual Volume Control See . The Individual volume control can regulate the volume of each friend s microphone separately. It will normally be set to an intelligent default level but there are several purposes for including this functionality. Generally the application will be designed to auto regulate the volume of each user s voice such that each person sounds similar but in some cases volume regulation may not function as intended due to differences in hardware configuration surrounding noise and other variable conditions. A manual adjustment can correct these errors. Another way the individual volume control may be used is to establish different volume levels for each friend when multiple connections are running simultaneously. For example a group of four motorcycle riders may consist of two pairs of riders Rider A primarily wishes to speak with Rider B and Rider C primarily with Rider D. But all four would like to remain connected. Rider A and Rider B could set the volumes of Rider C and Rider D relatively lower than their own and vice versa. Riders C and D could still communicate with A and B assuming they are not mid conversation. But if all four riders were conversing simultaneously Riders A and B would hear mostly each other and likewise for Riders C and D. Proximity and distance attenuation could also be used to effect this volume control automatically See below .

General Settings See and . These settings allow users to set how incoming messages and call requests are handled for different communication modes and friends. For example 

Sound Settings See and . The application provides an option to reduce background audio according to user preferences depending on the event type. For certain external events it may be desirable to duck background audio such as during a call from an external phone line. Because external callers are not using the invention it may be desirable to treat the call in the traditional way where one party is always speaking and the connection is terminated when the discussion is finished. These types of discussions may deserve more full attention than the spontaneous conversations that are envisioned between users of the invention. Options are also provided for managing audio during events using this technology as preferences may vary among users. shows that additional audio management options will be available including the ability to make specific apps louder and quieter. The automatically detect and manage voice option is a feature envisioned for managing voice audio in external applications. For example a user may be playing music and turn on a You Tube instructional video but not be able to hear the voice over his music. Rather than having to manually adjust the You Tube and music volumes this feature would recognize the human voice in You Tube and amplify the voice signal to the same level as other VoIP signals for better clarity. This adjustment would make sense as long as the You Tube video was not a music video which could be detected by analyzing other background sounds from the video.

Privacy Settings shows that standard privacy settings are available in the application. Additional settings will be dependent on which plug in features are installed to the application e.g. more settings will be available for people who install nightclub plug ins .

Voice Navigation shows that voice navigation will be provided for in the application. It is intended that users will train the application to listen for their specific voice and for specific commands. This will permit reliable hands free operation which is especially important for use cases such as motorcycling and skiing for example. The user will be able to access a list of commands and attach his her voice print e.g. Connect Jim Initiate 2 way End Call . To help the application distinguish voice commands from conversation different methods can be used depending on the hardware available.

Voice Activity Detection Voice Activity Detection VAD is a known speech processing technique in which the absence or presence of human speech is detected. In the case of the present invention it is used both for initiating silence suppression and to assist in the detection of background noise in order to enhance call quality. Some embodiments of the invention will make use of an adjustable Voice Activity Detection threshold. This could be implemented by way of intentionally providing a delay at the beginning of a PTT message to measure background noise. For example when the VAD setting is activated a delay could be used on PTT messages such that the first 1000 ms or another amount of time would record only background noise after which the user would be prompted to Speak Now . This sample of background noise is thus used to set or change the VAD threshold. Alternatively the VAD threshold can be manually controlled via a user interface element such as a slider or numerical input. Likewise automated methods could be used in order to periodically sample the background noise through the periodic activation and recording of the microphone. The sampling rate could be determined by a user specified input or it could detect changes in environment through ancillary hardware such as GPS. The VAD threshold could thus be updated periodically independent of whether a user was actively involved in a voice conversation or otherwise actively using an application.

Silence suppression Silence suppression refers to the known process of not transmitting information over a communications network when a party to the conversation is not speaking thereby reducing bandwidth usage. It is a specific focus of the invention because the invention is designed to encourage users to stay connected for long periods of time while they are busy doing other things such as listening to music or watching a movie . This means that for much of the duration of a call users will be connected while nobody is speaking. Hence minimizing bandwidth usage is important especially when users are on a mobile network in which data consumption can be expensive. It is also an important feature that would enable a large number of users to stay connected in a business network for example without worrying about drawing too much bandwidth. Silence suppression can also be used to detect whether individuals are engaged in a real time conversation having implications for how voice signals ought to be handled. For example it may make sense to minimize latency during real time conversation but to introduce latency after a period of silence in order to provide room for additional processing e.g. listening for voice commands . To effectively utilize the embodiments envisioned herein silence suppression would normally need to reduce the average bit rate during silence by more than 75 and in many cases by more than 90 .

Spatial Audio Spatial audio refers the application s ability to detect the location of other parties or audio sources and to process the incoming signals from those sources differently depending on where they are. It would generally be used in conjunction with 3D sound and or distance attenuation to provide the user with a sense of where the sound is coming from though other embodiments of spatial audio are possible.

3D sound 3D sound refers to the practice of transmitting sounds from different virtual locations through the use of multiple speakers or headphones. For example voices coming from the right can be made louder in the right ear of the headphones and relatively even when the speaker is in front or behind. This can be changed in real time as the speaker or other sound source moves relative to the user. It is a known technology that is widely used in gaming but there are few real world applications of this technology at present. The technology helps to change this by enabling headphone based communications in flash mobs silent discos nightclubs tours running groups and many other use cases. Spatial sound and 3D audio could also be used with loudspeakers. For example people might run the application through their car speakers and communicate with other vehicles in close proximity with sounds relatively louder in the appropriate speakers depending on the location of other vehicles.

Distance Attenuation Distance attenuation refers to the ability of the application to adjust the volume or other facets of signal intensity of incoming audio signals based on the proximity of the source. For example if another user is nearby the sound of his or her voice would be louder. This could be used in conjunction with proximate channels. It could be further leveraged through use with special hardware. Accurate GPS or indoor positioning would provide the ability to make communication through headphones lifelike. Communication would be automatically established when two users are close reaching a comfortable level when they are very near one another while other conversations would be attenuated according to the relative distance of the speakers. This would be very useful in the context of gatherings in which headphones are used such as flash mobs and silent discos. Many more use cases open up as a result of enabling communication simultaneously with music including tours house parties and most other consumer enterprise and commercial use cases discussed below.

Consumer and Enterprise users could use the application through existing networks on any modern smart phone mobile device or computer. These networks would include Wi Fi 3G 4G and other networks while additional P2P networks such as Bluetooth and ZigBee could be used in Offline Mode. This simplicity and exclusive need of software generally distinguishes consumer and enterprise use cases described here from use cases requiring special hardware as would generally be the case for commercial applications described later .

Many people listen to headphones while working or studying. In some cases they may wish to be connected to others such as when they are working in a team. Maintaining a voice connection while working would allow team members to ask spontaneous questions of one another. Normally these types of spontaneous questions would only be asked when the team was working together at a table in a shared workroom. Spontaneous discussions may also occur when teams are working on the same floor of an office or in the same building but at a diminished rate. When teams are working in different offices normally the only recourse is a phone call. Voxer provides Push To Talk services to business to help address this problem but it still requires users to pick up their phone open the application and navigate to the correct page to connect using Walkie Talkie messages. In some instances teams may wish to work more closely with one another by maintaining voice connections for hours at a time. This would be particularly useful for people that already wear headphones as it is a minimal alteration to their existing behavior. They would simply work while listening to music and speak out to their team mates when they had something to discuss. This avoids the need to remove the headphones and visit the person or call them using a phone. This would work equally within an office or in different offices. Over time it is possible that people who do not listen to music at work would join their coworkers network by purchasing a wireless Bluetooth headset to stay connected as many professionals do already. In conjunction with noise cancelling native to the headsets Voice Activity Detection and Silence Suppression would be used to ensure that receiving parties do not hear ambient noise such as breathing typing or other background disturbances. The Virtual Room and Planner features would be particularly useful for team work use cases.

Group sports and activities are a great application of the technology. The following examples illustrate how the app might be used 

House parties could make great applications for this invention by reducing noise levels dramatically. Normally people need to talk over the music and the music itself has deep base sounds which travel far and annoy neighbors. Another benefit of using the invention at a house party would be that people don t need to be in the same room to communicate. Friends could form groups and switch to different circles of conversation without moving e.g. not leaving the living room to drop in on a conversation that s going on in the kitchen. This concept could extend all the way to an intercontinental party . Because the invention can also function over the internet friends on one side of the world could be listening to music and partying with friends in another part of the world. This concept also scales down to the individual level. For example three friends in different cities may choose to connect and drink beer at home while remaining connected and listening to music from home.

Bluetooth enabled helmets and accessories allow for communication among several riders typically 3 to 4 but the connection is permanently coupled. The invention would allow users to connect and disconnect parties on the fly meaning they don t always need to listen to all party members. Individual volume control would also help in this respect. The voice command features would add significant value by enabling hands free operation of the invention allowing riders to keep their hands and eyes where they belong. Furthermore the invention would extend connectivity beyond Bluetooth range because the riders phones would often be connected to 3G or 4G networks. Bluetooth could be used to connect the earpiece to the phone while the phone would control and send communications to the other riders limited only by network connectivity. During a loss of network connectivity the user could be prompted to reconnect using Bluetooth or another P2P connection or a connection could be established automatically.

This would be a similar application to use with motorcycle groups. Sometimes friends do multi car road trips but can t communicate effectively across cars. People could wear headsets or phones could be connected to the car s speakers through a two way audio cable Bluetooth or another method. Eventually this invention could be integrated directly with automobile hardware to appear as an application available in the car s dashboard. The Media Cancellation feature would be particularly useful while driving when music is playing. Beyond multi car road trips the technology could be used to help drivers communicate with one another. For example truck drivers may use it to communicate with other nearby users in order to help them stay awake. Alternatively some users may recognize when there are other users of the invention driving nearby and request to establish communication between the cars for enjoyment. A particular embodiment may include a feature for drivers who are tired and wish to communicate with others to stay awake. At any given time many highway drivers are tired and the feature may help to connect these drivers improving both the safety and enjoyment of driving. Drivers might optionally use this feature to discover and share new music with other drivers.

Emerging trends in wearable technology will open up additional opportunities. For example Google Glass smart watches and other wearable technologies often including instrumentation such as gyroscopes accelerometers magnetometers compass light sensors proximity sensors bone conduction audio transducers near field communication and other hardware common in mobile devices. For example 

People often get together at parks and other public spaces and play music through a boom box. The experience remains social because they can converse over top of the music. There are plenty of public spaces in which people might like to listen to music without disturbing others or where music would be banned entirely. But listening to headphones would destroy the social experience by making communication cumbersome. The present invention would get around this problem enabling people to hang out in pools parks at beaches and other public spaces listening to music and conversing without disturbing others.

Adolescents and teens often enjoy sharing music and are avid headphones users. They could use this invention while walking to school at recess on lunch break or otherwise hanging out . Music sharing features and the ability to listen to the same music simultaneously would augment this use case.

In New York there are pub crawls in which people wear wireless headphones and a tour leader transmits music to the headphones via FM signal. This is an adaptation of the silent disco concept which is further described below under Commercial Adaptations of the Invention. These pub crawls can be further improved by enabling communication without the need for the participants to remove their headphones. City tours and other types of group tours can leverage this invention for the same purpose. Adding a layer of music without stifling communication would add an extra element of fun to many types of tour.

Media could be enjoyed together through televisions computers mobile devices or other devices. For example family members in different cities may set a time to get together and watch a television show. They would connect the television show as well as a persistent group voice connection such that anybody could speak during the television show as people often do in person. The media cancellation would be particularly useful so that the sound from the television show coming through loudspeakers could be cancelled before disturbing the other parties. It is envisioned that this would be achieved through an integrated application that controls both the media delivery television show and the voice connections. It is possible however that the audio output from the television or other device could be routed through a separate device controlling the VoIP and Media Cancellation. It is likely that in the latter case a greater latency would be introduced to the voice communication as the audio signal to be cancelled the TV show sounds could not be predicted and processed ahead of time. In cases of increased integration with the media delivery the delivery of video and audio could both be delayed intentionally by the same amount providing a time buffer for Media Cancellation processing.

Commercial adaptations of the invention generally require specialized hardware and software features in addition to the core features of the application discussed above. For example at venues with many people reliable communications would be dependent on reliable networks with sufficient bandwidth and powerful access points. Indoor spaces might require indoor positioning systems IPS . Public events would likely require handheld devices and headsets to be available for loan when their own devices are insufficient. For these reasons commercial adaptations are considered separately from the embodiments discussed above which rely only on commonly available networks and hardware. Commercial adaptations will be further dependent on the use case in question. For illustrative purposes a silent disco style adaptation is assumed in examples given below and other potential adaptations are described subsequently. A description of silent disco and its relationship to the invention is given below followed by examples of adaptations that could be used for silent disco style use cases.

A silent disco is essentially a disco where people dance to music played through wireless headphones instead of loudspeakers. An FM transmitter broadcasts music to wireless headphones which often have 2 or 3 channels allowing for users to choose among different broadcasts. There are many companies running silent disco events around the world and ample background information is available on the internet. There have been numerous adaptations such as mobile clubbing silent gigs silent theatre and other silent events using headphones. The present invention seeks to enhance silent disco style events by supplementing them with communication enabled through the headsets in conjunction with the other audio sources.

At silent discos people cannot communicate without taking their headsets off. It is likely that this problem is a partial limitation to the success of silent disco in becoming a more mainstream establishment in nightclubs and bars around the world because one of the key reasons people go to bars and clubs is to socialize. Music is usually an important component of nightclubs and bars but often makes it difficult to communicate because of the need to speak over the music. A method for facilitating communication between people wearing headsets would likely help the silent disco concept to catch on and could help to popularize the concept of speaking while listening to music through headphones. In the context of bars and nightclubs communication could be improved in several distinctive ways through the use of an improved silent disco concept 

In the context of this invention the issue of ice breakers is primarily addressed through software features that are purpose built for bars nightclubs and other public venues in which the event host would like to foster increased communication between strangers. The theory is discussed below under Social Networking Bar Concept while the specific mobile application features are described later in this document.

The idea behind using social media in a bar is that it would make the process of self introduction more comfortable for many people. There are many people that are too shy to approach someone at a bar usually for fear of being rejected or because they don t have the time confidence to think of a good opening line or follow up. But put someone behind a computer screen and their confidence to say what s on their mind improves substantially as well as their ability to consider carefully what they are going to say. Many dating websites and online chat rooms have made use of these technological advantages but a poor job has been done of enabling their use in a public setting. Normally people are at home behind their computer screens when they have the confidence to talk to someone they have never met. Of course there are smart phone applications that have attempted to address this with location based social networking MeetMe FaysMe etc. but inevitably one finds that there are just not enough people in the same vicinity using the same mobile application to make it useful.

There needs to be a way of influencing people to use the same application to connect with others in their vicinity. The invention disclosed herein provides a solution to this problem. For this solution all devices in the bar would be connected by running the same application on their respective devices through which users could communicate. This would be achieved by 

Certain features of the application could be used outside of the bars as well. For example contacts met in the bar could automatically be saved to the user s contacts list or downloaded to a purpose built address book enabling contacts to be sorted using additional criteria such as what bar they met at date of meeting age interests special user notes about the conversations etc. . Certain games coupons points earned and other features would be made available outside of the bar while others would be exclusively available in the bar. Many of these games features would be targeted at helping people to break the ice .

There are many reasons that people do not physically meet following an online introduction but most of those reasons are removed by placing the two subjects into a public setting where they are in close proximity. A thought experiment can help to illustrate the idea Envision some men using a social media device to type a pickup line to a group of girls at a nearby table. Now envision the girls discussing a response. The following are a few of many possible responses for illustrative purposes 

In the case of response 3 the value is obvious assuming that the men would not have made such an approach without the help of social media. In responses 1 and 2 the rejection from afar easy and unrecognizable to others nearby so the guys would likely shrug it off and try again with another table perhaps many times per night. If they were to eventually be successful they would be interested in returning to the bar that afforded them the success. The value gained through the social media device is inversely proportional to the confidence of its user. Less confident users would derive the most value from ice breaker features. The value of social media in facilitating introductions would help along with other features of the invention to drive repeat business for establishments offering such services. This technology helps people meet each other improves communications and user experiences and ultimately stimulates demand for the bar.

This technology may be applied to any other public establishment or commercial establishment where users may wish to communicate with each other.

Some rudimentary social networking bar concepts have been attempted such the Inamo restaurant in London UK. However the Inamo application lacked any interactivity between users. The iBar in the Rio All Suite Hotel in Las Vegas implemented a bar specific flirt application. iBar s biggest problems were 

The commercial adaptation of this invention uses conventional single user technology no multiple touch because the UI will be controlled through individual mobile devices e.g. a smart phone or another smart device is used by each person . This provides another key improvement over i Bar mobility. Additional hardware and software features will further augment the social networking bar concept. The overlap with the unified communications system described earlier lies largely in the software architecture that will enable users to listen to music and converse at the same time though hardware adaptations are capable of achieving a similar function. Auxiliary features adapted for use in bars and nightclubs include games designed to encourage interaction with other patrons in the bar. If desired people that meet in bars could remain connected in the system s network after leaving the bar.

Commercial applications will in many cases need to supply the headphones. Traditional silent disco headphones have FM transmitters to receive the music broadcast signal. An adaptation that could be made for the present invention is adding a microphone for communications. The microphone could either communicate with a smartphone or it could communicate with special hardware built into the headset. For example if the headphones contain sensors for positioning GPS or Indoor Positioning for example onboard communications hardware could enable users to communicate directly with one another based on their proximity. This would bypass the need for a phone altogether. The mixing of the voice and music could be done directly in the headphones. Superimposing the two signals through software would not even be necessary. For example different leads could be soldered directly to the communications hardware and the headset speakers such that the headset speakers would be receiving two or more signals one from a cable connected to the FM transmitted audio and one from a sound card that receives the microphone signal s from other user s .

Smart devices containing the necessary software applications would in some cases be provided by the commercial establishment owner. For example a bar may loan smart phones smart watches or it may provide fixed display terminals that are attached to or embedded in the tables among other possibilities. Depending on the system chosen by the bar some software features may be incompatible. For example a smart watch screen may be too small to implement RFID based mapping of patrons within the bar whereas certain games may need large screens installed at the tables. In many cases these devices would need to be shock proof spill proof and otherwise purpose built for public use. Anti theft technology may also be required for certain commercial applications.

A local Wi Fi network is a likely embodiment of the technology in commercial establishments. Multiple access points would be required with power sufficient for the density of expected crowds. At a bar for example the local network would enable transmission of data between users smart phones and to the bar s ordering system and customer database as desired. The bar s POS terminal could function as a server which in combination with an appropriate router could organize and route the communications according to the software application s instructions. In other instances a purpose built server may be required for reliable communications. In cases where the bar owner only cares to enable headset communication without data intensive features requiring a powerful Wi Fi network P2P connections could be employed. These P2P connections could be based in the users own phones and a purpose built software application or they could be based in specialized headset hardware as described above.

The initiation of communication between users can occur in different ways. For example when smart devices are bumped together they could use a method similar to that originally employed by Bump Technologies subsequently purchased by Google assuming a license to do so. On the other hand RFID tags or another form of NFC could be used in lieu of the bump mechanism. For example bar patrons may be provided with RFID tags to stick onto their phones when entering. Each user would link the RFID tags to his or her device such that communications between devices could be initiated by RFID. Bluetooth Low Energy BLE could also be used as a means of initiating communication.

To reduce cost and complexity in some cases smart devices might be avoided altogether. For example RFID tags could be integrated into wristbands that have only basic on off functionality. Users could touch their wristbands together to initiate conversation via Bluetooth or another protocol and buttons could be used to stop communication. These wristbands would be used in conjunction with adapted headsets as described above. Multiple channels could be built in to allow several sources to communicate with the wristband simultaneously. For example 6 buttons might enable two channels preprogrammed by the bar and conversation ability with 4 friends simultaneously. As long as one channel is available bumping wristbands would initiate a conversation on the next available channel. Time division multiplexing could be used to enable simultaneous communication across multiple channels.

In cases where users were equipped with RFID tags either worn or integrated in their smart phones for example sensors could be placed around the bar to sense the position of the patrons. Their positions could be relayed to other smart devices via a mapping feature built into the mobile application software. Other forms of Indoor Positioning System are also possible.

Because the use of mobile smart devices and headphones is likely to consume a lot of energy battery life may pose problems to implementation. For this reason the commercial establishment could keep extra batteries on hand for popular smart phone models. It would need to install a charging station to recharge its own batteries and might choose to supply charging stations wired or wireless at tables for example. Eventually wireless charging may advance especially the range to the point where users could be continually charging their phones while in the establishment. Alternatively a super capacitor solution may enable charging in a matter of seconds eliminating this problem. External battery packs are another option in the meantime.

A device installed at a commercial establishment could recognize the presence of a new smart device. It could send a prompt to the device asking the user to download the application or a bar specific plugin for the application. This would make it easy for users to download the appropriate software ensuring that all users have access to the same platform and features. NFC such as RFID or signalling the device s microphone as has been done by Shopkick could be two enabling technologies.

Gyroscopes GPS Magnetometers and Accelerometers are other hardware adaptations that could be built into headsets or separate devices. These devices would enable the use of special software features especially as related to methods of establishing and controlling communications. For example this technology would enable users to look at each other from afar and have communications automatically establish after locking eyes for a user specified period such as 1 second for example. As described earlier proximity based communications and distance attenuation i.e. volume dependent on proximity are also enabled by these types of instrumentation. Users might also control communications in virtual rooms through a compass for example. To illustrate imagine the compass pointed in the direction of voice propagation. Turning one s phone in another direction would cause the compass to point in another direction in the virtual room meaning the sound could be focused on users located there. This has been done in gaming applications but there would be many real world applications when used in conjunction with the various embodiments of the present invention.

Specialized software adaptations may also be required in the form of plug ins or fully customized software applications. In general a similar interface design and software architecture would underlie commercial adaptations. Each commercial use case could require different customizations.

The Connect Screen can be modified for various methods of establishing communication. For example in public venues in which participants have not previously met connections can be established through a proximity based event such as bumping phones together or bringing phones very near one another. Different connection protocols can be used but the general idea would be that a new connection could be established easily and those new connections would show up on the Connect Screen. The users would then be able to establish and terminate voice conversations groups or to establish friendships and permissions that enable tying into the remaining functionality of the various embodiments of the present invention. In other cases the initiation of communication with strangers may be entirely proximity based and users would not first touch phones to exchange contact details. Instead after speaking for some time the users may decide to exchange details in order to enable future communication without being face to face. This might be the most natural way to connect in a bar as it is very similar to the current experience. In this case the connect screen might list nearby users in order of proximity while buttons next to each device ID or nickname could be used to request friendships . Different permissions could apply to these friendships as exemplified by combining concepts demonstrated in and

In a public setting a user profile page could be used to share data and serve as a menu page from which various user specific activities can be accessed. Each user would be required at a minimum to enter a name or nickname for identification purposes. Additional information can be provided and shared according to user preferences and can make use of different device features including the camera and other on board hardware. An option to synchronize to the user s Facebook profile or other social media platforms might integrated. Privacy settings and preferences could also be tailored to use cases at a bar or certain types of events that may take place at the venue in question. illustrates how some features may be used in the context of a bar or nightclub.

Gamification is a term that has been given to the adoption of strategies that attempt to use game thinking mechanics to engage users for other purposes especially in a marketing context. For example by making competitions available to patrons at a bar patrons can be encouraged interact with one another improving both the user experience and providing an opportunity for the bar to sell additional services. This concept is illustrated in . Many games that would otherwise not be feasible can be made to function in conjunction with some of the embodiments of the invention because of the dense user network created when all users are connected to the same communications network at a commercial or public venue. Some games may include 

A key feature of some bars games is that they can be mutually beneficial to the bar and the users by disguising intentions as for the game . That is the bar offers games to make the bar fun and to upsell its clientele while its clientele are encouraged to interact with one another with under the pretense created by the games.

According to Wikipedia augmented reality is is a live direct or indirect view of a physical real world environment whose elements are augmented by computer generated sensory input such as sound video graphics or GPS data . Features of this technology can be built into this application to augment user experience in a variety of ways. For instance a phone might be held up and the camera used to identify other nearby users. User identification could be used to 

Virtual reality could also be used in some embodiments of the present invention. In fact many of the embodiments for real world use cases can be replicated in a virtual reality space. For example silent discos and house parties could be replicated in a virtual space. Instead of speaking with someone who is physically nearby proximity based communications could be established virtually. A user may approach an avatar to converse and share music for instance. Alternatively a 3D virtual workroom might be created in which individuals are able to listen to their own music and to still collaborate with others. Even simple use cases such as running could be replicated in a virtual environment. For example a virtual reality headset might be worn while running on a treadmill and friends running at the same time would be able to converse while listening to their music. The virtual reality device would simply add a visual component perhaps a virtual world in which two runners on different continents could feel like they are running together or competing on the same course. Virtual reality devices may contain sufficient instrumentation to facilitate virtually any of the use cases and embodiments described in this document.

The audio settings interface could be modified to interact with specific channels available at a commercial establishment. For example customers could choose to listen to different music or television channels as a result of wearing their own headphones. This concept is illustrated in . They would still be in communication with their friends who could be listening to the same or different programming. The details button illustrates that additional details could be accessed for each source such as access to an equalizer and other sound settings like those illustrated earlier.

When users have borrowed a device from a commercial establishment and input or received information on the borrowed device they may wish to have access to this information after leaving the establishment. A cloud based upload feature could address this and could be a manual request or automatic as long as a user is signed in. Uploaded data may include contact details in the address book photos videos points earned or transactions among other things.

As discussed earlier some of the embodiments of the invention can be used to facilitate communications among drivers. Vehicle manufacturers and other product service providers often make API s available such that software developers can provide for functionality with specific onboard hardware. This technology can also provide its own set of APIs for interoperability with products from other hardware and software providers. The following are a few examples of potential adaptations for enhanced interoperability with motorized vehicles 

As described earlier a silent disco is essentially a disco where people dance to music played through wireless headphones instead of loudspeakers. There are many other types of events based on a similar concept including silent theatre silent disco pub crawls group fitness events and others. Any of these applications could be adapted and improved by enabling headset based communication in addition to the other audio sources that are already being transmitted to the headsets wirelessly. The audio from this communication could be mixed with or separate from other audio. Generally speaking music would still be transmitted via FM the receiver being either built into the headphones as now or through a purpose built accessory that can communicate with both a mobile phone and the headphones. Intelligent headsets could be used along with or in place of other hardware to enable functionality with the software features. For example intelligent headsets or other hardware combinations may include hardware and instrumentation such as gyroscopes magnetometers accelerometers and GPS.

The most fundamental change to existing silent disco style events will be the addition of communication. Whereas voice communication at silent disco events now requires users to remove their headsets utilizing the new technology would enable simultaneous communication through the headsets. Modes of establishing connections could be intentional as in the pushing of a button or a gesture or they could be automatic and based on sensing technology. For example a precise GPS signal or indoor positioning system could detect when two users are very close to one another and automatically establish communication between them so that being able to talk is proximity based as in real life without headphones . Alternatively gyro sensors could be used to detect when two users are looking at one another and establish communication then even from a distance. Manual communication controls would be available on software installed to the phones and combinations of manual and automated methods could be used to establish and control communications creating very unique experiences.

Games at silent disco events and nightclubs An important result of adapting silent disco technologies to include smart phones is that users could all be connected to a common network by default. For example if all users installed the novel software on their devices to control communications a dense network of users would be created. It would then be feasible for the system to include games and services that rely on dense networks of people. Some examples a game that encourages people at a bar to meet each other to receive a free drink a drink ordering and payment feature features that enable the crowd to vote on something like music drink specials or the winner of a competition . There are many more options each of them with the ability to make a unique experience and keep people coming back to a particular event or venue.

Location based musical experiences Location aware music is a new concept in which music can be streamed to a mobile device based on its location as determined by GPS. Examples are The National Mall and Listen to the Light by Bluebrain. Listen to the Light plays different music depending on where the user is enabling a musical interpretation of one s surroundings. Intelligent headsets can add another layer of interactivity because they can infer not only user location but what users are looking at. Adding communication would enable the design and creation of many unique location based musical experiences. The application of this concept is not limited to the outdoors indoor venues can utilize an indoor positioning system. Multiple layers of FM can be transmitted such that the musical experience can automatically change from one area or room to the next. In addition more FM signals can be utilized by removing the limitation imposed by the switch on a traditional silent disco headset and replacing it with software based selection on mobile phones.

Line of sight experiences Because intelligent headsets can be aware of when two people are looking at each other a layer of audio can be superimposed when they do. This might take the form of a game where people choose a sound to transmit to people that they look at. Alternatively it may be a sound layer that the DJ can impose on a selected audience by looking at it. A DJ might raise his hands and shine a light on a specific area of the crowd. Only the lit area of the crowd would receive the additional layer of music sound while the others would watch the light and anticipate it reaching them. These and similar experiences would keep people wanting to come back to see what s next. These types of use cases would not be limited to DJs. Any band could choose to produce a silent disco style event in which the lights could be used in combination with the headphones for very unique experiences with different forms of communication enabled throughout the entire show.

Tours Intelligent Headset a specific headset made by GN Store Nord has an app that enables a headset user to walk around a city look at a building and have the software recognize what it is and provide an informative narration. This technology by itself could be used to direct self guided tours. But group tours would be much more interesting by adding communication. Add a layer of music and the experience becomes that much more unique and enjoyable. Silent disco style pub crawls are already being run in locations around the world including New York City. Merging these concepts together again yields a huge variety of opportunity. Imagine a city that speaks to the user and plays music according to where the user are and being able to share that experience by communicating with friends in real time whether or not they are a part of the group 

There are many more use case possibilities already known and likely many more that will be conceived over time.

Implementing a Silent Disco style embodiment of the invention in bars and nightclubs would offer a number of benefits to bar owners and patrons.

Booths could use RFID to transmit messages to conference attendees passing by. Conference attendees walking by would receive an invite from the booth to receive an audio stream and or an information file that would be stored and organized within the application. Upon accepting the invitation the conference attendee could change to an audio stream pertinent to the booth adjacent to him. Alternatively the attendee could listen to a speech or Q A session being presented elsewhere at the conference while he continued to browse booths or tend to his own.

Similar to existing audio guides patrons would receive audio streams pertinent to their current location in the museum. The use of a microphone would enable users to speak with friends both proximal and in other parts of the museum more conveniently without removing headset and more quietly amplification through microphone . Features could be built into the mobile application to allow users to read and download information related to each exhibit. The application could be designed to store and organize this information in conjunction with photos that the user takes.

Theatre goers could speak with their friends without disturbing others. Additionally new theatres could be constructed with minimal attention to soundproofing as the noise level would be lower and ambient noise would be cancelled through the headphones leaving the audio experience of the user unaffected. Furthermore different audio signals could be sent to different users in different languages for example.

Dispatch applications include public safety and emergency response transportation dispatch taxi transport train other freight public utility and military. Dispatch operations often require that several communication channels be monitored and that field operators can be quickly reached by the dispatchers. Likewise field operators may be operating different channels simultaneously and desire flexibility with different communications modes and more flexibility with audio settings. Several aspects and features of the various embodiments of this invention can be leveraged for these purposes and can be adapted for interoperability with existing hardware and software that is already used by dispatch operators and field personnel.

Ear protection is often worn by construction workers and others involved in noisy operations. This ear protection could be purpose designed to include headphone speakers and microphones for communications. In conjunction with a suitable network infrastructure this would make persistent voice connections feasible thereby increasing collaboration and safety. Safety could be further improved through hands free operation of the communication system. Workers would not need to risk dropping tools to grab for a walkie talkie and they would not need to divert their attention from what they are doing in order to communicate.

Any of the methods disclosed herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Where implemented as software the method steps acts or operations may be programmed or coded as computer readable instructions and recorded electronically magnetically or optically on a fixed or non transitory computer readable medium computer readable memory machine readable memory or computer program product. In other words the computer readable memory or computer readable medium comprises instructions in code which when loaded into a memory and executed on a processor of a computing device cause the computing device to perform one or more of the foregoing method s .

A computer readable medium can be any means that contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium may be electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or any semiconductor system or device. For example computer executable code to perform the methods disclosed herein may be tangibly recorded on a computer readable medium including but not limited to a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD RAM ROM EPROM Flash Memory or any suitable memory card etc. The method may also be implemented in hardware. A hardware implementation might employ discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing logic functions on data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The present invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments examples implementations and configurations which are intended to be exemplary or illustrative only. Other variants modifications refinements and applications of this innovative technology will become readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art who have had the benefit of reading this disclosure. Such variants modifications refinements and applications fall within the ambit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the scope of the exclusive right sought by the Applicant for the present invention is intended to be limited solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

