---

title: Systems and methods for controlling email access
abstract: Embodiments of the disclosure relate to controlling access to email content. According to various embodiments as described herein, an email message may be accessed by a computing device to identify a uniform resource locator (URL) within the email message, wherein the URL corresponds to a resource residing in a protected location that is not accessible by a native browser application of the client device. The computing device may determine whether the client device is permitted to access the URL and request access to the resource via the secure browser application of the client device upon a determination that the client device is permitted to access the resource in accordance with the at least one resource rule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450921&OS=09450921&RS=09450921
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09450921
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141222
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 723 526 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLING EMAIL ACCESS filed on Dec. 21 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 826 432 issued Sep. 2 2014 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 706 499 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLING EMAIL ACCESS filed on Dec. 6 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 978 110 issued Mar. 10 2015. The patent applications identified above are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to data security and more particularly to systems and methods for controlling email access.

Controlling email access is critical to ensure that email resources may only be accessed by authorized parties in authorized manners. To date enterprises have utilized access credentials to control which if any parties may access email resources. This method may ensure that only authorized parties may access email resources. However this method fails to control how those email resources may be accessed by the proper recipients. This method further fails to modify the email resources to comply with enterprise security standards. As enterprises seek to protect sensitive information systems and methods for controlling email access are necessary to ensure that email resources may only be accessed by authorized parties in authorized manners.

Some or all of the above needs and or problems may be addressed by certain embodiments of the disclosure. Certain embodiments may include systems and methods for controlling access to networks. According to one embodiment of the disclosure a system is disclosed. The system can include at least one client device. The system can also include at least one email service. The system can further include at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions. The system can further include at least one processor configured to access at least one memory. The processor is configured to execute the computer executable instructions to perform a method including the steps of proxying at least one email resource in transit to the client device from the email service removing at least one uniform resource locator URL from the email resource and adding at least one modified URL to the email resource.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure a method is disclosed. The method can include identifying at least one email resource on at least one client device identifying at least one URL within the email resource removing the URL from the email resource and adding at least one modified URL to the email resource.

Further according to another embodiment of the disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium embodying a program executable in a computing device is disclosed the program comprising code that when executed by a computing device causes the computing device to perform a method comprising the steps of identifying at least one URL within at least one email resource removing the URL from the email resource and adding at least one modified URL to the email resource.

Other embodiments systems methods apparatus aspects and features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Illustrative embodiments of the disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the disclosure are shown. The disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. As noted above like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Illustrative embodiments of the disclosure are directed to among other things controlling access to email. As an overview access to email may be controlled by limiting access of proper recipients to specific email resources and by limiting the manner in which the proper recipients access the specific email resources. In certain embodiments the email resources may be modified to satisfy access restrictions.

The technical effects of certain embodiments of the disclosure may include preventing unauthorized access to email resources and eliminating costs associated with sensitive information loss. Moreover the technical effects of certain embodiments of the invention may include modifying email resources to satisfy access restrictions.

The client device may comprise for example a cellular telephone a smartphone and or personal digital assistant a tablet computer and or web pad a laptop computer a desktop computer a set top box a music player a game console and or another device with like capability. For purposes of convenience the client device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the client device is referred to in the singular it is understood that more than one client device may be employed in the arrangements as described herein.

The client device may include a wired network connectivity component not shown in for example an Ethernet network adapter a modem and or the like. The client device may further include a wireless network connectivity interface not shown in for example a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem a wireless radio transceiver and or the like. The client device may be operable to communicate via wired connection with the access control server with the aid of the wired network connectivity component. The client device may be further operable to communicate wirelessly with the access control server with the aid of the wireless network connectivity component.

The client device may comprise a memory for storing data and applications a processor for executing applications stored in memory a display upon which the processor may execute at least one user interface and a local interface such as a bus as will be described with respect to . The memory of the client device may comprise a data store . The data store of the client device may include a device profile . In one embodiment the device profile may represent hardware software and security attributes that describe the state of the client device . For instance the device profile may represent hardware specifications of the client device version and configuration information of various software programs and hardware components installed on the client device transport protocols enabled on the client device version and usage information of various other resources stored on the client device and or any other attributes associated with the state of the client device . In another embodiment the device profile may further include characteristics describing the state of the client device including indications of the location of the client device the current time associated with the client device a detection of at least one network beacon associated with at least one network by the client device and the signal strength of the network beacons received by the client device . In yet another embodiment the device profile may include data indicating a date of a last virus scan of the client device a date of a last access and or service by an Information Technology IT representative a date of a last access by an access control service and or any other data indicating a date of last maintenance of the client device .

Additionally the data store of the client device may include at least one user identifier . The user identifiers may uniquely identify the user of the client device . In one embodiment the user identifiers may include a username a password and or biometric data related to facial recognition retina recognition fingerprint recognition and the like. Similarly the data store of the client device may include at least one device identifier . The device identifiers may uniquely identify the client device . In one embodiment the device identifiers may be a unique hardware identifier such as a GUID Globally Unique Identifier UUID Universally Unique Identifier UDID Unique Device Identifier serial number IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity Wi Fi MAC Media Access Control address Bluetooth MAC address a CPU ID and or the like or any combination of two or more such hardware identifiers. In another embodiment the device identifier may be a unique software identifier such as a token or certificate based at least in part on the aforementioned unique hardware identifiers.

The client device may be configured to execute various applications. For example the client device may be configured to execute applications such as secure container applications web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications word processing applications and or other applications capable of receiving and or rendering email resources on a display associated with the client device . Any application capable of receiving and or rendering email resources on a display of the client device is generally referred to herein as a client side application . The client side application may be stored in the memory of the client device . In one embodiment the client side application may be a secure container application that may be authorized to receive and render email resources in accordance with at least one resource rule as described herein. The client side application may include a cryptographic key to decrypt email resources encrypted with a cryptographic key in order to prevent unauthorized access to the email resources . For instance the client side application may have a cryptographic key that may be capable of decrypting email resources transmitted in an encrypted format to the client device by an access control service executed by an access control server .

The client side application may be executed to transmit at least one request to access at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the client side application may transmit requests to an access control service . In some embodiments the requests may include a listing of specific email resources that the client device seeks to access. In other embodiments the requests may include an indication that the client device seeks access to email resources associated with the client device such as email resources addressed to the user of the client device . In any instance the requests may include data from the data store of the client device that may assist an access control service in determining whether the client device is authorized to access the email resources . In one embodiment the request may include the device profile associated with the client device . In another embodiment the request may include user identifiers associated with the client device . In yet another embodiment the request may include device identifiers associated with the client device .

The client side application may be further executed to receive an indication that the client device is authorized to access the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may receive an authorization indication from an access control service executed by an access control server . In some embodiments the authorization indication may specify which if any email resources that the client device is authorized to access and may specify the manner in which the client device may access such email resources . In one embodiment the authorization indication may specify that the client device is authorized to access the email resources while the client device is located within at least one authorized location. In another embodiment the authorization indication may specify that the client device is authorized to access the email resources while the current time associated with the client device is within at least one authorized window. In yet another embodiment the authorization indication may specify that the client device is authorized to access the email resources while the client device is communicatively connected to at least one network and or at least one network beacon associated with the network as described in application Ser. No. 13 656 046 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLING NETWORK ACCESS which is incorporated herein by reference in the entirety.

The client side application may be further executed to receive at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the client side application may receive email resources from an access control service executed by an access control server . In some embodiments the client side application may receive email resources from an enterprise email service such as Microsoft Exchange Lotus Notes Novell Groupwise Zimbra or the like. In other embodiments the client side application may receive email resources from a distribution service executed by a distribution server as described in application Ser. Nos. 13 396 356 and 13 623 627 both entitled CONTROLLING DISTRIBUTION OF RESOURCES ON A NETWORK which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In any instance the email resources may include various types of electronic data such as email messages and email attachments. In certain embodiments the email messages may include text and or formatting in email headers email sender fields email recipient fields email subject fields email bodies email signatures and or email footers. Additionally the email attachments may include settings type attachments applications type attachments and content type attachments. In one embodiment settings type attachments may include hardware settings software settings and or the like that configure the functionality provided by the client device . In another embodiment application type attachments may include book applications business applications catalogue applications education applications entertainment applications finance applications food and drink applications games applications health and fitness applications lifestyle applications medical applications music applications navigation applications news applications newsstand applications photo and video applications productivity applications reference applications social networking applications sports applications travel applications utility applications weather applications and or the like. In yet another embodiment content type attachments may include application content video content image content audio content text content word processor content presentation content spreadsheet content database content compressed folder content disk image content encrypted content backup content web content page layout content plug in content font content system content developer content data content and or the like.

The client side application may be similarly executed to receive at least one resource rule associated with the email resources . In certain embodiments the resource rules may regulate use of and or access to the email resources . In some embodiments the resource rules may include format rules content rules attachment rules and or access rules. In one embodiment the format type resource rules may specify at least one of required permitted and or prohibited formats of the email resources . For example a format type resource rule may specify that all email resources must be encrypted with AES 256 bit encryption. In another embodiment the content type resource rules may specify at least one of required permitted and or prohibited content of the email resources . For instance a content type resource rule may specify that any email resources containing the text confidential must be transmitted utilizing a secure transmission protocol such as the HTTPS SSL transmission protocol. In yet another embodiment the attachment type resource rules may specify at least one of required permitted and or prohibited attachments to the email resources . For example an attachment type resource rule may specify that attachments to the email resources must be stripped from the email resources . In a further embodiment the access type resource rules may specify at least one of required permitted and or prohibited access to the email resources . For instance an access type resource rule may specify that the email resources must be configured to be exclusively accessible via a secure container application such as the client side application . Furthermore the various types of resource rules may be combined to establish granular access rights. For example a combination of resource rules may specify required attachment format attachment content and attachment access.

In some embodiments the resource rules may be metadata and or other indications that describe the email resources . In particular the resources rules may specify categories sub categories to which the email resources belong that the email resources are considered favorites the ownership of the email resources the managing party of the email resources that the email resources are confidential that the email resources are password protected the historical version of the email resources at least one description of the email resources at least one comment regarding the email resources the size and format of the email resources the download priority associated with the email resources an expiration date associated with the email resources at least one effective date associated with the email resources and or the like.

In other embodiments the resource rules associated with the email resources may change based on the state of the client device . In certain embodiments the stringency of the resource rules may be increased reduced and or eliminated based on the state of the client device . In one embodiment the stringency of the resource rules may be increased reduced and or eliminated if the client device is located within the transmission range of certain network beacons and or certain networks associated with such network beacons. In another embodiment the stringency of the resource rules may be increased reduced and or eliminated if the client device is located within at least one location. In yet another embodiment the stringency of the resource rules may be increased reduced and or eliminated if the current time associated with the client device is within at least one time window. In a further embodiment the stringency of the resource rules may be increased reduced and or eliminated if the client device has previously satisfied the resource rules .

Additionally the client side application may be executed to determine whether the client device is authorized to access the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may determine whether the resource rules associated with the email resources are satisfied by the email resources . For instance the client side application may determine that the client device is authorized to access the email resources if the attachments to the email resources have been stripped from the email resources in accordance with the resource rules associated with the email resources which specify that the email resources may not have attachments. In some embodiments the client side application may determine whether the client device is authorized based at least in part on device profiles user identifiers or device identifiers .

The client side application may be further executed to modify the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may modify the email resources in response to a determination that the email resources do not satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In particular the client side application may modify the email resources so that the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In some embodiments the client side application may modify at least one portion of the email resources . In other embodiments the client side application may modify all portions of and or the entirety of the email resources .

In any instance the client side application may modify the email resources by formatting encoding configuring adding removing stripping moving replacing and or flagging portions of the email resources. In one embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by formatting the email resources into HyperText Markup Language HTML Rich Text Plain Text and or other formats. In another embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by encoding the email resources using Advanced Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES and or other encryption protocols. In yet another embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by configuring the email resources to be exclusively accessible via at least one secure container application such as the client side application . In a further embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by adding portions to and or removing portions from the email resources for instance by adding or removing an email signature.

Additionally in an exemplary embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by removing portions of the email resources and configuring the removed portions of the email resources to be exclusively accessible via a secure container application such as the client side application . For example the client side application may remove attachments from the email resources and may encrypt the removed attachments based at least in part on at least one cryptographic key accessible to the client side application . In another embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by performing at least one of decrypting the email resources re encrypting the email resources cryptographically signing email resources or re signing email resources . In yet another embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by moving certain portions of the email resources such as by moving a photograph from the body of the email resources to the attachments of the email resources . In a further embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by replacing certain portions of the email resources such as replacing misspelled text with the properly spelled text. In a further embodiment the client side application may modify the email resources by flagging the email resources as having been modified such as by attaching an indication to the email resources that provides information related to the modification of the email resources .

The client side application may be further executed to access at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the client side application may access the email resources received from an access control service and or another distribution service. In some embodiments the client side application may access the email resources on the client device in accordance with the resource rules . For example the client side application may determine that the email resources may not be accessed by the client device because the client device is not located within an authorized location specified by the resource rules associated with the email resources .

In any instance the client side application may access the email resources on the client device by storing installing activating rendering and or executing the email resources on the client device . In one embodiment the client side application may store the email resources on the client device by placing the email resources in the data store of the client device . In another embodiment the client side application may install the email resources on the client device by placing the email resources in the data store of the client device and by disabling and or removing any files that conflict with the email resources . In yet another embodiment the client side application may activate the email resources on the client device by placing the email resources in the data store of the client device by disabling and or removing any files that conflict with the email resources and by instructing the client device to conform its operations to the email resources . Additionally the client side application may call on other applications and or services accessible to the client device that are associated with the email resources .

In a further embodiment the client side application may render the email resources on the client device by presenting the email resources in a user interface executed on the display of the client device . In particular the client side application may render the email resources in a user interface by decompressing compressed files and presenting the uncompressed files mounting disk image files and presenting the mounted image files running executable files and presenting the executed files enabling a data search of the email resources and presenting the featured output in a user interface calling on another application on the client device to respond to data links contained within the email resources and or transmitting a part or the whole of the email resources to another application on the client device . The client side application may render a single email resource or a series of email resources in a comprehensive manner such as presenting image files in a slideshow style presentation and may further render an environment that displays an array of email resources in a single view such as a category based tree or outline format. Additionally in an exemplary embodiment the client side application may execute the email resources by placing the email resources in the data store of the client device by disabling and or removing any files that conflict with the email resources and by instructing the client device to perform the operations of the email resources .

In certain embodiments the client side application may be a secure container application that is configured to protect the email resources from unauthorized access. In some embodiments the client side application may be configured to protect email resources that have been received from an access control service . In one embodiment the client side application may be executed to enforce the resource rules and or other metadata associated with the email resources . For instance the client side application may prohibit cutting copying pasting transmitting emailing text messaging screen capturing and or otherwise manipulating the email resources while the email resources are accessed by the client side application . In another embodiment the client side application may prohibit other applications on the client device and or other services accessible to the client device from accessing the email resources . In particular the client side application may monitor the data stream between the network and the client device may block any access attempts by another application and or service may proxy the email resources and may present the proxied email resources in a user interface rendered by the client side application .

The access control server may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing access control capability. Alternatively a plurality of access control servers may be employed that are arranged for example in at least one server bank computer bank or other arrangement. For example a plurality of access control servers together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such access control servers may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographic locations. For purposes of convenience the access control server is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the access control server is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of access control servers may be employed in the arrangements as described herein.

The access control server may comprise a memory for storing data and applications and a processor for executing applications stored in memory as will be described with respect to . The memory of the access control server may comprise a data store . The data store may be representative of at least one data store. The data store may contain certain data that is accessible to the access control server . In particular the data store may contain at least one email resource and at least one resource rule associated with the email resources as described herein. The data in the data store may be associated with the operation of certain applications and or functionalities executed by the access control server . The data store may utilize strong encryption standards to protect the email resources from unauthorized access. For example the data store may utilize AES Advanced Encryption Standard or a similar strong encryption standard commonly utilized for server side data storage.

The access control server may execute certain applications and or functionalities such as the access control service as well as other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not disclosed in detail herein. The access control service may be executed to control email access. In particular the access control service may limit access to at least one email resource to at least one client device that is authorized to access the email resources . The access control service may be further executed to modify at least one email resource so that the email resources satisfy at least one resource rule associated with the email resources . The access control service may be further executed to distribute at least one email resource to at least one client device that is authorized to access the email resources .

The access control service may be executed to control access to at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the access control service may be executed to determine whether at least one client device is authorized to access the email resources . In some embodiments the client side application may determine whether the resource rules associated with the email resources are satisfied by the email resources . For instance the access control service may determine that a client device is authorized to access the email resources if the attachments to the email resources have been stripped from the email resources in accordance with the resource rules which specify that the email resources may not have attachments. In other embodiments the access control service may determine whether the client device is authorized based at least in part on at least one of the device profiles user identifiers or device identifiers .

The access control service may be further executed to modify the email resources to satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In certain embodiments the access control service may modify the email resources in response to a determination that the email resources do not satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In particular the access control service may modify the email resources so that the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In some embodiments the access control service may modify at least one portion of the email resources . In other embodiments the access control service may modify all portions of and or the entirety of the email resources .

In any instance the access control service may modify the email resources by formatting encoding configuring adding removing stripping moving replacing or flagging portions of the email resources . In one embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by formatting the email resources into HyperText Markup Language HTML Rich Text Plain Text and or other formats. In another embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by encoding the email resources using Advanced Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES and or other encryption protocols. In yet another embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by configuring the email resources to be exclusively accessible via at least one secure container application such as a client side application . In a further embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by adding portions to and or removing portions from the email resources for instance by adding or removing an email signature.

Additionally in an exemplary embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by removing portions from the email resources and configuring the removed portions of the email resources to be exclusively accessible via a secure container application such as the client side application . For example the access control service may remove attachments to the email resources from the email resources may encrypt the removed attachments based at least in part on at least one cryptographic key and may make the removed attachments and cryptographic keys accessible to the client side application . In another embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by performing at least one of decrypting the email resources re encrypting the email resources cryptographically signing email resources or re signing email resources . In yet another embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by moving certain portions of the email resources such as by moving a photograph from the body of the email resources to the attachments of the email resources . In a further embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by replacing certain portions of the email resources such as replacing misspelled text with the properly spelled text. In a further embodiment the access control service may modify the email resources by flagging the email resources as having been modified such as attaching an indication to the email resources that provides information related to the modification of the email resources .

The access control service may be further executed to transmit at least one email resource to at least one client device . In certain embodiments the access control service may transmit the email resources to the client devices responsive to a determination that the client devices are authorized to access the email resources . In some embodiments the access control service may transmit the email resources to the client devices responsive to modifying the email resources to satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In one embodiment the access control service may directly transmit the email resources to a client side application executed by the client devices . In another embodiment the access control service may make the email resources available for download by the client devices and may transmit the email resources to the client devices upon receiving requests to download the email resources from the client devices . In any instance the access control service may establish a communicative connection with the client devices by utilizing a secure transmission protocol such as HTTPS SSL before transmitting the email resources to the client devices .

Beginning with step the access control service may identify at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the access control service may identify at least one email resource associated with at least one client device . In one embodiment the email resources may be associated with the client devices if the email resources are addressed to the client devices and or the users of the client devices . For instance the email resources may be addressed to the client devices and or the users of the client devices if the identities of the client devices and or the users of the client devices are specified within the email headers email sender fields email CC fields email BCC fields email recipient fields email subject fields email bodies email signatures and or email footers of the email resources . In another embodiment the email resources may be associated with the client devices if the email resources are accessible to the client devices for instance via at least one user identifier at least one device identifier and or at least one device profile associated with the client devices . In yet another embodiment the email resources may be associated with the client devices according to a listing of associated email resources and client devices . In any instance the email resources may include email messages email attachments and or other electronic data as described herein.

Next in step the access control service may identify at least one resource rule . In certain embodiments the access control service may identify at least one resource rule associated with at least one email resource . In some embodiments a given resource rule may be associated with at least one email resource and similarly a given email resource may be associated with at least one resource rule . In one embodiment the resource rules may be associated with the email resources if the resource rules are embedded within the email headers email bodies email signatures and or email footers of the email resources . In particular the email resources may include embedded metadata and or other instructions that represent at least one resource rule . In another embodiment the resource rules may be associated with the email resources if the resource rules are affixed to the email resources such as attachments to the email resources . In yet another embodiment the resource rules may be associated with the email resources according to a listing of associated email resources and resource rules . In any instance the resource rules may regulate access to the email resources associated with the resource rules by the client devices associated with the email resources as described herein.

Then in step the access control service may determine whether the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In certain embodiments the access control service may determine that the client devices associated with the email resources are authorized to access the email resources if the email resources satisfy the associated resources rules . In any instance the access control service may determine whether the state of the email resources satisfies the requirements specified by the associated resource rules . In particular the access control service may determine whether the email headers email sender fields email CC fields email BCC fields email recipient fields email subject fields email bodies email signatures email footers and or email attachments of the email resources satisfy the associated resource rules as described herein.

If the access control service determines that the email resources do not satisfy the resource rules then the access control service may proceed to step and may modify the email resources . In certain embodiments the access control service may modify the email resources so that the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In some embodiments the access control service may modify at least one portion of the email resources . In other embodiments the access control service may modify all portions of and or the entirety of the email resources . In any instance the access control service may modify the email resources by formatting encoding configuring adding removing stripping moving replacing and or flagging portions of the email resources as described herein.

On the contrary if the access control service determines that the email resources satisfy the resource rules then the access control service may proceed to step and may authorize the client devices to access the email resources . In certain embodiments the access control service may authorize the client devices to access the email resources by transmitting the email resources to at least one client side application executed by the client devices . In some embodiments the access control service may authorize the client devices to access the email resources by notifying the client devices that the email resources may be downloaded from the access control service and may further transmit the email resources to the client devices upon a request . In any instance the access control service may authorize the client devices to access the email resources by providing the client devices with a means of accessing the email resources . In one embodiment the access control service may authorize the client devices to access at least one unmodified email resource . In another embodiment the access control service may authorize the client devices to access at least one email resource that has been modified by the access control service so that the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources .

Beginning with step the client side application may transmit at least one request to access at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the client side application may transmit requests to an access control service . In some embodiments the requests may include a listing of specific email resources that the client device seeks to access. In other embodiments the requests may include an indication that the client device seeks access to email resources associated with the client device such as email resources addressed to the user of the client device . In any instance the requests may include data from the data store of the client device such as device profiles user identifiers and device identifiers associated with the client device as described herein.

Next in step the client side application may receive at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the client side application may receive at least one email resource from an access control service executed by an access control server . In one embodiment the client side application may directly receive the email resources from the access control service . In another embodiment the client side application may receive at least one indication from the access control service that specifies that the email resources are available for download from the access control service . In such embodiment the client side application may request to download the email resources from the access control service in response to receiving an indication that the email resources are available for download from the access control service . In some embodiments the client side application may receive at least one email resource from an enterprise email service such as Microsoft Exchange Lotus Notes Novell GroupWise Zimbra and or other services capable of distributing email resources to client devices .

Then in step the client side application may identify at least one resource rule . In certain embodiments the client side application may identify at least one resource rule associated with at least one email resource . In some embodiments the resource rules may be associated with multiple email resources and the email resources may be associated with multiple resource rules as described herein. In one embodiment the resource rules may be associated with the email resources if the resource rules are embedded within the email headers email bodies email signatures and or email footers of the email resources . In particular the email resources may include embedded metadata and or other instructions that represent at least one resource rule . In another embodiment the resource rules may be associated with the email resources if the resource rules are affixed to the email resources such as attachments to the email resources . In yet another embodiment the resource rules may be associated with the email resources according to a listing of associated email resources and resource rules . In any instance the resource rules may regulate access to the email resources associated with the resource rules by the client devices associated with the email resources as described herein.

Next in step the client side application may determine whether the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may determine that the client device associated with the email resources is authorized to access the email resources if the email resources satisfy the associated resources rules . In any instance the client side application may determine whether the state of the email resources satisfies the requirements specified by the associated resource rules . In particular the client side application may determine whether the email headers email sender fields email CC fields email BCC fields email recipient fields email subject fields email bodies email signatures email footers and or email attachments of the email resources satisfy the associated resource rules as described herein.

If the client side application determines that the email resources do not satisfy the resource rules then the client side application may proceed to step and may modify the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may modify the email resources so that the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In some embodiments the client side application may modify at least one portion of the email resources . In other embodiments the access control service may modify portions of and or the entirety of the email resources . In any instance the client side application may modify the email resources by formatting encoding configuring adding removing stripping moving replacing and or flagging portions of the email resources as described herein.

On the contrary if the client side application determines that the email resources satisfy the resource rules then the client side application may proceed to step and may authorize the client device to access the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may authorize the client device to access the email resources by providing the client devices with a means of accessing the email resources . For example the client side application may enable storing installing activating rendering and or executing the email resources on the client device as described herein. In one embodiment the client side application may authorize the client device to access at least one unmodified email resource . In another embodiment the client side application may authorize the client device to access at least one email resource that has been modified by the access control service so that the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources . In yet another embodiment the client side application may authorize the client device to access at least one email resource that has been modified by the client side application so that the email resources satisfy the resource rules associated with the email resources .

The grouping view field may allow the administrator to select a group of client devices and or a group of users of client devices to manage. For example the administrator may manipulate the resource rules that apply to the Enterprise group of client devices by selecting the Enterprise grouping from the pull down provided by the grouping view field . The rules view field may allow the administrator to filter the resource rules to manage. For instance the administrator may filter the resource rules by either selecting the All Email Rules set of resource rules or the Active Email Rules set of resource rules from the options provided by the rules view field .

The add rules button may allow the administrator to add new resource rules to the collection of resource rules that apply to the Enterprise group of client devices . For example invoking the add rules button may instruct the access control service to provide another user interface in which the administrator may define at least one new resource rule as will be described in . The rules description fields may specify at least one characteristic that describe each of the resource rules . For instance the rules description fields may include indications of whether a rule is active a name of a rule a storage location of a rule a brief description of a rule an assignment of a rule an effective date and or expiration date of a rule and a last modified date of a rule . The action buttons may allow an administrator to take at least one action to a resource rule such as editing the resource rule and or adjusting the settings of a resource rule . The defined rules may include at least one resource rule that has been previously created by an administrator of the access control service such as the Encrypt Email Attachments rule and the Remove Email Attachments rule

The rule type field may include one or more types of resource rules that may be created through the user interface . For example an administrator of the access control service may select Exchange ActiveSync from the rules type field to create resource rules associated with email resources . The access credentials field may include at least one field that accepts input of at least one credential for access to at least one application and or service accessible to the client devices . For instance an administrator of the access control service may input the Domain Username Email Address Password and Payload Certificates associated with the client devices . The access rights field may include at least one access right that may be defined for the client devices which may control access by client devices to applications and or services. For example an administrator of the access control service may apply at least one access restriction including Prevent Moving Messages Prevent Use in 3rd Party Apps Disable recent contact sync Encrypt All Attachments and Remove All Attachments . As a further example an administrator of the access control service may apply at least one access restriction including Remove All URLs Encrypt All URLs Hash All URLs and Encrypt Hash All URLs not shown in . The action buttons may include at least one button that saves and or deletes the resource rules defined in the user interface . For example an administrator of the access control service may invoke the Save action button to store the resource rules associated with the email resources in the data store of the access control server .

The user interface may provide an access selection field to provide the user of the client device with at least one access application and or service that is capable of accessing the email resources in accordance with the associated resource rules . For example the access selection field may specify that a client side application with secure container and or secure browsing capabilities may be selected a client side application with native email and or browsing capabilities may not be selected and a printing function of the client device may not be selected. By selecting the client side application with secure container and or browsing capabilities from the access selection field the current client side application with native email capabilities may call on the client side application with secure container and or browser capabilities in order to access the email resources in accordance with the relevant resource rules .

In one embodiment responsive to the user of the client device selecting the Q3 2012 Revenue.pdf email resource from the accessible resource listing the client side application may provide the user with access to the email resource by unlocking the protected file. In particular the email resource may have been encrypted with a symmetric cryptographic key and or an asymmetric cryptographic key by an access control service according to at least one resource rule associated with the email resource as described herein. Consequently the client side application may decrypt the email resource to enable access to the email resource and may provide an access notification that specifies that the client side application is Unlocking the PROTECTED file and to Please Wait to access the email resource while the client side application unlocks the email resource .

In another embodiment responsive to the user of the client device selecting a URL entitled SECURE BROWSER www.google.com from the accessible resource listing not shown in the client side application may provide the user with access to the email resource within a secure browser application. In particular if the current client side application determines that it is not a secure browser application the client side application may prompt the user with an access notification that states that the current browser is not capable of launching the URL. Upon transmitting a notification to the user that the client side application is not fit to open the URL the client device may launch a client side application with secure container and or secure browsing capabilities.

In one embodiment the access control service may be configured to proxy email resources provided to the client devices by the email services . The access control service may for instance proxy all email resources transmitted between the email services and the client devices . More particularly the networked environment may be organized so that the access control service is positioned between the email services and client devices preventing the email services and client devices from communicating directly. Thus the access control service may proxy email resources in transit to the client devices from the email services . In another embodiment the access control service may be configured to provide a gateway for access to the email services . The access control service may for instance provide authorized client devices with access to the email services and deny unauthorized client devices from accessing the email services .

In any instance the access control service may be configured to determine whether the client devices are authorized to access the email resources . The access control service may for example receive at least one request to access the email services from the client devices . The access control service may determine whether the client devices associated with the requests are authorized to access the email services based on for instance at least one device profile at least one user identifier at least one device identifier associated with the client device which may be included in the requests . The access control service may provide the client devices with access to the email services in response to a determination that the client devices are authorized to access the email services . In one embodiment the access control service may establish a communicative connection between the email services and the client devices which may facilitate the transmission of email resources between the email services and the client devices . In another embodiment the access control service may establish a communicative connection between the access control service and the client devices which may facilitate the transmission of email resources associated with the email service between the access control service and the client devices .

Additionally the access control service may be configured to control access to the email resources by the client devices . The access control service may determine which email resources the client devices are authorized to access. The access control service may also modify the email resources before providing the client devices with access to the email resources . In one embodiment the access control service may remove and or strip at least one uniform resource locator URL from the email resources in accordance with at least one resource rule associated with the email resources . More specifically the resource rules may specify that URLs within the header body footer or any other portion of the email resources must be removed. In another embodiment the access control service may modify and or configure at least one URL to be exclusively accessible via at least one client side application on the client devices . For example the access control service may modify URLs that were configured to direct the client device to a location via a native browser application so that the URLs will direct the client device to the location via a certain secure browser application such as the client side application .

In yet another embodiment the access control service may modify at least one URL by encrypting the URLs based at least in part on at least one encryption key. The access control service may further for example pair the encrypted URLs with at least one decryption key capable of decrypting the URLs. It is to be understood that either symmetric or asymmetric encryption may be employed to encrypt the URLs by the access control service and that the access control service may provide the client devices with the appropriate decryption key based on the type of encryption used to encrypt the URLs. Accordingly if the access control service utilizes symmetric encryption then the access control service may pair the encrypted URLs with the key used to encrypt the URLs on the contrary if the access control service utilizes asymmetric encryption then the access control service may pair the encrypted URLs with a decryption key corresponding to the encryption key used to encrypt the URLs. In a further embodiment the access control service may modify at least one URL by hashing the URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic hash function. The access control service may further for example pair the hashed URLs with at least one cryptographic hash function that may confirm for the client devices that the URLs were modified by the access control service . In a further embodiment the access control service may modify at least one URL by creating both encrypted URLs based at least in part on at least one encryption key and hashed URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic hash function. The access control service may further for example pair the modified URLs with both at least one decryption key capable of decrypting the URLs and at least one cryptographic hash function capable of confirming for the client devices that the URLs were modified by the access control service . Finally the access control service may instruct at least one email service and or at least one client device to modify at least one URL within at least one email resource in the same manner described in the aforementioned embodiments.

Furthermore the access control service may be configured to provide the client devices with access to the email services and or the email resources associated with the email services . In one embodiment the access control service may be configured to transmit email resources to the client devices . For example the access control service may establish a secure communicative connection with the client devices such as HTTPS SSL through which the access control service may transmit the email resources associated with the email services to the client devices . In another embodiment the access control service may be configured to transmit instructions to the email services that specify that the email services should transmit the email resources to the client devices . In any instance the access control service may provide the client devices with access to email resources with modified URLs which may include URLs specific to a client side application encrypted URLs decryption keys specific to the encrypted URLs hashed URLs cryptographic hash algorithms specific to the hashed URLs and or the like.

Beginning with step an access control service may proxy at least one email resource in transit to at least one client device from at least one email service . In one embodiment the access control service may be configured to proxy all data transmitted between the email services and the client devices . For example the access control service may identify the email resources in transit to the client devices via the access control service and may prohibit the email resources from proceeding to the client devices as transmitted by the email services . In another embodiment the access control service may be configured to act as a gateway that controls access to the email services . For instance the access control service may transmit instructions to the email services that specify that email resources intended for the client devices must be transmitted to the client devices via the access control service .

Next in step the access control service may remove at least one URL from the email resources . In certain embodiments at least one resource rule may specify that all URLs within the email resources must be removed and or stripped from the email resources before the client devices are provided with access to the email resources . In one embodiment the access control service may be configured to copy the URLs from the email resources and then remove the URLs from the email resources . In another embodiment the access control service may be configured to store the URLs removed from the email resources . For instance the access control service may store the removed URLs in the data store of the access control server .

Then in step the access control service may add at least one modified URL to the email resources . In certain embodiments at least one resource rule may specify that the client devices may be provided with access to the email resources if the email resources only contain modified URLs. In some embodiments the resource rules may further specify a permitted and or required means of modification including the types of cryptographic keys and or cryptographic hash algorithms employed to modify the email resources . In one embodiment the access control service may modify the original URLs so that the modified URLs direct the client devices to a non native browser application such as the client side application . In another embodiment the access control service may encrypt the URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic key. In yet another embodiment the access control service may hash the URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic hash algorithm. In a further embodiment the access control service may encrypt the URLs and may additionally pair the encrypted URL with a hashed URL as described herein.

In certain embodiments the access control service may additionally authorize the client devices to access the email resources . In one embodiment the access control service may be configured to transmit at least one email resource to the client devices . For example the access control service may transmit the email resources with removed URLs to the client devices . In another embodiment the access control service may be configured to transmit the email resources with modified URLs to the client devices . For instance the access control service may transmit modified email resources that include URLs specific to a client side application encrypted URLs decryption keys specific to the encrypted URLs hashed URLs and or cryptographic hash algorithms specific to the hashed URLs to the client devices .

In certain embodiments the access control service may determine which email resources associated with the email services may be accessed by the client devices by configuring the email services and or at least one client side application on the client devices . In some embodiments the access control service may transmit at least one instruction to the email services and or client side applications that configure the functionality of the email services and or client side applications respectively. As an example the access control service may utilize an instruction protocol such as Microsoft PowerShell to transmit the instructions to an email service such as Microsoft Exchange. Additionally the access control service may utilize protocols specific to the client side applications and or client devices such as an application programming interface API to transmit the instructions to the client side applications and or client devices . In one embodiment the instructions may represent and or specify at least one resource rule that must be satisfied in order to provide the client devices with access to the email resources . The resource rules may for example specify that all URLs within the email resources must be removed from the email resources before the email resources may be provided to the client devices . More specifically the resource rules may specify that URLs within the header body footer or any other portion of the email resources must be removed. The resource rules may further specify that the removed URLs must be transmitted to the access control service rather than the client devices .

Additionally in certain embodiments the access control service may control the manner in which the client devices are authorized to access the email resources by configuring the email services and or client side applications on the client devices to modify the email resources before they are provided to the client devices . In some embodiments the access control service may transmit instructions to the email services and or client side applications on the client devices to modify at least one URL from at least one email resource . In one embodiment the access control service may modify the URLs according to at least one resource rule . The resource rules may for example specify that the URLs must be removed and or stripped from the email resources . The resource rules may further specify that the URLs must be modified to direct the client devices to at least one non native browser application encrypted with at least one cryptographic key and or hashed with at least one cryptographic hash algorithm. The resource rules may further specify that the modified URLs must be added to the email resources before the client devices are provided access to the email resources .

Furthermore in certain embodiments the access control service may provide the client devices with access to the email resources by transmitting instructions to the email services and or client side applications on the client devices that enable the client devices to access the email resources . In some embodiments the access control service may tailor the authorization instructions in accordance with at least one resource rule . For instance the resource rules may specify that the email resources may only be transmitted from the email services to the client devices over a secure connection such as over an HTTPS SSL connection. In one embodiment the access control service may transmit instructions that specify that the client devices may access the email resources with removed URLs. In another embodiment the access control service may transmit instructions that specify that the client devices may access removed and or modified URLs. In yet another embodiment the access control service may transmit at least one cryptographic key capable of decoding encrypted URLs and or at least one cryptographic hash algorithm capable of confirming that URLs were modified by the access control service to the client side applications on the client devices .

Beginning with step the client side application may identify at least one email resource that is associated with the client device . In certain embodiments the client side application may identify the email resources by receiving the email resources from an email service associated with the email resources . For example the client side application may receive the email resources from a Microsoft Exchange email service . In some embodiments the client side application may identify the email resources by receiving the email resources from an access control service executed by an access control server .

Next in step the client side application may identify at least one URL within the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may identify URLs within the header body footer and or other portions of the email resources . In some embodiments the client side application may identify URLs in the email resources according to at least one resource rule . For instance the resource rules may specify that URLs corresponding to a list of unauthorized and or blacklisted locations must be identified by the client side application . In any instance the client side application may identify URLs from within the header body footer and or other portions of the email resources .

Then in step the client side application may remove at least one URL from the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may remove URLs from within the header body footer and or other portions of the email resources . In some embodiments the client side application may remove the URLs identified in step in accordance with at least one resource rule . For instance the resource rules may specify that the client side application must remove URLs from the body of the email resources but need not remove the URLs from other portions of the email resources .

Next in step the client side application may add at least one modified URL to the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may modify the URLs removed from the email resources in step and subsequently add the modified URLs to the email resources thereby replacing the original URLs with modified URLs. In some embodiments the client side application may modify the URLs in accordance with at least one resource rule . In one embodiment the client side application may modify the original URLs so that the modified URLs direct the client devices to a non native browser application such as the client side application . In another embodiment the client side application may encrypt the URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic key. In yet another embodiment the client side application may hash the URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic hash algorithm. In a further embodiment the client side application may encrypt the URLs and may additionally pair the encrypted URL with a hashed URL as described herein.

Furthermore the client side application may authorize the client devices to access the email resources . In certain embodiments the client side application may provide the client device with access to the email resources that contain only modified URLs. In one embodiment the client side application may provide the client device with access to encrypted URLs by utilizing at least one decryption key to decrypt the modified URLs. In another embodiment the client side application may provide the client device with access to hashed URLs by utilizing at least one cryptographic hash algorithm to confirm that an access control service and or email service modified the URL. In any instance the client side application may provide the client device with access to the email resources by rendering at least one user interface on at least one display of the client device and presenting the email resources on the user interfaces .

Beginning with step the access control service and or client side application may identify at least one URL within at least one email resource . In certain embodiments the access control service and or client side application may identify the email resources by receiving the email resources from an email service associated with the email resources . For example the access control service and or client side application may receive the email resources from a Microsoft Exchange email service . In some embodiments the client side application may identify the email resources by receiving the email resources from the access control service . In other embodiments the access control service and or client side application may query the data store of the access control server and or the data store of the client device to determine whether the data stores hold email resources that contain URLs. In any instance the access control service and or client side application may identify URLs from within the header body footer and or other portions of the email resources .

Next in step the access control service and or client side application may remove at least one URL from the email resources . In certain embodiments the access control service and or client side application may remove URLs from within the header body footer and or other portions of the email resources . In some embodiments the access control service and or client side application may remove the URLs identified in step in accordance with at least one resource rule . For instance the resource rules may specify that the access control service and or client side application must remove URLs from the body of the email resources but need not remove the URLs from other portions of the email resources .

Then in step the access control service and or client side application may add at least one modified URL to the email resources . In certain embodiments the access control service and or client side application may modify the URLs removed from the email resources in step and subsequently add the modified URLs to the email resources thereby replacing the original URLs with modified URLs. In some embodiments the access control service and or client side application may modify the URLs in accordance with at least one resource rule . In one embodiment the access control service and or client side application may modify the original URLs so that the modified URLs direct the client devices to a non native browser application such as the client side application . In another embodiment the access control service and or client side application may encrypt the URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic key. In yet another embodiment the access control service and or client side application may hash the URLs based at least in part on at least one cryptographic hash algorithm. In a further embodiment the access control service and or client side application may encrypt the URLs and may additionally pair the encrypted URL with a hashed URL as described herein.

Furthermore the access control service and or client side application may authorize at least one client device to access the email resources . In certain embodiments the access control service and or client side application may provide the client devices with access to the email resources that contain only modified URLs. In one embodiment the access control service and or client side application may provide the client devices with access to encrypted URLs by utilizing at least one decryption key to decrypt the modified URLs. In another embodiment the access control service and or client side application may provide the client device with access to hashed URLs by utilizing at least one cryptographic hash algorithm to confirm that an access control service and or email service modified the URL. In any instance the access control service and or client side application may provide the client devices with access to the email resources by instructing the client devices to render and or by rendering at least one user interface on at least one display of the client device and presenting the email resources on the user interfaces .

The following is a general discussion of the components of the access control server and the client device . The local interface and may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated. Stored in the memories and are both data and several components that are executable by the processors and . In particular with regard to the access control server stored in the memories and executable by the processor are an access control service and potentially other applications. Additionally with regard to the client device stored in the memories and executable by the processor are a client side application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memories and may be data stores and and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memories and and executable by the processors and .

It is to be understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memories and and are executable by the processors and as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memories and and are executable by the processors and . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processors and . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memories and and run by the processors and source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memories and and executed by the processors and or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memories and to be executed by the processors and etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memories and including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memories and are defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memories and may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processors and may represent multiple processors and the memories and may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface and may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors and or between any two of the memories and etc. The local interface and may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processors and may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the access control service client side application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of at least one data signal an application specific integrated circuit that has appropriate logic gates or another component etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show certain functionality and operations performed by the access control service and client side application respectively. If embodied in software each box may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processors and in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more steps may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments at least one of the steps shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the access control service and the client side application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example processors and in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

