---

title: Spectrally-controlled backlighting for LCD displays
abstract: A display backlight assembly includes a light guide panel having first and second principal faces and at least one edge surface. A display screen is aligned with and substantially perpendicular to the first principal face of the light guide panel. The assembly also includes a light source with one or more white LEDs and one or more first color LEDs, where each first color LED emits a first color of light that is red, green, blue, or yellow. Each white LED and each first color LED is positioned to emit light into the light guide panel. A controller is electrically coupled to the light source and capable of independently setting an intensity value for each white LED and for each first color LED. The controller controls illumination of the LEDs independently as needed to provide backlighting with the selected intensity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09101001&OS=09101001&RS=09101001
owner: C-Marine Dynamics, Inc.
number: 09101001
owner_city: Hampton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
The present invention relates generally to electronic display equipment and more particularly to LED backlighting for LCD displays.

Liquid crystal displays LCDs use backlighting to affect the brightness contrast and other aspects of the viewing experience. A typical LCD panel has crystalline material suspended in a liquid medium between glass plates. An array of semiconductor switches in the LCD module applies electric fields to the crystalline material to align the crystalline material to either block light or permit light to pass through the display. The crystalline material thus acts as a shutter to control the light passing through the LCD. Because LCD displays produce no light of their own a light source positioned to illuminate the LCD panel provides back lighting by shining light through the display.

Referring to one type of traditional LCD backlight assembly has a cold cathode fluorescent tube lamp CCFTs placed along one side of a LCD panel . A light diffuser plate is positioned behind LCD panel and tapers in thickness from a first end near CCFT to a second end . A back surface of diffuser plate has a reflective coating . Light incident to reflective coating reflects into a polarizing film . Internal refraction causes light to be reflected and eventually transmitted towards LCD panel in a predetermined direction thereby transmitting polarizing light emitted from CCFT through LCD panel . Light diffuser plate and polarizing film evenly spread the light across the display. CCFT technology has been used extensively for many years. Compared to white LEDs most CCFTs have a more even white spectral output that provides a more complete color gamut for the display than LED backlighting. Compared to RGB LEDs CCFTs are deficient in red light wavelengths. However CCFTs are considered less energy efficient than LEDs and require an inverter to transform the low voltage used for the LCD usually 5 or 12 v to a high voltage needed to light a CCFT. The thickness of the inverter transformer often determines the minimum thickness of the LCD display.

In the interest of energy efficiency and in minimizing overall display thickness another method of backlighting uses a row of white LEDs placed along edges of the display to illuminate the LCD display. Similar to CCFT technology a diffuser evenly spreads the light across the display. LED backlighting of this type has been widely used in desktop computer monitors.

In yet another type of backlighting an array of white or RGB LEDs placed behind a diffuser positioned in back of the LCD panel illuminates the LCD display from behind. LCD displays with this backlight technology usually have the ability to dim the LEDs in the dark areas of the image being displayed effectively increasing the contrast ratio of the display. This type of LED array backlighting has been widely used in LCD televisions.

With array based LCD displays open areas exist between each liquid crystal or pixel making up the array. Light from white LED or CCFT backlighting bleeds or leaks around each LCD pixel causing a blooming effect due to unnecessary illumination around the fringes of LCD pixels. This blooming effect is sometimes referred to as inter pixel light leakage. 

In some applications such as when LCD displays are used with night vision instrumentation when the human eye has adapted to light levels of night vision equipment or when detecting an infrared signature it is necessary or desirable to turn off significantly attenuate or selectively tune broad spectrum back light. As one example it may be desirable to attenuate backlighting to an intensity level below what is achievable with CCFTs since CCFT turn off completely below a threshold energy level. As another example it may be desirable to tune backlighting to a specified wavelength or band s of wavelengths that does not interfere with other light sensitive equipment. When only white LEDs are used for backlighting tuning the backlight to one or more specific wavelengths or bands of wavelengths is not possible because the wavelength of light emitted is determined by the material of the LED. The actual LED color of a white LED begins from a high intensity blue LED at its base. To this base is added white phosphor similar to that used in fluorescent lights. The blue LED excites the phosphor causing it to emit yellow light. The combination of the blue and the yellow light produces white light. The ratio of yellow to blue and different phosphors determines the temperature or warmth of the light usually measured in degrees Kelvin 2700K or 4300K etc. Because the white light is made up of just two colors this means that some spectrums of color are not well represented in the output spectrum of the white LED light. The result is that these poorly represented colors look dull compared to other sources of light.

LCD panel backlighting has not addressed the unique demands of specialty viewing such as LCD displays used in night vision instrumentation equipment LCD displays configured for human eyes adapted to night vision equipment and limitations inherent with detection of an infrared signature.

A limitation of RGB LED backlighting is that these prior art designs are bulky. Further to produce the amount of light desired for daylight viewing they must be high powered therefore producing a lot of heat. This excessive heat has to be removed to prevent damage to the display or its components.

Therefore an apparatus and method of LCD backlighting is needed that allows specific back lighting spectra as desired in addition to the ability to select the desired intensity levels particularly when those levels are below what is attainable with CCFTs.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide LCD backlighting with the ability to control the color spectrum and intensity of backlight emitted into a light distribution panel.

It is another object of the present invention to meet demands of specialty viewing using LCD displays.

The present invention achieves these and other objectives by providing an LED backlight assembly that can be used to augment or replace traditional CCFT backlighting. RGB W Red Green Blue and White and RGBY W Red Green Blue Yellow and White backlighting provide benefits that CCFT technology does not address such as the ability to control the spectrum of the backlight emitted through LCD pixels for specialty viewing requirements. Night Vision Instrumentation Equipment NVIE compatibility allows the operator of a LCD screen to continue to use a LCD screen with night vision equipment without compromising the operation of the equipment from a blooming effect caused by incompatible LCD backlight emissions. Human Eye Night Vision Adaptability allows the operator of a LCD screen to maintain the night vision adaptation of his eyes when using an LCD screen in darkened conditions.

Spectral control over LCD backlight eliminates the effect of white light bleed through from LCD screens that utilize non spectrally controlled backlight such as CCFTs or white LEDs. This white light bleed through takes place between the pixels inter pixel light leakage of a LCD screen and cannot be eliminated by the use of the color palette of the pixel array of a LCD screen.

In one embodiment of the present invention a display backlight assembly includes a light guide panel having a first principal face a second principal face and at least one edge surface between the first principal face and the second principal face. A display screen is aligned with and substantially perpendicular to the first principal face of the light guide panel. The assembly also includes a light source with one or more white LEDs and one or more first color LEDs where each first color LED emits a first color of light that is red green blue or yellow. Each white LED and each first color LED is positioned to direct light into the light guide panel. A controller is electrically coupled to the light source and capable of independently setting an intensity value for each white LED and for each first color LED.

In another embodiment of the assembly the light source also includes at least one additional color LED that emits an additional color of light that is red green blue or yellow where each additional color of light is different from the first color of light and other additional colors of light. In another embodiment the display assembly includes two three or four colors of LEDs in addition to the white LED s . In one embodiment the assembly includes one more each of a white LED a red LED a green LED a blue LED and a yellow LED.

In one embodiment of the assembly the display backlight assembly has an average light intensity value of at least 400 nits as measured at the display screen. In another embodiment the average light intensity value is at least 1000 nits. In yet another embodiment the average light intensity value is at least 1100 nits.

In another embodiment of the assembly each white LED and each color LED is positioned to emit light into the edge surface of the light guide panel. In another embodiment each of white LED and each color LED is positioned to direct light into the second principal face of light guide panel. In another embodiment one or more of the LEDs is positioned to direct light into the second principal face of the light guide panel and one or more of the LEDs is positioned to direct light into the edge surface of the light guide panel.

In another embodiment of the assembly the controller is a dual range driver having a lower power range and a higher power range. The lower power range is adjustable according to a linear scale and the higher power range is adjustable according to a logarithmic scale. In another embodiment the controller is adjustable according to a linear scale with 65 536 steps across its full range of power.

In another embodiment of the assembly the display screen is an LCD display. In another embodiment of the assembly the display includes a touch screen panel or is a display screen where the assembly also includes a touch screen panel aligned with the display screen. In another embodiment of the assembly the intensity level of the backlighting is compatible with night vision imaging system NVIS .

Another aspect of the present invention relates to a method of controlling backlighting for a display screen. One embodiment of the method includes providing a display screen having a controller and a light source comprising a red LED a green LED a blue LED and a white LED where each LED is disposed to emit light into a light distribution panel for backlighting the display screen. A controller receives or is capable of receiving an user selected dimmer setting and or a backlight color selection. The method also includes the step of determining a respective intensity value of each LED of the light source based on the backlight color selection and an illuminating one or more of the LEDs of the light source to the respective intensity value using the controller.

In another embodiment the method includes the step of providing a display screen includes selecting a light source that includes one or more yellow LEDs. In another embodiment the step of providing a display screen includes selecting a light source including a cold cathode fluorescent tube CCFT .

In another embodiment the method also includes the steps of determining whether to illuminate the CCFT based on the user selected dimmer setting and illuminating the CCFT if the user selected dimmer setting is above a predetermined threshold value.

In another embodiment of the method the step of providing a display screen includes selecting the controller having a lower power section with power output adjustable according to a linear scale and a higher power with power output adjustable according to a logarithmic scale.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in . illustrates a side view of components in one embodiment of a backlight assembly of the present invention for use with an LCD display panel . Backlight assembly includes a light guide panel a reflective polarizing film a light mixing bar a light source and a controller not shown electrically coupled to a LED board . Light source is disposed adjacent a first end of a light guide panel . An optional EMI screen is situated between LCD display panel and light guide panel .

In one embodiment light source includes a cold cathode fluorescent tube CCFT that extends along a major portion of first end of light guide panel or LCD display panel . In other embodiments light source includes a plurality of LEDs disposed along first end of light guide panel . In one embodiment light source includes red green and blue LEDs. In other embodiments light source includes red green and blue LEDs in addition to white LEDs. In yet other embodiments light source also includes include yellow LEDs. In still other embodiments light source includes LEDs only but no CCFT. LEDs of light source are preferably arranged in an array.

In still other embodiments light source includes a white LED in addition to an LED that emits a specially selected spectrum of light. The specially selected spectrum has a specific wavelength output. Such an embodiment is useful for displays having single purpose specialty viewing requirements. This embodiment does not provide the ability to select a light spectrum by utilizing the driver to drive individual RGB LEDs to needed intensities. However this embodiment does greatly simplify the drive and construction demands of a backlight assembly for specific applications that require only daylight viewing normal viewing and specialty viewing backlighting. The specialty viewing backlighting demands only one spectrum of light and is satisfied by providing a white LED in addition to an LED of a selected light spectrum.

The color of light emitted by LEDs is generally determined by the peak wavelength. Table 1 below shows the peak wavelength color name viewing angle and the LED material of commercially available LEDs. The viewing angle refers to the angle between a light beam emitted from the LED and a central axis through the LED.

Thus using Table 1 as an example a red LED has a preferred peak wavelength of 635 nm with other acceptable values being from about 633 nm to about 660 nm a green LED has a preferred peak wavelength of 560 nm with other acceptable values being from about 555 nm to about 565 nm a blue LED has a preferred peak wavelength of 470 nm or 430 nm with acceptable values being from about 430 nm to about 470 nm.

The term red LED in one embodiment includes any LED having a peak wavelength from about 620 nm to about 700 nm such as 700 nm deep red 660 nm red 650 nm red 645 nm bright red 630 nm He Ne Laser red or 620 nm orange red . The term green LED in one embodiment includes any LED having a peak wavelength from about 525 nm to about 570 nm such as 570 nm lime green 555 nm blue lime green 550 nm emerald green 525 nm pure green or 532 nm green . The term blue LED in one embodiment includes any LED having a peak wavelength from about 450 nm to about 475 nm such as 475 nm azure blue 473 nm blue 470 nm 460 nm bright blue or 450 nm pure blue . The term yellow LED in one embodiment includes any LED having a peak wavelength from about 570 nm to about 595 nm such as 570 nm 585 nm 592 nm and 595 nm.

White LEDs have a broad spectrum of light emitted by phosphors together with a short wavelength LED. For example when one phosphor material included in a blue LED is illuminated by the emitted blue light the phosphor material emits yellow light having a relatively broad spectral distribution. By using the phosphor in a blue LED having a dominant peak wavelength of about 450 to 470 nanometers some of the blue light is converted to yellow light having a lower peak from 500 600 nm. In one embodiment the lower peak emitted by the phosphor is from 560 585 nm. The yellow light emission curve is relatively broad compared to the relatively narrow peaks of red blue and green LEDs. When the remaining blue light is mixed with the yellow light the result is white light.

Preferably backlight assembly has light source with CCFT and an array of RGB W or RGBY W LEDs. Light source includes one or more LEDs positioned adjacent CCFT in channel of light mixing bar as indicated by LED . Alternately or in addition all or part of light source is positioned adjacent light mixing bar such as when LEDs are electrically coupled to a LED board as illustrated by LED

In one embodiment LEDs of light source are disposed on LED board and are preferably arranged in an array having at least red green and blue light output. The array in one embodiment is a single row of LEDs in other embodiments the array has a plurality of rows of LEDs. When CCFT is present the array of LEDs preferably has a length that depends on the length of the CCFT s . Using both the RGB W or RGBY W LEDs and CCFT provides improved daytime operation due to increased backlight intensity for LCD display panel .

Mixed light emitted from light source may be directed into the end of light guide panel as a replacement for or in addition to light source . In other embodiments mixed light is introduced from behind LCD display panel by distributing LEDs of different colors across the backside of the LCD display panel . In yet other embodiments all or part of light source is positioned along two or more ends of LCD display panel such as along left right top and or bottom sides of a rectangular display. In such embodiments multiple light guide panels may be present one for each portion of light source .

Light source preferably includes both primary color LEDs red green and blue in addition to yellow and white LEDs to provide sufficient light output levels for daylight viewing as well as spectrum controlled viewing. Spectrum controlled viewing typically requires significantly lower LCD display luminance levels than daylight viewing. Including white LEDs ensures that adequate day viewing luminance levels are maintained.

LED board in one embodiment includes a plurality of FET devices or transistors e.g. FETs or MOSFETs and or zener diodes . As shown in in one embodiment LED board includes one FET per LED or string of LEDs . In embodiments with fault monitoring as shown in two FETs are present per LED or LED string where a first FET is connected in series with a second FET . Separate on off signals e.g. are communicated from controller to gate G of first FET and to gate G of second FET . Separate signals for each FET allows controller turn off first FET and break the DC power connection to second FET independently of the controller signal to gate G of second FET . DC power is received from power source at drain D of first FET . The source output of first FET is input to the drain D of second FET . Source S of second FET connects to sensing circuitry and to controller . A power diode and an inductor I are included in a loop between LED and second FET . During normal operation first FET is almost always on unless a fault is detected at which point it is turned off. The wiring diagram of uses pulse width modulation to provide power to LED with a power level corresponding to the user selected intensity value for backlighting.

An example of an acceptable FED device is IRFR210BTM 200V 2.7 A Fast Switching MOSFET as made by Fairchild Semiconductor. Preferably LEDs are high output LEDs that operate with 38 VDC 1.2 Amp drive and provide 8 000 lumens output. When LED board includes FET devices a heat sink on the FET device is needed or the FET device should be mounted to an aluminum board for heat sinking. When using high output LEDs as mentioned the requirement for heat dissipation for the LEDs makes it is advantageous to include the FET devices together on LED board with LEDs and to use a common heat sink for both the FET devices and LEDs . For a common heat sink LED board preferably is an aluminum circuit board that is thermally connected to heat sink rather than the typical fiberglass circuit board. This arrangement overcomes the problem of large size and high cost of having a separate high power LED driver board with FET devices and the heat sinks required of high power FET devices . Cost and size benefits are particularly noticeable when driving a number of high power LED circuits each with its own FET power drive requirement.

By including high power FET devices onto LED board all that is needed is a low power control circuit from controller and a separate power supply . This means the control circuit can be embedded into backlighting assembly in a location other than on LED board . By doing so one controller is used to control multiple strings of LEDs and controller can remotely locate the power supply. Therefore if DC power is available separately from backlighting assembly the expense of a power supply is also saved.

LED board in one embodiment includes circuitry necessary to receive power level commands from controller . Controller is supplied by a high power DC power supply and provides the DC power to drive LEDs . Accordingly controller and LED board are configured to independently set the LED light output level of each LED of light source . In one embodiment a light output level or intensity of each LED of light source is controlled using direct control of voltage or current. Light intensity of each LED of light source can also be controlled by adjusting the value of the LED supply voltage. Other methods to control light intensity are also acceptable provided that the light output level of any one LED can be set or controlled independently of the level of any other LED. To dissipate heat LED board is preferably is attached to or contacts a heat sink having a plurality of fins . Controller preferably is distinct from LED board to avoid the heat of LEDs . In one embodiment controller is an external control unit capable of communicating with LED board .

Light guide panel is a plastic sheet that tapers from a larger first end with first side thickness to a smaller second end with second side thickness . In one embodiment first side thickness is about 4 mm and second side thickness is about 1 mm. Light guide panel has a reflective surface opposite of a first principal face or emission surface both of which extend between first end and second end . First principal face is generally aligned with and positioned substantially parallel to LCD display panel . Accordingly second principal face or reflective surface is generally angled with respect to first principal face and LCD display panel . A series of diffusers e.g. protrusions or depressions on sloped second principal face diffuse light evenly across light guide panel . In one embodiment the density or size of diffusers increases across reflective surface in a direction moving from first end to second end . Diffused light exits light guide panel through first principal face .

In one embodiment light guide panel has an edge portion extending along first principal face and having an edge thickness that is smaller than first side thickness . A rear surface of first side edge portion is a reflective surface that reflects light from light source into first end of light guide panel .

A reflective polarizing film preferably abuts or is affixed to first principal face of light guide panel . Polarizing film internally reflects any non polarized light and allows polarized light to pass through in one or more pre defined directions to illuminate LCD display panel .

An optional light mixing bar or channel is situated adjacent first end of light guide panel . Light mixing bar mixes the colors and intensity of light emitted from each individual LED into a color that is representative of the CIE color scale and has a uniform intensity. Light source is preferably positioned within or adjacent to light mixing bar .

Referring now to top front and end views respectively illustrate one embodiment of light mixing bar . Light mixing bar is preferably a longitudinal U shaped bar of generally rectangular overall cross sectional shape. A channel extends along light mixing bar and is sized and configured to accept light source . Channel in one embodiment has one open end and one closed end . In other embodiments ends are either both open or both closed. In one embodiment channel has reflective surfaces to reflect light from light source shown in . Reflective surfaces are preferably arranged substantially perpendicularly to one another and define a U shape. In one embodiment reflective surfaces are part of walls that define channel in other embodiments reflective surfaces are distinct from walls of channel .

A plurality of optional recessed openings extend transversely through a lower portion of light mixing bar and are useful for attaching light mixing bar to other components in backlight assembly . Lower portion is the portion of light mixing bar positioned beneath channel as shown in . Recessed openings accept fasteners not shown for attachment to bottom bezel part as shown in . A plurality of optional openings extend transversely at least partially through lower portion of light mixing bar . Openings are useful to receive fasteners shown in for attachment of additional components such as heat sink as shown in .

An inner edge of top bezel part extends inwardly past bottom bezel part to define a pocket between top bezel part and bottom bezel part . Pocket receives an edge of LCD display panel e.g. a touch screen LCD display panel . In one embodiment edge has an edge gasket that extends around the perimeter of LCD display panel and contacts edge on three sides. Edge gasket in one embodiment is a U shaped neoprene rubber channel gasket or edge trim that extends continuously along edges of all four sides of a rectangular panel. Typically LCD display panel in one embodiment has a conductive surface positioned within the bounds of edge gasket . Pocket optionally receives an EMI panel or screen such as a copper mesh laminated to polycarbonate. In one embodiment EMI screen has 0.001 copper mesh with 80 openings per inch and oriented at 45 to rectangular top bezel part .

In the embodiment shown in EMI screen directly abuts protrusion of bottom bezel part with its back side and directly abuts edge gasket with its front side . Edge gasket along front side of LCD display panel directly abuts top bezel part . In some embodiments top bezel part and bottom bezel part define a plurality of slots or pockets to accommodate various layers or components in display assembly . These component layers include LCD display panel EMI screen and light guide panel for example. Pockets may be defined by channels formed in tabs e.g. protrusion extending from or gaps between portions of one or both of top bezel part and or bottom bezel part . Pockets may overlap from front to back i.e. from top bezel part to bottom bezel part and the number of pockets may be limited by the number of components and the combined thickness of the top and bottom bezel parts .

Light guide panel is situated behind bottom bezel part . An edge portion of light guide panel has a front face that abuts the back side of protrusion of bottom bezel part . In one embodiment a bottom face of edge portion also directly abuts a light mixing bar fastened to the back side of bottom bezel part and containing light source . LED board is fastened to heat sink .

As described above and shown in some gaps between individual components are filled by a gasket such as U shaped gasket on edge of LCD display panel . In other instances no gasket exists between components and top or bottom bezel parts . That is some components such as EMI panel and LCD display panel are preferably held in direct contact with top or bottom bezel part rather than having a softer intermediate rubber gasket or other material between the component and the bezel. A gasket or other less rigid material may be perceived as providing a dampening effect but in actuality it tends to reflect first shock waves where they combine with secondary shock waves to produce a larger effective shock wave. The larger effective shock wave can cause damage to components of LCD display assembly . Eliminating a gasket in some instances therefore causes shock forces to be transmitted through component parts and results in a greater ability to successfully sustain high levels of shock without damage. Preferably LCD display assembly is configured to qualify for Military Specification MIL S 901D type C shock testing for subassemblies incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrates one embodiment of LED board with light controller used to control backlight illumination of LCD display panel . Light controller preferably has four control channels when used to control red green blue and white LEDs. Light controller preferably has five channels when used to control red green blue yellow and white LEDs. Each control channel is assigned to LEDs emitting a particular wavelength or band of light where one channel is assigned to each color and one channel is assigned to white. When CCFT is present light controller also includes a variable voltage output for controlling CCFT of light source a digital dimmer input for intensity control of CCFT a LED driver board that drives LEDs and a serial interface for communication with a computer or CPU .

Control software allows the operator to configure light controller for at least three different operational modes. The operator can define each mode to operate as desired. For example a typical marine configuration defines a Daylight Readability Mode where RGB W RGBY W channels are configured for white light and the CCFT is turned on a Human Night Vision Conservation Mode with RGB W RGBY W configured for low intensity Human Night Vision compatibility and CCFT is turned off and a NVIS Mode with RGB W RGBY W configured for night vision goggle compatibility and CCFT is turned off. In daytime readability mode display panel preferably has an average light intensity value of at least 400 nits more preferably more than 600 nits. In some embodiments display panel has an average light intensity of 1000 to 1100 nits or more.

Using dimmer input from a digital dimmer the average light intensity value of light source is adjustable from off to maximum intensity over 65 536 steps. This gives very fine control over backlight intensity. Because CCFTs are voltage controlled devices that require a minimum turn on voltage to operate CCFT is not able to accurately control low level intensity settings. Thus light controller preferably includes a configurable transition setting with a value between 0 and 100 . The transition setting value determines when the CCFT is enabled or disabled. For example the CCFT is disabled when the intensity setting is below the transition value. Typically the transition value for CCFTs is 35 of maximum intensity. The transition setting enables the light output from LEDs of light source to provide accurate intensity control at settings below the turn on voltage of CCFT . In one embodiment digital dimmer is a single unit with CPU or computer .

Two power conservation modes are integrated into controller . One mode addresses power and heat management when operating at full intensity the other mode addresses power management when operating on secondary power such as a battery. When operating on primary power e.g. 115 VAC the maximum backlight intensity can be reduced via configuration to better manage power use and heat generation. An override intensity boost feature allows RGB W RGBY W controller to output full intensity for a configurable short duration to aid the operator when interacting with the display in high bright conditions. When operating on secondary power e.g. battery the backlight intensity is reduced for longer battery life.

Application software of the present invention includes a DLL file that can be linked into the application software. The DLL file provides an application programming interface that allows the application to configure and control controller with the following features 

Turning now to a flow chart illustrates steps in one embodiment of a method of backlighting. In step a display is provided that includes a light source with LEDs for backlighting the display and a controller for controlling the intensity of the backlighting. A DC power supply is included to supply power to drive the LEDs. In one embodiment the light source includes one or more of each of red green blue and white LEDS. In another embodiment the light source also includes one or more yellow LEDs.

In step the light source is optionally selected to include a cold cathode fluorescent tube CCFT . The CCFT is useful for backlighting the display in display settings having a higher light intensity.

In step controller receives a user selected dimmer setting from dimmer . The dimmer setting specifies an average light intensity value of display backlighting. Controller converts the user input to an output drive signal to FETs on an LED driver board included in controller .

In one embodiment controller is programmed for dual sensitivity. In a lower power sensitivity region the dimmer setting is selected according to a linear scale and a higher power region the dimmer setting is selected according to a logarithmic scale. In another embodiment controller is designed as a linear controller across the entire range of light intensity requirements with sufficient resolution to meet both the low level light output requirements and the regular day time viewing light requirements. In one such embodiment controller has 65 536 light steps for each color driven where each color is individually and separately controlled and so that each LED output can be set to a light step independent of any other LED output e.g. R G B Y or W .

In step a backlight color selection is optionally received at the controller. In some embodiments backlighting is provided according to a predetermined color palette. In other embodiments the wavelength s of the backlighting varies depending on the dimmer setting. In yet other embodiments the user selects a backlight color depending on the application.

In step a CPU of controller uses a color selection algorithm as known in the art to select one or more backlight color wavelengths or bands of wavelengths for the backlight color selection. In one embodiment the controller converts the backlight color wavelength s to CIE color space Commission Internationale del Eclairage 1931 using color selection algorithms known in the art. Other color selection algorithms known in the art are also acceptable. In one embodiment the user sets or inputs the desired color spectrum from a Graphical User Interface displaying a CIE color map as is known in the art. The user alternately may input RGB color numbers from the CIE color space.

In step CPU included in controller or separate from controller determines the intensity of each LED for the backlight color selection. In one embodiment the controller uses a CIE color realization algorithm as known in the art to calculate the intensities for each LED and for the CCFT if included . In one embodiment a CCFT signal is a variable voltage signal.

In step the controller communicates LED intensity information to FETs located on an LED driver board that is part of controller or separate from controller and coupled to LED board . In another embodiment FETs are located on LED board where LED board provides mounting and circuitry to connect power to the individual LEDs of light source . A DC power supply coupled to controller provides the power to drive the LEDs. Controller uses output drive signals to command the FETs on LED board on a separate LED driver board to turn on and off thereby providing the desired LED power levels and desired color output. In one embodiment LED board includes protective circuitry that senses the return LED current value of each LED on LED board to prevent reverse power from burning out LEDs.

In step based on the communicated LED intensity information controller illuminates individual LEDs of the light source to provide a color schedule in accordance with color selection. In one embodiment the LED intensities emit light in accordance with the CIE color space.

In step depending on whether the value of the dimmer setting is above a predetermined threshold value the controller optionally illuminates CCFT. For example in low light conditions the CCFT will not be used because the intensity of light provided by the CCFT at the minimum turn on voltage exceeds what is needed. In daylight reading conditions for example the CCFT is used in addition to the LEDs of the light source to provide backlighting sufficient for daylight readability.

Although the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described herein the above description is merely illustrative. Further modification of the invention herein disclosed will occur to those skilled in the respective arts and all such modifications are deemed to be within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

