---

title: Remote sensing device, system, and method utilizing smartphone hardware components
abstract: A remote sensing device, system and method is described. The remote sensing device includes an enclosure, a smartphone, and a microcontroller. The smartphone is fixedly coupled to the enclosure. The microcontroller is communicatively coupled to the smartphone. The microcontroller includes a power management module, a controller, and a wireless sensor network. The power management module is electrically coupled to an auxiliary battery that powers the smartphone. The controller is communicatively coupled to smartphone and the controller controls the power management module. The wireless sensor network includes a wireless communication interface that is different from the smartphone wireless communication interface. The remote sensing system includes a remote sensing component, a network module such as a web application server, and a database. The network module is communicatively coupled to the wide area network and receives sensor signal output and a timestamp from the smartphone. The database logs the sensor signal output communicated by the smartphone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401977&OS=09401977&RS=09401977
owner: 
number: 09401977
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140606
---
This patent application claims the benefit of provisional patent application 61 896 573 filed on Oct. 28 2013 and entitled REMOTE SENSING SYSTEM UTILIZING A SMARTPHONE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The claims presented herein are related to a remote sensing device system and method. More particularly the claims presented herein are related to a remote sensing device system and method that utilize a plurality of smartphone hardware components.

A wide range of business scientific law enforcement manufacturing and production applications require the ability to measure and collect data and imagery in remote locations. This data supports specific operational requirements such as site security and surveillance opening gates measuring water or electricity levels of temperatures as well as management reporting functions trend information .

Remote sensing has the potential to be used in an even wider range of such applications as the value of information becomes more valuable to many industries and business areas. A limiting factor in unlocking this potential is the cost and complexity of the systems and processes required to implement remote sensing capabilities and applications. Remote sensing applications can be in fixed positions or mobile.

Remote sensing applications are diverse and extensive. Some of the applications include water treatment electrical power distribution and generation oil and gas drilling and production water management motor racing transportation surveillance military applications environmental monitoring scientific research telemedicine fishery and wildlife management and research retail law enforcement energy management testing manufacturing and facility and infrastructure management e.g. bridges tunnels and healthcare .

There is also a need and value in having remote still and video data for such functions as situational awareness surveillance and security alarm verification documentation and troubleshooting at the remote location.

Traditional remote measurement and sensing applications involve analog signals e.g. thermistors to sense temperature as well as digital signals contact closures relay outputs . Hardware for remote monitoring systems is generally purpose designed around an embedded microprocessor memory modems and IO. Modems and IO are often designed as modules in order to support configurations for different applications.

Most remote sensing applications have a requirement to operate standalone without outside power. This is often done by solar power panels or increasingly various means of energy harvesting. Remote sensing systems must be able to operate 24 hours per day seven days per week when there is no sun and in the case of power interruptions. Total power consumption then is a key design variable and contributes substantially to size cost and installation efforts. Smartphone platforms are designed for extremely low standby power consumption often 1 2 orders of magnitude lower than traditional remote monitoring hardware.

Typical camera systems deployed for security or surveillance in outdoor settings employ motion detectors to control alarming functions as well as the amount of video stored or transmitted. Such systems also typically employ illumination systems to enable image capture at night. Current state of the art technology is a single node which integrates a camera single or multi sensor PIR for motion detection and one or more illumination elements. The fields of view of the camera passive infrared receivers PIR and illumination elements are designed to coincide.

There are a number of technologies for motion detection with the most common being passive infrared receivers. Costs of perimeter surveillance systems are driven by the costs of the total number of cameras that must be deployed to cover a given area. In turn the coverage capability of a given motion detection and illumination camera system is typically governed by the range capabilities of the motion detection and illumination components.

The overall coverage range of a given camera system has also been limited by the camera capabilities such as pixel count. As camera pixel counts have improved dramatically the design of more cost effective perimeter surveillance systems remains limited by the reach of the motion detection and illumination components.

An improved perimeter security and surveillance solution would include an ability to detect motion over a large area at low cost an ability to provide illumination for night imaging over a large area at low cost and limited power requirements for both motion detection and illumination in order to simplify cost of deployment and installation.

A system with these properties would provide a significant improvement in the price performance capabilities of perimeter security systems by reducing the total number of cameras required to cover a given area of interest. The low power and wireless aspects provide additional improvements by lowering the total system cost by simplifying installation and maintenance of the system.

A remote sensing device system and method is described. The remote sensing device includes an enclosure a smartphone and a microcontroller. The smartphone is fixedly coupled to the enclosure. The smartphone includes a smartphone processor a smartphone memory communicatively coupled to the processor a smartphone camera communicatively coupled to the smartphone processor and the smartphone memory a first smartphone wireless communication interface that communicates with a wide area network and a second smartphone wireless communication interface that communicates with at least one device that is in or near the housing. A smartphone battery is electrically coupled to the smartphone processor the smartphone memory the smartphone camera the first smartphone communication interface and the second smartphone communication interface.

The microcontroller is communicatively coupled to the smartphone. The microcontroller includes a power management module a controller and a wireless sensor network. The power management module is electrically coupled to an auxiliary battery that powers the smartphone and microcontroller. The controller is communicatively coupled to smartphone and the controller controls the power management module. The wireless sensor network includes a third smartphone wireless communication interface that is different from the first and second smartphone wireless communication interface.

In one illustrative embodiment the power management module manages a high power condition and a low power condition. In another illustrative embodiment the at least one external sensor is communicatively coupled to the second smartphone network interface wherein the external sensor detects at least one sensor signal output and communicates the sensor signal output to the smartphone which then communicates the sensor signal output and a corresponding timestamp to the wide area network. In another embodiment the microcontroller s wireless sensor network module is communicatively coupled to the external sensor using a shared wireless communication protocol supported by the external sensor and the wireless sensor network module.

In another embodiment the sensor includes a motion detection sensor and an illumination node. The illumination node signals when motion is detected and then triggers the camera to capture an image.

In yet another embodiment the remote sensing device includes a separate camera communicatively coupled to the smartphone. In still a further embodiment the remote sensing device includes an auxiliary battery that charges the smartphone.

In a still further embodiment the remote sensing device includes a temperature sensor within the enclosure a cooling component and a heating component. The cooling component is disposed within the enclosure and cools the smartphone and the sensors housed by the enclosure when the temperature rises above a first threshold temperature that is measured by the temperature sensor. The heating component is also disposed within the enclosure and heats the smartphone and the sensors housed by the enclosure when the temperature falls below a second threshold temperature that is measured by the temperature sensor.

In another embodiment the remote sensing device includes a smartphone software module operating on the smartphone processor and smartphone memory wherein the smartphone software module includes a data component that includes a database with sensor data collected by the remote sensing device. In yet another embodiment the smartphone software module includes an event and data manager that transmits alarms and notifications according to a configuration data component. In a still further embodiment the smartphone software module includes a hibernate mode in which the smartphone is shut off and power to the smartphone is removed.

A remote sensing system is also described that includes the remote sensing component described above a web application server and a database. The web application server is communicatively coupled to the wide area network and receives the sensor signal output and corresponding timestamp from the smartphone. The database is communicatively coupled to the web application server and logs the sensor signal output and timestamp communicated by the smartphone.

Another illustrative remote sensing system is also described that does not include the separate microcontroller module described above. The other illustrative remote sensing system includes an enclosure a smartphone and at least one sensor. The smartphone that is coupled to the enclosure includes a smartphone processor a smartphone memory communicatively coupled to the processor a smartphone camera communicatively coupled to the smartphone processor and the smartphone memory a first smartphone wireless communication interface that communicates with a wide area network and a smartphone battery electrically coupled to the smartphone processor the smartphone memory the smartphone camera and the first smartphone communication interface. The smartphone camera captures at least one image and the smartphone generates a corresponding timestamp. The image and the timestamp are then communicated to the wide area network.

In a further illustrative embodiment the remote sensing system also includes a network module and a database. The network module is communicatively coupled to the wide area network wherein the network module receives the sensor signal output and corresponding timestamp from the smartphone. The database is communicatively coupled to the network module and the database logs the sensor signal output and timestamp communicated by the smartphone.

A remote sensing method is also presented that includes coupling the smartphone to an enclosure. The method then proceeds to capture at least one image with the smartphone camera wherein the smartphone generates a corresponding timestamp. The image and the timestamp are then communicated to the wide area network. The method then proceeds to enable the network module that is communicatively coupled to the wide area network to receive the sensor signal output from the smartphone camera and the corresponding timestamp. The method then logs the sensor signal output and timestamp communicated by the smartphone in a database that is communicatively coupled to the network module.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following description is illustrative and not in any way limiting. Other embodiments of the claimed subject matter will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons having the benefit of this disclosure. It shall be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the systems methods and apparatuses described hereinafter may vary as to configuration and as to details. The systems may vary as to details and particular embodiments that reside on the network side and the elements that reside on the client side. Also the methods may vary as to details order of the actions or other variations without departing from the illustrative methods disclosed here in. Additionally the apparatuses may vary as to details such as size configuration mechanical elements material properties housings and other such parameters.

The illustrative remote sensing device presented herein includes an enclosure with a smartphone and a microcontroller. The illustrative smartphone does not require hardware modification and supports software modification on the smartphone. Additionally the illustrative smartphone housed by the enclosure presented herein is configured to interface with a microcontroller or circuit that is electrically coupled to the smartphone and can wirelessly communicate with a plurality of other remote sensors.

A remote sensing system that includes a network module such as an illustrative web application server is also described. In operation the data from the remote sensors is communicated to the web application server via the microcontroller and the smartphone.

The microcontroller also communicates with a power management module that manages the power being fed from an auxiliary battery to the smartphone. The power management module manages the charging of the auxiliary battery. The power management module enables the smartphone to be powered with a sustainable yet unreliable power source such as solar or wind power. Thus the power management module can manage high power and low power conditions.

Smartphones are distinguished by powerful processors to handle images and video in real time including digitization of camera inputs. Also smartphones include built in wireless interfaces such as Wi Fi Bluetooth and 3G 4G mobile. Additionally smartphones include extremely low power consumption and various low power operation modes. Furthermore smartphones include built in high capacity batteries and charging circuitry and substantial memory including non volatile storage for large amounts of data. Further still smartphones include multi tasking operating systems including the ability to easily install and configure general purpose applications which can utilize phone hardware functions including communications. Further yet smartphones also include multi band cellular interfaces including efficient data transmission and hardware integration including custom ASICS that provide small size low cost and low power consumption.

Wireless carriers have device requirements to support devices operating on their network. If hardware modifications are made to a particular smartphone then the particular smartphone has to be recertified. In one illustrative embodiment there are no hardware changes that require recertification.

An auxiliary battery is also provided. The auxiliary battery is electrically coupled to the power management module and the illustrative solar panels. The solar panels charge the auxiliary battery which then charges the smartphone battery.

By way of example and not of limitation a passive infrared PIR sensor or a remote thermal infrared TIR sensor is presented as an element of the overall system that can operate independently of the microcontroller or smartphone presented herein. The illustrative remote PIR TIR or combination thereof is configured to interface with other camera systems.

In operation the illustrative remote sensing system provides a perimeter security and surveillance solution that has the ability to detect motion over a large area at low cost an ability to provide illumination for night imaging over a large area at low cost and limited power requirements for both motion detection and illumination in order to simplify cost of deployment and installation.

The illustrative system method and apparatuses presented herein provide a significant improvement in the price performance capabilities of perimeter security systems by reducing the total number of cameras required to cover a given area of interest. The low power and wireless aspects provide additional improvements by lowering the total system cost by simplifying installation and maintenance of the system. Additionally the modifications to achieve the autonomous operation presented herein are not intended to be limiting or specific to the illustrative Android operating system. Other operating systems such as Apple s iOS Microsoft s Windows Phone and other such smartphone operating systems may also be used.

Illustrative features of the remote sensing device system and method include support for a solar powered camera image processing including image motion detection so that video is only streamed when something happens and alarms only when intrusion is detected. Additionally the remote sensing system enables a remote telemetry monitoring and control system to estimate power and bandwidth consumption. Furthermore the remote sensing system also supports thermal management over a diurnal cycle with an auxiliary battery and a clean energy source such as solar or wind.

Referring to there is shown an illustrative remote sensing device and a remote sensing system . The illustrative remote sensing device includes an enclosure a smartphone at least one sensor or actuator and a microcontroller having its own microprocessor. The illustrative remote sensing device is also referred to as an MNode and these terms may be used interchangeably in this patent. In the illustrative embodiment the smartphone is fixedly coupled to the enclosure . The illustrative smartphone further includes a smartphone processor a smartphone memory that is communicatively coupled to the smartphone processor and a smartphone camera communicatively coupled to the smartphone processor and the smartphone memory. Further detail of the illustrative smartphone is provided in below.

In one illustrative embodiment the microcontroller includes a power management module a controller and a wireless standard network interface. The illustrative microcontroller is electrically coupled to a power input such as an auxiliary battery that is powered by a solar panel. The illustrative microcontroller is also electrically coupled to an illustrative data or communications line . Further detail of this illustrative embodiment is provided in below.

Alternatively the microcontroller may be more limited in its functionality and simply provide an interface for an external power supply and a battery charging circuit that is electrically coupled to the smartphone as described in below.

By way of example and not of limitation the illustrative sensor or actuator includes a motion detection sensor that signals when motion is detected and then triggers the smartphone camera to capture at least one image. The illustrative motion sensor may be within the enclosure . In an alternative embodiment the motion sensor may also be external to the enclosure and be communicatively coupled to the microcontroller using the WSN Wi Fi NFC a hardwired connection such as USB or Ethernet and any other such communication methods or standards.

To allow imaging at night or during low light with the smartphone camera sensor the illustrative remote sensing system may also include at least one illumination node . Additionally a plurality of illumination nodes may be utilized to further extend the viewing range of the smartphone camera . The illumination nodes may be strategically located within the physical premises. Additionally the illumination may occur inside the enclosure.

In one illustrative embodiment the illustrative sensor includes a daylight sensor that indicates when it is dark and causes the illumination node to illuminate a nearby area so the smartphone camera can capture an illuminated image. Further detail of the illustrative illumination node is provided in presented below.

In a further embodiment the remote sensing device may also include a sensor or that is separated from the enclosure. The illustrative separate sensor includes a separate camera communicatively coupled to the smartphone and a separate motion detection sensor that signals when motion is detected and sends a message using one of the smartphone communication interfaces to the separate camera which then captures at least one image. By way of example and not of limitation the separate sensor may be disposed inside the enclosure .

In a still further embodiment the sensor within the remote sensing device may also include a temperature sensor . The temperature sensor may be used to control a cooling component and a heating component that is described in further detail in below.

The remote sensing device is communicatively coupled to a networked module which includes by way of example and not of limitation an illustrative web application server . In one embodiment the web application server is disposed in a network cloud. In another embodiment the web application server is disposed on a premises based server. In certain embodiment the network may be a hybrid that includes the premises based server and the cloud based server

The illustrative cloud based web application server and premises based web application server are both behind an illustrative hardware firewall and respectively. Alternatively communications with the web applications servers may be performed using a virtual private network VPN that does not require a hardware firewall and operates as a software firewall. In one illustrative embodiment the network communications include wirelessly communicating with an illustrative base station that is managed by a wireless carrier. Alternatively communications with the remote sensing device include an illustrative Wi Fi access point that operates behind a software or hardware firewall which is communicatively coupled to a modem that in turn is communicatively coupled to the Internet.

The illustrative network module includes a database that receives the sensor signal output and corresponding timestamp. The timestamp may be generated by the sensor the smartphone or other network device in the communications path between the sensor or actuator or smartphone and the network module . In another illustrative embodiment the database is communicatively coupled to the networked module and logs the sensor signal output and timestamp communicated by the smartphone or sensor .

By way of example and not of limitation the illustrative network module for the remote sensing system includes a web application server that further includes the database. Additionally the smartphone of the remote sensing system further includes a smartphone application that configures the smartphone to interface with the illustrative microcontroller . In alternative embodiment the smartphone includes at least one Application Programming Interface API that receives the sensor signal output and the API communicates the sensor signal output received by the smartphone to the database associated with the web application server.

In yet another embodiment a power input interfaces with input power gathered from an external source such as mains solar panel energy harvesting circuits and other such power sources. One or more actuators may be connected to the remote sensing device via wired or wireless interfaces such as Ethernet serial Wi Fi Bluetooth 802.15.4 Zigbee or other low power wireless sensing network interface. The remote sensing device communicates with sensors to read sensed values as well sensor configuration data. The remote sensing device communicates with actuators to set output values. An illustrative USB communications port such as USB2 allows the remote sensing device to receive user inputs and provide user feedback.

Referring to there is shown an alternative illustrative remote sensing device that operates in similar manner as the remote sensing device except without the microcontroller . The remote sensing device includes an enclosure a smartphone and at least one sensor or actuator . As described herein the smartphone is fixedly coupled to the enclosure and includes a smartphone processor a smartphone memory smartphone battery and a smartphone camera communicatively coupled to the smartphone processor and the smartphone memory.

In one illustrative embodiment the smartphone camera operates as an internal sensor that captures at least one image. The smartphone generates a corresponding timestamp. The image and timestamp are then communicated to wide area network.

In another illustrative embodiment the sensor is housed within the enclosure and the sensor is electrically coupled and communicatively coupled to the smartphone via the second smartphone network interface. Alternatively the sensor or actuator may include an external sensor that housed outside in the enclosure and is separately powered yet communicatively coupled to the smartphone .

In operation at least one of the sensors or detects at least one sensor signal output and communicates the sensor signal output to the smartphone which then communicates the sensor signal output and a corresponding timestamp to the wide area network. As presented above the remote sensing device is communicatively coupled to a networked module which includes by way of example and not of limitation an illustrative web application server . In one embodiment the web application server is disposed in a network cloud and in another embodiment the web application server is disposed on a premises based server. The illustrative cloud based web application server and premises based web application server are both behind an illustrative hardware firewall and respectively. Alternatively communications with the web applications servers may be performed using a virtual private network VPN that does not require a hardware firewall and operates as a software firewall.

The illustrative web application server may also be embodied as one of four fundamental cloud service models namely infrastructure as a service IaaS platform as a service PaaS software as a service SaaS and network as a service NaaS . The cloud service models are deployed using different types of cloud deployments that include a public cloud a community cloud a hybrid cloud and a private cloud.

Infrastructure as a service IaaS is the most basic cloud service model. IaaS providers offer virtual machines and other resources. The virtual machines also referred to as instances are run as guests by a hypervisor. Groups of hypervisors within the cloud operational support system support large numbers of virtual machines and the ability to scale services up and down according to customers varying requirements. IaaS clouds often offer additional resources such as images in a virtual machine image library raw block and file based storage firewalls load balancers IP addresses virtual local area networks VLANs and software bundles. IaaS cloud providers supply these resources on demand from their large pools installed in data centers. For wide area connectivity the Internet can be used or virtual private networks VPNs can be used.

Platform as a service PaaS enables cloud providers to deliver a computing platform that may include an operating system a programming language execution environment a database and a web server. Application developers can develop and run their software solutions on the PaaS without the cost and complexity of buying and managing the underlying hardware and software layers. With some PaaS solutions the system resources scale automatically to match application demand so that the cloud end user does not have to allocate resources manually.

Software as a service SaaS enables cloud providers to install and operate application software in the cloud. Cloud end users access the software from cloud clients. The cloud end users do not manage the cloud infrastructure and platform that run the application. The SaaS application is different from other applications because of scalability. Scalability can be achieved by cloning tasks onto multiple virtual machines at run time to meet the changing work demand. Load balancers in the SaaS application distribute work over a set of virtual machines. To accommodate a large number of cloud end users cloud applications may be multitenant and serve more than one cloud end user organization. Some SaaS solutions may be referred to as desktop as a service business process as a service test environment as a service communication as a service etc.

The fourth category of cloud services is Network as a service NaaS in which the capability provided to the cloud service end user is to use a network transport connectivity services an inter cloud network connectivity services or the combination of both. NaaS involves the optimization of resource allocations by considering network and computing resources as a unified whole and traditional NaaS services which include flexible and extended VPN and bandwidth on demand.

In addition to the smartphone and smartphone other cloud clients may access the networked module . These client devices include but are not limited to desktop computers laptops tablets and other smartphones. Some of these cloud clients rely on cloud computing for all or a majority of their applications and would be essentially useless without it. Many cloud applications do not require specific software on the client device and instead use a web browser to interact with the cloud application.

There are different types of cloud deployment models for the cloud based service which include a public cloud a community cloud a hybrid cloud and a private cloud. In a public cloud applications storage and other resources are made available to the general public by a service provider. These services are free or offered on a pay per use model.

The community cloud infrastructure is between several organizations from a community with common concerns whether managed internally or by a third party and hosted internally or externally so the costs are spread over fewer users than a public cloud but more than a private cloud .

The private cloud infrastructure is operated solely for a single organization whether managed internally or by a third party and hosted internally or externally. A private cloud project requires virtualizing the business environment and it requires that the organization reevaluate decisions about existing resources.

The hybrid cloud is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together offering the benefits of multiple deployment models. Hybrid cloud architecture requires both on premises resources and off site remote server based cloud infrastructure. Although hybrid clouds lack the flexibility security and certainty of in house applications a hybrid cloud provides the flexibility of in house applications with the fault tolerance and scalability of cloud based services.

The illustrative network module may operate in any of the cloud service or cloud infrastructure models presented herein or which may readily suggest themselves to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this patent. The three primary software applications for the remote sensing system include the smartphone software module the illustrative web application server software module the microcontroller firmware module and firmware running in any of the remote sensors or actuators.

The illustrative smartphone software module includes a local software module configured to be executed on the smartphone . By way of example and not of limitation a smartphone using the Android operating system is configured to run a software application that communicates with the illustrative web application server software module.

The illustrative smartphone software module is also configured to receive configuration parameters from the web application server which control the operation of the remote sensing device or . These configuration parameters allow programming the remote sensing device or to schedule when logged data in the remote sensing device or software module is uploaded to the management node for archival and or viewing. The control parameters also include the frequency the smartphone software module should contact the illustrative web application server that is configured to retrieve any pending commands. The control parameters also include events or a schedule that cause an image a video or an analog or digital input to be captured by the remote sensing device or . An illustrative analog or digital input includes a Passive Infrared PIR motion detection input. Another control parameter includes conditions to test for generating alarms such as an alarm caused by PIR triggering. Yet another control parameter includes sending a destination and at least one message for each condition that occurs.

The illustrative web application server software module includes a web based application that executes in the cloud and communicates with all registered remote sensing devices or . The illustrative web application server software module is also configured to archive data from the remote sensing devices or and provide end users with a graphical interface for interacting with the remote sensing devices.

As described herein the illustrative web application server may reside in the cloud and include a mirror of collected data controls for setting configuration and managing multiple remote devices controls to deal with billing based on device controls for billing data access network usage controls to deal with end sensor device network management include sensor device registration and automating device configuration such as carrier based service limits. In yet another illustrative embodiment the illustrative web application server may also operate as a distributed system.

The illustrative microcontroller firmware module performs power management supervision alarming wireless sensor node management and manages environmental controls that provide heating and or cooling. The illustrative microcontroller firmware module communicates with the smartphone software module via USB. In an alternate embodiment the illustrative microcontroller firmware module is configured to communicate with the smartphone software module with a wireless communication protocol such as Wi Fi NFC or Bluetooth.

Referring to there is shown a detailed view of another illustrative remote sensing device and the associated hardware components. An illustrative smartphone executes the smartphone software module and performs remote sensing alarming and data archival. The illustrative remote sensing device comprises a microcontroller that further includes a power management module a controller a wireless sensor network WSN interface a temperature sensor such as a thermistor operatively coupled to the microcontroller a cooler element and a heater element that are also communicatively coupled to the microcontroller . The microcontroller includes a wireless sensor network WSN interface that can operate with additional wireless standards that are not supported by the smartphone .

The controller includes a microcontroller firmware module which manages and controls power management processes including reporting battery level alarming devices at threshold levels and communicating with wireless sensor nodes using the wireless sensor network . Specific input events received by the controller notify the smartphone to perform a particular operation. For example the microcontroller firmware module may be triggered to take a picture when a motion detector fires. In another illustrative example the microcontroller firmware module may be triggered to maintain the temperature within the enclosure within a required temperature range that keeps the smartphone working properly.

Additionally the illustrative microcontroller firmware includes code that executes on the controller and performs power management supervision alarming wireless sensor node management and environmental controls operations such as heating and cooling. In the illustrative embodiment the microcontroller firmware module communicates with the smartphone software module via USB. In an alternative embodiment the microcontroller firmware module communicates with the smartphone software module via a wireless interface such as NFC Bluetooth or Wi Fi.

Additionally the WSN interface is configured to interface with one or more remote sensors or other such Input Output devices that can communicate using the WSN interface . This allows remote inputs to be read by the remote sensing device .

In operation the illustrative power management module provides input power conditioning of the external power input and battery charging circuitry feeding both the internal smartphone battery and the auxiliary battery with a charge signal. The controller communicates with the power management module and is configured to turn the smartphone on or off.

An enclosure houses the smartphone electronic circuit temperature sensor cooler and heater . This enclosure seals these components from the environment and provides an appropriate thermal environment which can be temperature controlled to maintain internal temperatures within allowable range in the face of ambient temperature fluctuations. In the illustrative embodiment the enclosure is fabricated from materials that do not attenuate RF signals in the bands used by cellular Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC and wireless sensor networks.

In the illustrative embodiment the microcontroller connects to the smartphone with a USB connection. In the illustrative embodiment the ADB protocol is used with the USB connection in order to allow the microcontroller to communicate with the smartphone in a flexible fashion. Other protocols for communicating over a USB serial link or alternative wireless link embodiment may also be employed.

The smartphone software module executing on the smartphone is configured to communicate with the microcontroller over USB thereby allowing the phone to have access to power management functions as well as nodes attached to the WSN. Other modes and protocols for communication between the microcontroller and the smartphone will be apparent to one skilled in the art.

In certain embodiments the smartphone may be fitted with an optional external lens to provide narrower field of view or dynamic zoom capabilities. Additionally the remote sensing device may include an electro mechanical mechanism that enables the remote sensing device to point itself and correspondingly the camera field of view within a larger overall field of regard using a pan tilt mechanism. This pan tilt mechanism may be controlled by the remote sensing device based on locally executing logic or based on events detected by the attached WSN nodes or based on remote user inputs.

The cooling component within the enclosure cools the smartphone and the sensors housed by the enclosure when the temperature rises above a first threshold temperature that is measured by the temperature sensor. The heating component within the enclosure heats the smartphone and or the sensors and or the batteries housed by the enclosure when the temperature falls below a second threshold temperature that is measured by the temperature sensor.

In operation the controller communicates control signals to the smartphone . The controller controls the power management module and decides whether to feed power to the smartphone or not. Thus the controller optimizes power management by enabling the smartphone to enter and exit a sleep mode. In one illustrative embodiment the smartphone software module includes a power logic module and the microcontroller includes a separate power logic module in which the microcontroller may decide to put the smartphone in sleep mode. The controller also regulates the internal temperature of the enclosure so that the phone does not overheat or get too cold.

The power management module performs battery charging operations and state of charge measurements for the auxiliary battery and for the smartphone . The power management module includes a battery charging circuit that charges the auxiliary battery . The power management module includes a high power mode and a low power mode. The controller also manages the power being fed from the auxiliary battery to the smartphone . The power management module manages the charging of the auxiliary battery . The power management module enables the smartphone to be powered with a sustainable yet unreliable power source such as solar or wind power. Thus the power management module can manage high power and low power conditions.

The operations of the microcontroller may also be performed by the smartphone processor smartphone memory and smartphone wireless transceivers communicatively to the local sensors. In that case the illustrative smartphone would have to be powered with a typical 5V power connection. Current smartphones support Wi Fi Bluetooth and NFC and can use these wireless communication standards to communicate with other sensors. The smartphone may be powered with solar panel adapters that provide the required 5V charging power for a smartphone.

Referring to there is shown the electrical components for an illustrative smartphone . For purposes of this patent the illustrative smartphone is a multimode wireless device that comprises a first antenna element that is operatively coupled to a duplexer which is operatively coupled to a multimode transmitter module and a multimode receiver module .

An illustrative control module comprises a digital signal processor DSP a processor and a CODEC . The control module is communicatively coupled to the transmitter and receiver . The transmitter module and receiver module are typically paired and may be embodied as a transceiver. The illustrative transmitter receiver or transceiver is communicatively coupled to antenna element .

The DSP may be configured to perform a variety of operations such as controlling the antenna the multimode transmitter module and the multimode receiver module . The processor is operatively coupled to a sensor such as a camera. In operation the camera sensor is configured to be managed and controlled by the smartphone processor.

The processor is also operatively coupled to a memory a display and a charging circuit . The charging circuit is operatively coupled to a smartphone battery .

Additionally the processor is also operatively coupled to the CODEC module that performs the encoding and decoding operations and is communicatively coupled to a microphone and a speaker . The CODEC module is also communicatively coupled to the display and provides the encoding and decoding operations of captured video.

The memory includes two different types of memory namely volatile memory and non volatile memory . The volatile memory is computer memory that requires power to maintain the stored information such as random access memory RAM . The non volatile memory can retain stored information even when the wireless communication device is not powered up. Some illustrative examples of non volatile memory include flash memory ROM memory and hard drive memory.

Smartphone may also be referred to as a mobile handset mobile phone wireless phone portable cell phone cellular phone portable phone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet a portable media device a wearable computer or any type of mobile terminal which is regularly carried by an end user and has all the elements necessary for operation in the remote sensing system. The wireless communications include by way of example and not of limitation 3G 4G LTE CDMA WCDMA GSM UMTS or any other wireless communication system such as wireless local area network WLAN Wi Fi or WiMAX. Additionally the smartphone may also be connected via USB or via the Microcontroller to an external Satellite modem in order to provide an alternative to Mobile or Wi Fi for WAN connection.

Referring to there is shown a plurality of illustrative sensors that may be operatively coupled to the smartphone microcontroller or combination thereof. The sensors include an RGB camera that may be used to capture images videos or any combination thereof. Another sensor includes an infrared IR camera the may be used to capture IR images IR videos or any combination thereof. A proximity sensor may be used to detect a person entering a particular location and the proximity sensor may operate using an IR sensor. An ambient light sensor or photo sensor detects changes in light and the changes in light may be generally associated with a responsive input. A temperature sensor detects the temperature which may be generally associated with a responsive input. A pressure sensor detects the pressure and is generally associated with a responsive input e.g. change in pressure may indicate change in weather. A GPS or location sensor may also be used to determine or provide the location of smartphone microcontroller or any combination thereof. Also a microphone may be utilized as a sound sensor. Additionally auxiliary sensors for connecting to smartphones are known in the art these illustrative sensors take the form of a sled or phone case that incorporates a sensor that is not available inside the smartphone e.g. a thermal camera. Such a smartphone peripheral can easily be incorporated and provide an additional sensor in the system.

The first component of the software architecture includes the remote application interface module which manages the interaction with the remote user and any remote management application. More specifically the remote application interface module is configured to communicate with the illustrative WebApp Server shown in . The remote application interface module processes commands for changing the configuration data retrieves the collected data and receives immediate readings from attached sensors or the camera. The illustrative remote application interface is also responsible for sending any alarms or notifications generated by event and data manager .

The illustrative collected data component includes an illustrative database store of data acquired from the camera and or any attached sensors collected by the configuration data specification.

The illustrative configuration data component includes parameters that relate to the configuration of the remote sensing system including configurable aspects of data collection. By way of example and not of limitation data collection parameters include specification of the conditions upon which to begin and end data collection for each point the frequency of sampling etc. These conditions may have programmatic meaning because they are based on values of other sampled data. For example the camera can be trigged to store an image or a video clip when an attached motion detector is activated.

The illustrative configuration data component also includes a specification for events and notifications based in measured values from attached sensors and camera s . By way of example and not of limitation an alarm can be set such that if an attached temperature sensor reads above a certain value then an email text message or phone call is made to the specified addresses.

In the illustrative embodiment a sensor network management module is configured to communicate with any sensors attached to or communicatively coupled to the remote sensing system.

An illustrative event and data manager module is configured to ensure data is collected according to configuration data component . Additionally the event data manager is further configured to generate alarms and notifications according to configuration data component . The event and data manager also provides analytics. The event data manager includes logic to detect events based on collected data. For example one illustrative embodiment is a video motion detection function that utilizes video or images from the camera to determine if there is motion present in the scene. Such motion would result in a motion detection event which may then be communicated or used to trigger other events or actions. 

In the illustrative embodiment the integrated camera may be connected to an optional lens that is integral with the enclosure and the camera enclosure mounting system. The illustrative camera can be accessed from the smartphone operating system in order to capture still images or video clips. Depending on the smartphone used the camera may also include flash or other auxiliary mechanism to enhance image quality under various conditions.

In an alternative embodiment an optional second camera communicates with the smartphone via Wi Fi or other short range wireless technology supported by the smartphone NFC Bluetooth etc. The smartphone controls the auxiliary camera to configure capture images video etc. as if the auxiliary camera were built into the smartphone. Images from the external camera are transferred over the wireless interface to the smartphone and then are treated as if they were captured from the smartphone s internal camera.

The illustrative camera management module manages the integrated and optional auxiliary cameras to capture still or video imagery based on commands from the event and data manager and then stores those captured images in the collected data .

The smartphone software components are configured to operate at very low power. All programmed events such as timed data logging and schedules for upload of data are analyzed and the smartphone software application utilizes operating system features to place the phone into low power mode. Low power mode is exited when either the timer has expired or a message has arrived from the microcontroller over USB indicating an urgent IO event has occurred.

In one illustrative embodiment an algorithm operating on the microcontroller reads the thermistor and controls the heater and cooler to maintain internal temperature within operating range of the smartphone.

In the illustrative remote sensing device includes a camera having a field of view . During the day the sunlight provides enough light to fully illuminate the field of view of the camera of the remote sensing device .

However at night a single light source is unable to illuminate the entire field of view . To better illuminate the entire field of view a plurality of sensor illumination nodes are used. Each sensor illumination node includes a sensor and an illuminator that provides a sensor illumination field of view . For example the sensor illumination nodes and have a corresponding sensor illumination field of view and respectively.

In operation each sensor illumination node senses motion or other events of interest in the vicinity of that particular sensor illumination node . When the sensor illumination node detects an event the particular sensor illumination node sends a message to the remote sensing device using the illustrative wireless sensor network. The remote sensing device may then instruct the particular sensor illumination node to turn on the illumination so that imagery can be captured at night or with increased fidelity. The sensor illumination nodes are closer to the event or subject of interest than just a remote sensing device. As a result a larger area can be covered by the wirelessly networked sensor nodes in spite of sensing range limitations and illumination range limitations associated with the sensor illumination nodes .

Referring to there is shown a remote illumination and detection node a remote illumination node and a remote detection node respectively. More generally a remote illumination and detection method is also shown in .

The illustrative remote illumination and detection method is initiated at block where a detector generates a detection message when motion is detected by the detector. The illustrative detector includes a first wireless communications module that wirelessly transmits the detection message to a remote sensing device as described in block .

At block the remote sensing device then proceeds to generate an illumination instruction to illuminate an area within the field of view when the remote sensing device receives the detection message. The illustrative remote sensing device includes a camera having a field of view and a second wireless communications module that communicates with the first wireless communications module associated with the detector. The first wireless communications module and the second wireless communications module use the same wireless communication protocol.

The method then proceeds to block where the remote sensing device transmits the illumination instruction to an illuminator. The illuminator is communicatively coupled to a third wireless communications module that is communicatively coupled to the second communication module associated with the remote sensing device.

At block an area near the illuminator is illuminated when motion is detected by the detector and the illumination instruction is received by the illuminator.

Referring now to there is shown an illustrative illumination and detection node that is communicatively coupled to the remote sensing device . The illumination and detection node embodiment includes a motion or event detector and an illuminator that share the same housing a microprocessor and network interface module . The illustrative illumination and detection node share a network interface module that includes at least one wireless communication module that operates using a wireless communication protocol such as WSN Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC and other such wireless communications standards.

In operation the detector generates the detection message when motion is detected. The detection message is wirelessly communicated from the illumination and detection node to the remote sensing device . The remote sensing device may then proceed to generate an illumination instruction which is then communicated to the illumination and detection node . The area near the illuminator is illuminated when the illumination instruction communicated by the remote sensing device is received by the illumination and detection node . The illuminator may remain on until another illumination instruction is received that instructs the illuminator to turn off. The illumination and detection node includes a battery electrically coupled to a charge circuit that is electrically coupled to a solar panel . Alternatively power may be provided from other energy sources such as a gasoline or diesel generator the electrical grid wind energy and other such energy sources.

Referring to there is shown an illustrative remote illumination system that includes an illumination node communicatively coupled to a remote sensing device which in turn is communicatively coupled to a remote detector . An illuminator is housed within the remote illuminator node that illuminates the area near the illuminator . The illumination node is communicatively coupled to remote sensing device which is communicatively coupled to remote detector . When the remote detector detects motion a detection message is generated that is communicated to the remote sensing device using a wireless communication protocol. The remote sensing device includes a camera having a field of view and a remote sensing wireless communications module that receives the detection message from the remote detector. The remote sensing device then determines whether to generate an illumination message. For example the illumination message may be generated when it is dark or there is a power outage or other such event that would require illuminating the area near the illuminator and within the field of view of the remote sensing device camera.

The remote illumination node includes a remote illumination housing a wireless network interface module a processor the illuminator and a battery electrically coupled to a charge circuit . In the illustrative embodiment the charge circuit is electrically coupled to a solar panel . The wireless network interface module is communicatively coupled to the remote sensing device . The processor receives the illumination instruction to illuminate a nearby area when motion is detected by the remote detector . The illuminator is operatively coupled to the processor and illuminates a nearby area when the illuminator receives the illumination instruction. The illuminator may remain on until another illumination instruction is received that instructs the illuminator to turn off. The battery powers the illuminator the processor and the wireless network interface module

Referring to there is shown a remote detection node communicatively coupled to remote sensing device which communicates with remote illuminator . The remote detection node houses a motion or event detector that detects motion in the field of view of the remote sensing device . When motion is detected by the remote detection node a detection message is generated and communicated to the remote sensing device . The area near the illuminator is illuminated when the detection message generated by the remote detection node is received by the remote sensing device and the remote sensing device determines that an illumination instruction must be generated and communicated to the remote illuminator node . The illuminator may remain on until another illumination instruction is received that instructs the illuminator to turn off.

The remote detection node includes a housing a wireless network interface module communicatively coupled to the remote sensing device a detector a processor and a battery . The battery is electrically coupled to a charge circuit which is electrically coupled to a solar panel . The motion or event detector is operatively coupled to the processor and detects motion in the field of view of the camera corresponding to the remote sensing device . The detector generates a detection message when motion is detected. The detection message is communicated wirelessly to the remote sensing device . The battery powers the detector the processor and the wireless network interface module.

By way of example and not of limitation the illuminator and may include a low power infrared or visible LED or laser output. Additionally the illustrative detector and may include an infrared detector RF based motion sensor a vibration based motion sensor a light beam based presence sensor or an optically based motion detection module e.g. camera that includes image processing .

In operation a person walking across the detection field of the illustrative motion or event detector and would be detected. When it is dark the illustrative remote sensing devices and sends a signal to the illuminator and respectively to illuminate a nearby area. The signal to the illuminator may be sent after a specific delay time that models the time required for the illumination instruction generated by the remote sensing device to be sent received and acted upon. The illuminator and then illuminates the scene for a particular period of time that allows the remote sensing device and respectively to complete its image acquisition.

In another embodiment a day night sensor automatically turns on the illuminator when motion is detected at night time and then sends a message to the remote sensing device. In yet another embodiment the detector and includes an infrared detector having a low power design system that is excited by incoming infrared energy. The microprocessor and network interface module execute a low power sleep mode until a motion detection event. A hardware interrupt mechanism may be used to wake the microprocessor and network interface module from the sleep modes.

The motion or event detector and may be based on other technologies such as a laser based trip line vibration sensors RF based motion sensors optically based motion sensors or sound sensors. Each of these types of sensors is aimed at detecting an event of interest that is to trigger further sensing by way of illuminated imaging.

The illustrative illuminator and utilizes an infrared LED or other modern low power illumination technology that generates the necessary light output. The LED or laser based illumination may operate in visible or infrared bands depending on the imaging application. The microcontroller manages activation of the illumination so that power consumption is minimized. The techniques for minimizing power consumption include minimizing duty cycle by both the total time the illumination is on and by using PWM to modulate total power to the system.

The illustrative solar panel provides electricity converted from solar energy to the charge circuit . The charge circuit manages charging the battery from the available solar energy and distributes power to the other hardware components. Additionally the system may operate using an external non solar power energy source.

The remote sensing device may also incorporate a mechanical device or other such devices for changing the camera s field of view within a larger field of regard. Each motion or event detector and or illuminator and may be associated with a position of the camera within this larger field of regard. A field of regard includes the area covered by the sensor or detector when pointing to all mechanically possible positions. When a sense event message such as the detection message is received by the remote sensing device the camera may then adjust its field of view within the field of regard that is associated with one of the motion or event detector and or illuminator and . This mechanism further extends the total field of coverage of the surveillance system substantially.

In the illustrative embodiments of the remote system presented herein a networked system includes one or more endpoints and a camera system with node capable viewing the desired field of regard. Each endpoint may include a solar panel solar charging system internal battery low power wireless communications interface microcontroller daylight sensor motion detection sensor such as PIR or low power illumination module such as LED.

Referring to there is shown an illustrative autonomous method for managing and controlling the remote sensing devices. The method is initiated at block where the smartphone operating system boot sequence is modified so that the operating system will automatically start from a full unpowered state i.e. battery dead state without requiring a user screen interaction. Alternatively the microcontroller turns on the smartphone. More specifically smartphones include a bootloader program that is responsible for starting the operating system as well as some peripherals such as the battery charging system. The bootloader program is capable of detecting when power is applied to the phone via the USB port. Normally phones require an external user input e.g. press power button in order to boot the operating system. In the illustrative method presented herein the bootloader program is modified so that a power input will start the operating system at any time power is available without any user input.

This automatic boot from poweroff is achieved as follows When the device is fully powered off pressing the power key or applying power via the USB cable will trigger a section of code called u boot . This code is part of the Android operating system framework adapted to a specific phone. The u boot code determines the reason for power up. If the reason was the power key press a normal Android boot is initiated. If the USB was the reason the then operating system normally boots to a charge only mode. A modification to this u boot code causes the phone to boot to Android no matter the reason for the power up i.e. in both USB connect and button press cases .

In some Android systems a power off via power button does not completely power down the phone but instead places Android into a low power state. In this case the u boot logic does not execute when the power button or USB input is triggered. Instead a system level executable is in control of the phone. This system level executable also includes logic for entering a charge only state upon USB input. The present invention also modifies the logic in this system level executable so that the USB input will boot Android avoiding a charge only state.

The specific location and mechanism for the operating system phone to decide whether to boot to Android or remain in a charge only state may vary from specific phone hardware platform. However the basic mechanism can be found and one skilled in the art can see that that logic can be similarly modified even in hardware platforms that partition the logic differently. For example in an alternate embodiment the smartphone may be modified to connect the user power switch to the microcontroller and the microcontroller firmware may then control the user power switch to turn on the smartphone thereby eliminating the need to modify the bootloader.

A second part of the present invention relating to automatic start of the application includes automatically launching the MNode application upon operating system reboot. This is achieved by the MNodeApp registering to have itself launched when the Android ACTION BOOT COMPLETED intent is broadcast when the Android boot process is complete .

The method then proceeds to block where a software module is installed on the remote sensing device. More particularly a remote sensing device software module or application is installed and executed on the smartphone. The remote sensing device software module provides all required functions for operation as a presented herein.

The method then proceeds to block where the remote sensing software module registers with the smartphone operating system in such a way that the remote sensing module will be automatically started anytime the operating system is started.

At block the method then proceed with the remote sensing software module initiating wireless communications by opening an illustrative built in cellular network communications channel an illustrative built in Wi Fi network communications channel or other such communications channel according to the configuration defined by the smartphone and the remote sensing software module.

In operation the MNode is configured by an end user or manufacturer to utilize either a Wi Fi or cellular network. This is achieved by the user connecting to the system via USB2 or Bluetooth. This interface allows the user to select the Wi Fi or cellular interface and to configure the interface e.g. enter Wi Fi SSID Passwords.

The method then proceeds to block where the remote sensing software module is configured to automatically register the remote sensing device with the illustrative web application server over a Local Area Network with the illustrative Wi Fi network communications channel. Additionally the illustrative remote sensing software module is configured to automatically register the remote sensing device over a Wide Area Network such as the Internet with the illustrative built in cellular communications channel. The registration process establishes communications between the remote sensing software module and the selected web application server.

Upon deployment the MNode uses the designated network to communicate to the web application server which is running at a fixed IP address. This allows the MNode to become part of the monitoring network without having a fixed IP address and this ability to operate without the MNode fixed IP is critical to operating on a cellular network. This architecture also has the additional advantage of not requiring any firewall or router configuration modifications in order for the MNode to operate on LANs that have a firewall router between the LAN on the Internet.

Once registered with the WebApp Server the MNode requests a configuration to be downloaded that includes the program parameters for the MNodeApp including when to trigger pictures when to upload data how often or under what conditions to log data which events to notify user etc.

At block the remote sensing software module requests a configuration from the web application server which controls the operation of the remote sensing software module including logging of data and images alerts and notifications and periodic upload of data to at least one web application server.

One illustrative programmable parameter of the MNode includes the heartbeat period which is the length of time the MNode will wait to contact the WebApp server again. Since the MNode is not required to have a fixed IP address the architecture is that the MNode contacts the WebApp server in order for any communications to take place.

The heartbeat is a programmable schedule at which the MNode contacts the WebApp server in order to receive messages pending from the WebApp server and to upload any data pending to be uploaded from MNode to server. In typical remote sensing systems the server contacts the remote nodes to establish communications. The heartbeat architecture of the present invention provides several advantages over prior art including a does not require remote node to have fixed IP address or any other fixed address b simplifies the WebApp server in not having to maintain list of active devices until those devices first contact the WebApp c provides enhanced security from denial of service and other network level attacks on the remote node.

The heartbeat schedule in the MNode is programmable and includes two levels of communications frequency. A first frequency short heartbeat is a higher frequency of communications and is used once the MNode contacts the WebApp server and finds a message pending. This short heartbeat is used until a timeout period has been reached heartbeat timeout at which time the MNode reverts to a second longer heartbeat frequency long heartbeat . This scheme allows a beneficial tradeoff between system responsiveness and power consumption the long heartbeat allows lower system duty cycles while the short heartbeat allows responsive user interaction with the system. In an alternative embodiment these heartbeats may be modified dynamically based on time of day user interaction or other factors in order to further optimize the tradeoff between power consumption and system responsiveness.

Another known problem with distributed and networked systems includes registering the device with the server or other nodes so that that new device becomes known to the system. This registration may also include initialization procedures and data that may be required for the new remote node to properly operate as part of the network. Traditionally this is performed by an external process for the server to know about the node such as entering a serial number or network address. In the present invention the reverse communications architecture along with the heartbeat mechanism are used to simplify the provisioning. An MNode coming from the factory or from a virgin state transitions to an active state by sensing a power input or other means . Once in this active state the MNode will use the heartbeat mechanism described above to contact the server. If this is the first time the MNode has contacted the web application server a provisioning process is triggered whereby the web application server provisions that device into the network and thereby enables subsequent communications and management of the node by the web application server. This method of automated provisioning simplifies the process and removes the burden from the user of configuring a node into the network.

Once the web application server initiates the provisioning process with the newly discovered MNode additional provisioning steps can easily be included such as updating the MNode with the latest firmware revisions and configuring the device to the proper initial state.

The method then proceeds to block where the remote sensing software module disposed on the smartphone controller or the combination thereof determines whether to enter a hibernate mode or state. In the hibernate state the smartphone phone shuts itself off and the illustrative controller firmware module removes power input from the smartphone. The hibernate mode includes an extreme low power state that can be entered and exited via user input from the USB2. By way of example and not of limitation the hibernate mode is used to ship the unit from the factory to the user so that battery is not significantly discharged during this transition when no power input is available.

By way of example and not of limitation the microcontroller issues a reboot p command to the phone via the ADB shell connection this powers off the smartphone. The microprocessor then cuts power to the smartphone and then enters sleep mode itself but ensures that the USART stays active. For example every eight seconds the smartphone wakes up via a watchdog alarm and checks the serial port for the wakeup command and checks if power was applied also triggering a wakeup. When the appropriate instruction is received the microprocessor restores power to the phone. By way of example and not of limitation a Boot to Android firmware mode may be installed in the phone which causes the phone to boot up and start running the illustrative MNodeApp. Alternatively the microcontroller controls the phone power switch in order to boot the phone and start the MNodeApp. Subsequently the microprocessor resumes normal operations.

The method then proceeds to decision diamond where a decision is made regarding thermal management. More specifically remote battery solar powered camera monitoring systems may need to provide heating in order to maintain internal electronics above minimum operating temperatures in the face of lower external ambient temperatures. Heating can represent a significant power requirement for solar battery powered systems in colder climates. A thermal battery technique is used to minimize overall energy consumption while maintaining the required minimum operating temperatures for internal electronics. The remote sensing device includes a method of thermal management that takes advantage of the diurnal cycle and utilizes a thermally insulated electronics enclosure to store thermal energy during periods when solar charging power is more abundant. This stored thermal energy enables maintenance of the internal electronics above minimum operating temperature at a lower overall system energy consumption than would otherwise be possible.

The illustrative algorithm for thermal management uses the internal electronics to measure input power from the solar charging system the current battery states the outside ambient temperature and weather forecast. If the forecast calls for outside ambient temperatures significantly below the minimum operating temperature of the electronics and the solar charging system is providing excess power above what is needed to maintain the batteries at desired operating levels then the thermal management algorithm will divert some of this input electricity to the heating system. The heating system will thereby bring the internal temperature above the minimum operating temperature even up to the maximum operating temperature of the electronics.

With this thermal management method on days where a cold night is coming any excess solar power input is converted to thermal energy and stored in the enclosure electronics by virtue of the insulated enclosure. The system can be further enhanced by increasing the overall thermal mass of the system by including in the enclosure design significant mass of metal or other thermally conductive material to further store the thermal energy.

As the diurnal cycle progresses and the ambient external temperature drops the system will have reduced need to provide heating of the electronics due to thermal mass of the system. This reduces the overall power requirement for the system batteries solar panel capacity .

The illustrative thermal management system may be further enhanced by using an electrically based cooling system such as a peltier device to maintain internal electronics below maximum operating temperatures. In this case the maximum cooling requirement will coincide with the daytime and maximum solar capture period. However the algorithm can be modified in this case to use any excess solar input power to cool the system below the required maximum upper temperature and store the negative thermal energy to provide carry over cooling during periods when there is no excess solar input energy.

The method then proceeds to decision diamond where a determination of frequency logging is made based on bandwidth and power consumption. A key parameter in a remote telemetry system is the utilization of both power and bandwidth for communications. Many aspects such as the data logging frequency are user programmable and include a software function for providing automated bandwidth and power estimation in order to guide user expectations and programming of the system.

In the illustrative embodiment the bandwidth estimator includes a programmable upload parameter. This parameter determines how often logged data is uploaded to the server. The system also includes user programmable data logging statements. The data logging statements include the type of data to be logged e.g. analog value image and the frequency of logging. The bandwidth estimator first calculates the amount of data that is expected to be logged during a given bandwidth usage period e.g. month . The bandwidth estimator then inspects the currently programmed upload frequency. These values are combined to provide an estimate of the network bandwidth required during a given bandwidth usage period.

Some data logging can be programmed to occur based on external events e.g. capture image when there is motion detected . In this case the bandwidth estimator uses a fixed background frequency for that type of event X times per day . This estimate then generates an expected amount of event driven logged data that can be added to the scheduled data estimate.

The normal operation of the device is to remain in sleep mode unless there is an event driven action e.g. data logging or a schedule driven event e.g. logged data . Power consumption in sleep mode is significantly less than when the unit is awake to process an event. The power estimator also operates on the scheduled and event driven program settings of the device. Each scheduled or event driven program is assigned a processing time required to take that action. For example the time to wake up take and store an image go back to sleep. The power consumption of the device during this operation is known to the system for both sleep and processing states. There may be different power consumption values for different processing states e.g. taking picture vs. logging data value . The total time required for all programmed and event driven actions is compared to a given time period e.g. per hour to determine a duty cycle. This duty cycle represents the percent of time the system spends at each power consumption level. Thus the total power consumption is estimated for the given programmed regime.

The method then proceeds to decision diamond where the alarm verification process is initiated. Alarm verification refers to the process of having an alarm associated with a first sensor e.g. motion detector triggered by having detected a particular event e.g. motion and then proceeds to verify the event by using another sensor e.g. a camera to take a picture at the same time that the alarm was triggered. The illustrative example of alarm verification in a perimeter security system provides automatic alarm verification without requiring user communication or network traffic. More specifically the MNode may be configured to have at least one perimeter intrusion sensors such as passive infrared PIR infrared IR beams fence line vibration sensors or other sensor that is capable of detection an event of interest such as heat motion or sound.

More generally event evaluation is performed at decision diamond . Events are conditions that are periodically evaluated and result in action or alert. An action refers to starting or stopping a process. An alert refers to a notification that is sent to a particular user group or autonomous monitoring entity. Event evaluation entails reading the most current sensor values looking at programmed event alarm specifications determining the true events and or alarms associated therewith and taking the prescribed actions. In this illustrative embodiment the alarm verification is a species or type of the more general event evaluation process.

For example when the MNode receives the signal over the wireless sensor network from any of the attached perimeter intrusion sensors it automatically collects one or more images or video clips of the region covered by the intrusion sensor. The illustrative collected images are configured to be processed by the MNode software application to detect visual objects of interest e.g. human or vehicle. The MNode software application may use any of a number of known algorithms for video motion detection object detection or other visual event detection by means of the powerful phone processor in order to carry out this visual detection onboard the phone. A positive detection results in a confirmed alarm that is then communicated to the user as an intrusion alarm. A lack of detection indicates that the intrusion sensor provided a false alarm.

Typical intrusion sensors such as PIR often have very high false alarm rates i.e. a signal when there is no event of interest. This method of automatic visual alarm verification or event evaluation reduces the false alarms that the system user sees. By performing the processing for this event evaluation or alarm verification on the MNode the process also reduces network traffic by avoiding sending of alarms or images that have not been verified.

Referring now to there is shown a perspective view of an illustrative enclosure. In there is shown a top view of the illustrative enclosure. The illustrative enclosure is configured to receive a smartphone that is electrically coupled to a smartphone connection . A microcontroller is proximate to the smartphone and two auxiliary batteries . The enclosure also includes a first connector for power input from an illustrative solar panel. Additionally the enclosure includes a second connector that provides a USB for a hardwire connection to the microcontroller .

The auxiliary battery is electrically coupled to the power management module and illustrative solar panels not shown . The solar panels charge the auxiliary battery which then charges the battery in smartphone .

The enclosure also houses the thermistor cooler and heater elements. This enclosure seals these components from the environment and provides an appropriate thermal environment which can be temperature controlled to maintain internal temperatures within allowable range in the face of ambient temperature fluctuations. The enclosure is fabricated from materials that do not attenuate RF signals in the bands used by cellular Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC and wireless sensor networks.

Additionally the enclosure incorporates one or more optically transparent windows . The smartphone is mounted in the enclosure such that the field of view passes through the enclosure window .

An additional optional camera or other such sensor may be mounted in the same enclosure or a separate enclosure . The optional camera or sensor communicates with the smartphone via wireless Wi Fi Bluetooth or USB. The illustrative sensor includes a wireless thermal infrared TIR or a passive infrared PIR sensor that can also be combined with a remote wireless illumination node. The illumination node can be powered by a battery a solar panel or the combination thereof as described herein. The illumination node is a low power node that illuminates the vicinity surrounding the node location.

Referring to there is shown a screenshot for an illustrative dashboard that logs data for the remote sensing system described above. The dashboard includes an image or video captured by a camera associated with the remote sensing device. In addition to the location of the remote sensing device being provided the dashboard also includes power information device and network information . Additionally various system alarms are presented on the right hand side of the user interface. At the bottom of the page a chronological data log is provided that includes various annotations and recordings.

The illustrative remote sensing device system and method described a smartphone programmed for remote operation that is housed in an environmentally controlled housing. The illustrative smartphone includes a microprocessor non volatile storage an integrated camera an integrated and or modular battery and at least one wired or wireless interfaces such as a point to point interface LAN interface a WAN interface or any combination thereof.

Additionally the remote sensors may be connected via the wired or wireless interfaces. Illustrative remote sensors include transducers and smart sensors. These remote sensors may provide input or output of analog or discrete values via connected transducers switches relays and other such communication paths.

The remote sensing system also optionally includes one or more batteries that are housed in the environmentally controlled housing. An optional input for external power from a mains or solar panel or other source is managed by a battery charging circuit which recharges both the phone and any auxiliary batteries to maintain charge levels from external power inputs.

In yet another illustrative embodiment the remote sensing system includes a networked system comprising one or more endpoints and a camera system node capable viewing the desired field of regard. The endpoints each comprise a solar panel solar charging system internal battery low power wireless communications interface microcontroller daylight sensor motion detection sensor such as PIR and a low power illumination module such as LED.

For example the endpoint collects power from the solar panel and stores it in the battery. The battery provides power to the other system elements. The motion detection sensor signals the microprocessor when motion is detected. Upon motion detection the microprocessor sends a message over the low power wireless communications interface to the camera system. Upon receiving the message the camera initiates an image capture of either still images or video sequence. If the endpoint s daylight sensor indicates that it is dark then the endpoint illuminates its area using the illumination module so that the camera captures an illuminate image.

In a further illustrative embodiment the remote sensing system includes a camera system node that includes a low power wireless communications interface enabling communication between the camera and the endpoints. The camera system may comprise a fixed camera or a moveable camera pan tilt zoom .

Additionally an illustrative remote sensing method is embodied in a remote sensing application that communicates with the associated sensors cameras of the remote sensing system. The illustrative software application may be configured based on the presence of and or sensed values from the attached sensors. The illustrative software application and method handles the reading of the attached sensors cameras storage and timestamp of captured data local data processing based on programmed configuration issuing alarms to remote users per the configuration uploading captured data to remote site per the programmed configuration and controlling sensors per the remote commands or programmed configuration.

An illustrative apparatus is also described that includes a smartphone housed in an environmentally controlled housing that includes at least one sensor for detecting internal temperature of the enclosed phone and electronics a cooling device for cooling the internal enclosure and electronics e.g. as a Peltier cooler a heating device for heating the internal enclosure and electronics e.g. as a Peltier or resistive heater a comparator circuit for comparing sensed temperature to stored desired min max temperature ranges and controlling heater cooler devices to maintain an internal temperature within required ranges.

The remote sensing system described above satisfies a plurality of key requirements that enables remote sensing system to support a variety of different features. The feature may be deployed at a low cost consume low power and have ability to support the local storage of data operate on familiar software development platforms provide multiples modes of communication support an integrated data framework and support user mobility.

Low cost is a key requirement because a given application may require hundreds or thousands of remote monitoring sites to implement an application. Total system cost including hardware software development communications installation and maintenance are critical to the applicability of the solution.

Low power is also a key requirement. Power supplies including solar batteries and cabling all grow the size weight and cost as a function of the power requirements of the device.

Another key requirement for remote sensing is the ability to provide local processing of data because remote communications may be intermittent have variable latencies and incur communications costs. Some remote monitoring and or control applications require data to be logged or acted upon within a fixed interval of time. Therefore there is a requirement that the remote sensing system have the ability to perform some processing of the IO data independent of any wide area communications or other system elements. Local processing of data also allows the sensing node to act based in sensed values for example only record images when motion sensor is triggered. Visual alarm verification onboard the smartphone can significantly reduce mobile communications costs providing a significant commercial advantage.

An ability to provide local storage of data is another requirement for remote sensing. Remote communications to the sensing system may be intermittent. To ensure continuous monitoring and collection of data it is necessary for the remote sensing system to have local storage of data. Since a remote sensing system may collect many channels of data over long periods of time it is beneficial to have a substantial amount of local storage capability.

Yet another requirement for remote sensing is a simple flexible well known software development platform because some applications require specific logic to operate on the remote sensing device to implement the required data collection control or alarming functions. In order to facilitate development of this logic at the lowest cost it would be beneficial to support a remote sensing platform that utilizes a widely available software platform for development and deployment of applications.

Multiple modes of communication are another requirement for remote sensing. In order to provide communications of data from the remote site to the user or central operations and in order to provide remote control of devices managed by the remote sensing system a communications capability is required as part of the remote sensing system. For reliability and ease of deployment it would be beneficial to provide multiple modes of communication supported e.g. Wi Fi Cellular Satellite . Wireless communications are strongly preferred over wired in order to achieve simplicity and low cost installation and maintenance.

A further remote sensing requirement includes integrated analog digital and image and video data. Modern applications require both analog and digital IO capabilities as well as still and video data. To achieve the goals of simplicity and low cost it is necessary to have a single integrated platform that can support the IO and processing of analog digital IO as well as video and still imagery.

Furthermore mobility is another requirement of remote sensing because some applications e.g. transportation require remote sensing system to move with the device vehicle or environment being sensed. It would therefore be beneficial for the remote sensing system to be capable of being used in fixed applications mobile applications or any combination thereof.

It is to be understood that the detailed description of illustrative embodiments are provided for illustrative purposes. The scope of the claims is not limited to these specific embodiments or examples. Therefore various elements details execution of any methods and uses can differ from those just described or be expanded on or implemented using technologies not yet commercially viable and yet still be within the inventive concepts of the present disclosure. The scope of the invention is determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

