---

title: System and method for fish finding using a sonar device and a remote computing device
abstract: The present invention generally relates to a fish finding sonar system. Specifically, this invention relates to a sonar device pairing with a remote computing device to provide information to an angler about what is under the surface of the water. Embodiments of the present invention include a sonar device and a remote computing device configured to allow the sonar device to wirelessly communicate with the remote computing device and the remote computing device to connect to a database to register and receive information about real-time fishing hotspots.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09360553&OS=09360553&RS=09360553
owner: 
number: 09360553
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141204
---
The present invention generally relates to a fish finding sonar system. Specifically this invention relates to a sonar device pairing with a remote computing device to provide information to an angler about what is under the surface of the water. Certain embodiments of the present invention include a sonar device and a remote computing device configured to allow the sonar device to wirelessly communicate with the remote computing device and the remote computing device to connect to a database to register and receive information about real time fishing hotspots.

For centuries fishermen have been looking for ways to improve their chances for catching fish. Over the years there have been developments in lures rods reels and a variety of other equipment that have made fishermen more successful. Over the past two decades however fish finding sonar systems have become increasingly available and fishermen have taken advantage of the benefits those systems offer.

Fish finding sonar systems are available in a variety of forms and functionalities which give fisherman a broad choice as to what product fits their specific needs. In more recent times fish finding sonar systems that can pair the fish finding sonar device together with the numerous remote computing devices that fishermen and others already use every day have become available to the public. Such an arrangement allows a fisherman to utilize an already existing display screen rather than having to have one that is dedicated to the fish finding sonar alone.

These fish finding sonar devices currently available however do have limitations specifically in relation to the fish finding sonar devices that pair a sonar fish finder with a remote computing device. Currently available fish finding sonar systems do not offer the capacity for fishermen to track real time fishing hotspots. Such a limitation can decrease a fisherman s ability to successfully catch fish as the fisherman is unaware where fish are actually located and therefore must use valuable time to search for the fish.

Further currently available fish finding sonar systems require that sonar data be processed and manipulated by the remote computing devices. This requires the remote computing device to be configured to receive a constant or near constant stream of raw data from a sonar means. The remote computing device in this configuration is then utilizing a significant portion of its resources receiving data communications and processing raw data into useful data. This utilization of resources lowers the capacity of the remote computing device to perform other tasks and also works to diminish battery life which is a constant issue with remote computing devices.

Therefore there is a need in the art for a fish finding sonar system and method that does not require the utilization of significant resources on a remote computing device in order to provide useful sonar data to the remote computing device. These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be explained and will become obvious to one skilled in the art through the summary of the invention that follows.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a system and method for fish finding using sonar and a remote computing device whereby the resources of the remote computing device are not tasked by the process.

The foregoing summary of the present invention with the preferred embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention. It should be understood and obvious to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention thus described may be further modified without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention generally relates to a fish finding sonar system. Specifically this invention relates to a sonar device capable of being paired with a remote computing device to provide information to an angler about what is under the surface of the water. Embodiments of the present invention include a sonar device and a remote computing device configured to allow the sonar device to wirelessly communicate with the remote computing device and the remote computing device to connect to a remote computing system to register and receive information about real time fishing hotspots.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a system for fish finding may include a sonar device and a remote computing device. The system is designed to assist a fisherman in finding fish that are below the surface of the water by communicating information collected by the sonar device to the remote computing device. In addition to or in lieu of sonar data the sonar device may be configured to collect one or more forms of information. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that components of the system could be configured to collect a variety of different information and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any form of collectable information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system is configured to assist a fisherman in finding fish that are below the surface of the water by communicating information collected by the sonar device to a remote computing device. In a preferred embodiment the method may be accomplished by collecting information from the one or more sensors present on or in the sonar device and processing that information on board the sonar device. That processed information may then be communicated wirelessly to a remote computing device where the information can be displayed on the viewing screen of the remote computing device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a sonar device may be comprised of a housing one or more sensors a processor a wireless communication means and a power source. Optionally the sonar device may further include a storage device an indicator light an auditory signal or any combination thereof. The one or more sensors of the sonar device may include but are not limited to a thermometer a speed sensor an accelerometer or any combination thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of sensors that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of sensor.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device includes a housing. The housing is configured to retain the sonar sensor processor wireless communication means power source and any other additional components. In a preferred embodiment the housing is waterproof and constructed of plastic so that it will float efficiently at the surface of the water. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous sizes shapes and materials that could be utilized for the housing in the embodiments of the present invention and those embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those options.

Referring to an illustration of an embodiment of the sonar device of the present invention is shown. The sonar device includes a sonar sensor that sends and receives sonar waves to detect objects in the water. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous sonar sensors that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any sonar sensor.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device includes a processor that is communicatively connected to the sonar sensor. The connection allows the sensor to provide raw sonar sensor information to the processor. The processor is configured to compute the raw sonar sensor information received from the sonar sensor and translate that information into a usable format. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous usable formats that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any usable format.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device includes a means of wireless communication. The wireless communication means is connected to the processor so that the processed information can be transmitted to the remote computing device. In a preferred embodiment the wireless communications means may be Bluetooth Low Energy BLE . In other embodiments wireless communications means may include but are not limited to WI FI Bluetooth ZigBee ANT cellular means e.g. CDMA GSM or any combination thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous wireless communication means that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any wireless communication means.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device includes a power source. The power source provides power to the sonar sensor processor and wireless communication means as well as any additional components. In a preferred embodiment the power source may be a rechargeable a battery. In certain embodiments the battery may be rechargeable through a wired means. Alternatively the battery may be recharged through a wireless means. In certain embodiments the power source may be replaceable. In other embodiments the power source may feature solar recharging or other renewable energy means including but not limited to recharging through salinity and temperature sensors. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous power sources that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any power source.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device includes an accelerometer. In one embodiment the accelerometer may be configured to activate the sonar device when the accelerometer detects that the sonar device has been cast out on the line of a fishing rod. In yet another embodiment the accelerometer may be configured to alert the fisherman that there is a fish at the end of the line through detection of sudden or rapid movements such as those generated when a fish tugs or otherwise pulls on a fishing line attached to a housing containing or integrated with the accelerometer. In certain embodiments another possible configuration could be to incorporate the accelerometer into a fishing bobber so that functionality of the device would be to detect whether a fish was on the line. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous functions that could be accomplished by the accelerometer and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device may include a storage device. In one embodiment the storage device may be communicatively connected to the processor in order to provide for the logging of processed information. In another embodiment the storage unit may also store data in case of a disconnection of wireless communication between the sonar device and the remote computing device. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous storage devices including hard disk drives solid state drives random access memory and flash memory that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any storage device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device may include a thermometer. In a preferred embodiment a thermometer may sense the temperature of water and or the air. In another embodiment the thermometer could be utilized as recharging means for the power source. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous thermometers that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any thermometer.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device may include a speed sensor. In a preferred embodiment the speed sensor may be a propeller attached to the housing that could measure the speed of the water when the sonar device is tethered or pulled by the fisherman. One of the ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous speed sensors that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any speed sensor.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device may include a conductivity sensor. In a preferred embodiment the conductivity sensor would sense the salinity of the water in which the sonar device is floating. With the salinity of the water known the input and or output of the sonar sensor could be adjusted appropriately to account for the differing speeds of a sonar wave in fresh versus salt water. In another embodiment the conductivity sensor could be utilized as recharging means for the power source. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous forms and functions that conductivity sensor might take on and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those forms and functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device may include an indicator light to enable a fisherman to more easily identify the sonar device in the water. In one embodiment the indicator light could be activated and deactivated remotely from a remote computing device. In another embodiment the indicator light could flash when the sonar device becomes disconnected from the remote computing device. In yet another preferred embodiment the indicator light could be configured to signal a low battery warning. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous forms and functions that indicator light might take on and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those forms and functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device may include an auditory signal to assist in locating a sonar device when visual contact has been lost. In certain embodiments the auditory signal could be activated and deactivated remotely from a remote computing device. In another embodiment the auditory signal could sound when the sonar device becomes disconnected from the remote computing device. In yet another preferred embodiment the auditory signal could be configured to indicate a low battery. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous forms and functions that the auditory signal might take on and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those forms and functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device may include a wireless communication means and a viewing means. Examples of remote computing devices include but are not limited to smartphones tablet PCs and laptops. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous remote computing devices that may be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any remote computing device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device includes a means of wireless communication. The wireless communication means allows the remote computing device to have bidirectional communication with the sonar device. In a preferred embodiment the wireless communications means may be Bluetooth Low Energy BLE . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous wireless communication means that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any wireless communication means.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication means of the remote computing device might include access to one or more local area networks LAN or wide area networks WAN e.g. the Internet . Access to remote networks such as the Internet could allow the remote computing device to upload information collected from the sonar device to the remote computing system where it could be processed for use by other fisherman and or stored for other uses.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device includes a viewing screen. The viewing screen allows the remote computing device to display the information collected by the sonar device to the fisherman.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device does not include a viewing screen. In a preferred embodiment such a remote computing device could be an additional sonar device or series of sonar devices that are communicatively linked together. The sonar devices would then collectively communicate with another remote computing device with a viewing screen e.g. smartphone to generate a larger sample of information than would one sonar device on its own.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device might include a global position system GPS . In a preferred embodiment the GPS could allow a fisherman to locate fishing hotspots or record locations identified by the sonar device as potential fishing hotspots. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous functions that could be accomplished by GPS and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device might include a camera. In a preferred embodiment the camera could be used to allow a fisherman to photograph the fish and or the fishing location. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous forms and functions that the camera might take on and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those forms and functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system herein described is configured to allow a fisherman to more easily locate and catch fish. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the sonar device is wirelessly paired with the remote computing device. The fisherman could then secure a fishing line to the sonar device and cast it into the water. The sonar device sensing that it was cast e.g. through the use of an onboard accelerometer or through rapid change in the signal strength between the communications means of the sonar device and the communication means of the remote computing device could then begin to collect information. Information including but not limited to the presence of fish bottom depth water temperature and air temperature would be collected and processed on board the sonar device. The processed information would then be communicated to the remote computing device via a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE connection.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device is configured to process the data from one or more sensors on board the sonar device. In this configuration the sonar device is configured to handle processing of the raw sensor data from the one or more sensors into a format usable by one or more remote computing devices and encode the information for transmission to such remote computing devices in order to minimize the bandwidth used by the communications means of the sonar device and the various remote computing devices when sending the information to the remote computing device s . In a preferred embodiment on board data processing could be used to assist the sonar device in achieving more efficient power consumption. The sonar device would use power more efficiently by processing information from the one or more sensors on board the device. More specifically the sonar device could be configured to enter a low energy mode until sensor activity is detected. In a preferred embodiment the fisherman would be able to set the threshold level that is required before the sonar device becomes fully active for one or more of the one or more sensors present on the sonar device. When sensor activity reaches or exceeds the determined threshold level the sonar device exits lower energy mode and would begin to process the sensor data and communicate information to the remote computing device.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device could receive processed information from the sonar device via the communication means on the remote computing device. The information received from the sonar device could then be displayed on the viewing screen of the remote computing device. The viewing screen could display information including but not limited to the depth of the water the presence of fish the size of the fish present the depth of the fish the temperature of the water as well as other features present in the water. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of information that could be displayed on the viewing screen and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with the display of any type of information. In a preferred embodiment the remote computing device could pair to multiple sonar devices dynamically concurrently or any combination thereof.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the sonar device may be used for synthetic aperture sonar imaging. In a preferred embodiment the sonar device could be pulled in some fashion including but not limited to by hand by fishing reel or by boat over an area of water to collect data over that area. The collected data could then be analyzed to create a continuous sonar image of the area over which the sonar device was pulled.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the embodiment that includes synthetic aperture sonar imaging requires that the sonar device be pulled at a knowable speed. In one embodiment of the present invention the speed at which the sonar device is being pulled may be calculated based upon the rate at which the sonar device is being reeled in. In this embodiment the reeling rate may be determined in a number of ways including but not limited to a speedometer on the reel or calculation based upon the cranking ratio of the reel. In another embodiment the speed of the sonar device may be measured by a flow sensor on the sonar device. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous means by which the speed of the sonar device could be calculated and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any of those means.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing device may be used to track and locate fishing hotspots through the provision and receipt of information to from a remote computing system. In a preferred embodiment the remote computing system comprises a server communicatively connected to one or more LANs or WANs and thereby communicatively connected to one or more remote computing devices. In certain embodiments the remote computing system may receive information including but not limited to location information e.g. GPS coordinates cellular triangulation data manually entered location information the presence of fish as identified by one or more sensors associated with one or more sonar devices water temperature weather conditions time and date and pictures. In a preferred embodiment such information is provided by the remote computing device the sonar device or any combination thereof.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing system could place the information it receives into a central data store e.g. database communicatively connected to the remote computing system. The remote computing system may further be configured to utilize information provided to it from the remote computing devices and sonar devices to generate information regarding various fishing locations. For instance the remote computing system could utilize information received from the aforementioned sources to develop hotspot data identifying whether certain locations are particularly good or poor choices for fishing. This hotspot information may be based on any number of criteria including but not limited to time of day time of year average size of fish water temperature tide fluctuations or any combination thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of data that may be utilized in developing hotspots and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of data.

According to an embodiment of the present invention once the hotspot information is generated the remote computing system may be configured to transmit hotspot information to one or more remote computing devices thereby allowing fishermen to locate in real time the best place to fish. The more information the remote computing system is provided on a location the more confidently the remote computing system can identify locations were other fishermen have had the most successful fishing or sensors have identified the most number of fish fish of a certain size or other criteria associated with a hotspot.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing system may also assist in the recovery of a lost sonar device. In a preferred embodiment the remote computing system would receive a notification from a fisherman that a sonar device has been lost. The remote computing system could then send a notice to other fishermen that are connected to or otherwise utilizing the remote computing system that informs those fishermen of the lost sonar device. If and when the sonar device is found it may be returned to the proper owner based on the unique identification number of the sonar device that is recorded when the sonar device is initially registered with the remote computing system.

Referring to a schematic overview of a remote computing system according to a preferred embodiment is shown. In this embodiment a remote computing system comprises a remote computing device interface a reasoning engine and one or more data stores .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing system includes a remote computing device interface . In a preferred embodiment the remote computing device interface would be an application programming interface API or other interface capable of receiving information from and transmitting information to a remote computing device. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of remote computing device interfaces that might be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of remote computing device interface.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing system employs a reasoning engine . In a preferred embodiment the reasoning engine receives and analyzes various data points from sources including but not limited to one or more data stores a sonar device one or more remote computing device interfaces and the internet to generate hotspot information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the reasoning engine determines what points of fishing data are available. Fishing data points may include but are not limited to fish activity water temperature water depth water salinity air temperature weather conditions location and lunar phase. The reasoning engine could then create an independent variable from each available point of fishing data. In a preferred embodiment the reasoning engine would be able to determine what points of fishing data are available from a variety of sources including but not limited to the data store of the remote computing system data collected in real time by one or more sonar devices and the internet.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the reasoning engine can generate an initial base model based upon the available fishing data points. Each available point of fishing data or any subset thereof could be assigned as an independent variable that could be used for the purposes of generating hotspot information. The reasoning engine would generate hotspot information by comparing real time fishing data points to those of the initial base model. As with the initial base model the real time fishing data points could be collected from multiple sources including but not limited to one or more sonar devices and the internet.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote computing system may include one or more data stores configured to store data points and transmit data points to a reasoning engine or a remote computing device interface . In a preferred embodiment the data store would further be configured to log data related to hotspot information generated by the reasoning engine . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of data stores that might be utilized with the remote computing system and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of data store.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method for generating hotspot information is provided. The method is intended to identify predicted fishing trends for given locations to a fisherman. The method is accomplished by analyzing past and present values of various data points and generating hotspot information based upon that analysis. Data points for use in generating hotspot information may include but are not limited to fish activity water temperature water depth water salinity air temperature weather conditions location and lunar phase. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of data points that could be utilized to generate hotspot information and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of data points.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the hotspot information may be logged in a data store for later use and retrieval by the system. In a preferred embodiment the hotspot information would be saved in the data store for future use by the system where historical data could be used to validate or improve upon newly added or received information about one or more hotspots. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous methods for logging hotspot information in a data store and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any such method for logging hotspot information.

The following is an exemplary embodiment of a method of finding fish using a sonar device and a remote computing device as show in . At step the sonar device is prepared for deployment by securing a fishing line to the sonar device.

At step the sonar device is placed into the water. The sonar device can be placed into the water via casting with a fishing rod or deployed by hand.

At step the sonar device will send sonar pulses into the water to detect the presence of fish. The sonar pulses are generally generated by the sonar sensor onboard the sonar device.

At step the sonar device does not detect any fish and goes into a low energy state until the presence of fish is detected. In this low energy state the sonar sensor continues to operate by sending out sonar pulses until such time as fish are detected by the sonar sensor.

At step the sonar device detects the presence of fish and if in low energy mode returns to fully functional state. The sonar sensor continuously sends sonar pulses and creates raw sonar data from any returns. Exiting of the low energy mode may also include activating various other sensors on the sonar device and the processor such that it is actively awaiting the raw sonar data from the sonar sensor.

At step the raw sonar data is received from the sonar sensor by the processor on board the sonar device. The raw sonar data may be received by the processor for instance as a stream of data or in batches. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous ways in which the raw sonar data may be received by the processor and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any form of receiving raw sonar data at the processor.

At step the raw sonar data from the sonar sensor is processed on board the sonar device by the processor. The raw sonar data is processed and encoded to produce processed sonar data in which the various elements of the raw sonar data are converted into useful representations of the relevant information contained in the raw sonar data e.g. number of fish present size of fish identified .

At step the processed sonar data is communicated by the wireless communication means of the sonar device to the wireless communication means of the remote computing device. As noted above the preferred embodiment for a wireless communication means is Bluetooth Low Energy BLE . However the processed sonar data may be transmitted via any form of wireless communication means.

At step the remote computing device has received the processed sonar data and displays the processed sonar data on the display component of the remote computing device. As noted above the remote computing device can take a variety of forms.

At step the process terminates. Alternatively the process can loop back to step until the sonar device is power off or is removed from the water.

The following is an exemplary embodiment of a method for generating hotspot information as shown in . At step the process initiates with the remote computing device receiving processed sonar data from the sonar device.

At step the remote computing device communicates processed sonar data to the remote computing system. The remote computing system is capable of receiving such data from one or more remote computing devices.

At step the remote computing system analyzes the processed sonar data that it has received from one or more remote computing devices. The remote computing system analyzes the data to ascertain what fish spots are the most active and productive based on preconfigured criteria set on the remote computing system.

At step the remote computing system generates hotspot information based upon the analysis of the processed sonar data it received from one or more remote computing devices. The hotspot information could include but is not limited to fishing spot location number and size of fish present water depth temperature and current weather. The data that is collected can be viewed in real time so that a fisherman can get the most current information as to where the best fishing locations are. Additionally the remote computing system can catalog the information that it receives so historical trends can be analyzed by the system in order to develop probabilistic and deterministic analysis of various hotspot locations.

At step the remote computing system communicates the hotspot information to one or more remote computing devices. The delivery of hotspot information can be pushed to various remote computing devices or otherwise requested by various remote computing devices based on search criteria or other request criteria.

At step the process terminates. Alternatively process can continue as long as one or more remote computing devices are in communication with the remote computing system.

The following is an exemplary embodiment of a method for generating hotspot information as shown in . At step the process initiates with the reasoning engine determining what points of fishing data are available. Available data points include but are not limited to the presence of fish water temperature water depth air temperature and location.

At step the reasoning engine creates an independent variable for each of the available fishing data points. The available data points can be the time real time fishing data collected by the sonar device or from historical fishing data logged in a data store.

At step the reasoning engine generates an initial base model. The initial base model can be generated from the real time fishing data collected by the sonar device or the fishing data logged in the data store.

At step the reasoning engine compares the initial base model to real time fishing data collected by the sonar device.

At step the reasoning engine generates hotspot information based on the comparison of the initial base model and the real time fishing data. Portions of the hotspot information may identify and predict fishing trends for fishing locations.

At step the process terminates. The hotspot information that has been generated can be logged in the data store for future reference.

Throughout this disclosure and elsewhere block diagrams and flowchart illustrations depict methods apparatuses i.e. systems and computer program products. Each element of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations as well as each respective combination of elements in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations illustrates a function of the methods apparatuses and computer program products. Any and all such functions depicted functions can be implemented by computer program instructions by special purpose hardware based computer systems by combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions by combinations of general purpose hardware and computer instructions and so on any and all of which may be generally referred to herein as a circuit module or system. 

While the foregoing drawings and description set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Each element in flowchart illustrations may depict a step or group of steps of a computer implemented method. Further each step may contain one or more sub steps. For the purpose of illustration these steps as well as any and all other steps identified and described above are presented in order. It will be understood that an embodiment can contain an alternate order of the steps adapted to a particular application of a technique disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. The depiction and description of steps in any particular order is not intended to exclude embodiments having the steps in a different order unless required by a particular application explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Traditionally a computer program consists of a finite sequence of computational instructions or program instructions. It will be appreciated that a programmable apparatus i.e. computing device can receive such a computer program and by processing the computational instructions thereof produce a further technical effect.

A programmable apparatus includes one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors programmable devices programmable gate arrays programmable array logic memory devices application specific integrated circuits or the like which can be suitably employed or configured to process computer program instructions execute computer logic store computer data and so on. Throughout this disclosure and elsewhere a computer can include any and all suitable combinations of at least one general purpose computer special purpose computer programmable data processing apparatus processor processor architecture and so on.

It will be understood that a remote computing device remote computing system or other computer can include a computer readable storage medium and that this medium may be internal or external removable and replaceable or fixed. It will also be understood that a computer can include a Basic Input Output System BIOS firmware an operating system a database or the like that can include interface with or support the software and hardware described herein.

Embodiments of the system as described herein are not limited to applications involving conventional computer programs or programmable apparatuses that run them. It is contemplated for example that embodiments of the invention as claimed herein could include an optical computer quantum computer analog computer or the like.

Regardless of the type of computer program or computer involved a computer program can be loaded onto a computer to produce a particular machine that can perform any and all of the depicted functions. This particular machine provides a means for carrying out any and all of the depicted functions.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program instructions can be stored in a computer readable memory capable of directing a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner. The instructions stored in the computer readable memory constitute an article of manufacture including computer readable instructions for implementing any and all of the depicted functions.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

The elements depicted in flowchart illustrations and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented as parts of a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these. All such implementations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In view of the foregoing it will now be appreciated that elements of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions program instruction means for performing the specified functions and so on.

It will be appreciated that computer program instructions may include computer executable code. A variety of languages for expressing computer program instructions are possible including without limitation C C Java JavaScript assembly language Lisp and so on. Such languages may include assembly languages hardware description languages database programming languages functional programming languages imperative programming languages and so on. In some embodiments computer program instructions can be stored compiled or interpreted to run on a computer a programmable data processing apparatus a heterogeneous combination of processors or processor architectures and so on. Without limitation embodiments of the system as described herein can take the form of web based computer software which includes client server software software as a service peer to peer software or the like.

In some embodiments a computer enables execution of computer program instructions including multiple programs or threads. The multiple programs or threads may be processed more or less simultaneously to enhance utilization of the processor and to facilitate substantially simultaneous functions. By way of implementation any and all methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. The thread can spawn other threads which can themselves have assigned priorities associated with them. In some embodiments a computer can process these threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the program code.

Unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context the verbs execute and process are used interchangeably to indicate execute process interpret compile assemble link load any and all combinations of the foregoing or the like. Therefore embodiments that execute or process computer program instructions computer executable code or the like can suitably act upon the instructions or code in any and all of the ways just described.

The functions and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art along with equivalent variations. In addition embodiments of the invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the present teachings as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention are well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks include storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the Internet.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description. The invention is capable of myriad modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

