---

title: Three-dimensional stacked structured ASIC devices and methods of fabrication thereof
abstract: A 3D stacked sASIC is provided that includes a plurality of 2D reconfigurable structured structured ASIC (sASIC) levels interconnected through hard-wired arrays of 3D vias. The 2D sASIC levels may contain logic, memory, analog functions, and device input/output pad circuitry. During fabrication, these 2D sASIC levels are stacked on top of each other and fused together with 3D metal vias. Such 3D vias may be fabricated as through-silicon vias (TSVs). They may connect to the back-side of the 2D sASIC level, or they may be connected to top metal pads on the front-side of the 2D sASIC level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09190392&OS=09190392&RS=09190392
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09190392
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140520
---
This non provisional application claims the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 825 385 filed May 20 2013.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Due to continuing improvements in fabrication processes and design tools and to demands for ever greater functionality in packages of limited volume it has become commonplace to design and market application specific integrated circuits hereafter ASICs of great complexity including tens of millions of gates or even more. In view of such demands it has become attractive to consider three dimensional hereafter 3D fabrication techniques because such techniques have a known potential to improve performance and reduce power consumption as well as to reduce package size.

Indeed it is possible with 3D technology to partition functions on different levels enabling a smaller area die with much higher yield to be fabricated separately and stacked at wafer level. 3D technology also enables heterogeneous integration of different device technologies e.g. digital analog RF MEMS and photonics and may allow the use of less costly fabrication processes due to increased logic densities in the overall stack. However one possible drawback is that depending on the 2D technology chosen for individual layers and the 3D assembly processes employed 3D integration could increase the total device fabrication duration and costs.

The costs of fabricating highly complex ASICs and other integrated circuits have in fact driven a further trend toward designing IC platforms that include both standardized building blocks and programmable logic and interconnects. A field programmable gate array FPGA for example reduces non recurring engineering NRE costs because at least some of its application specific functionality is programmed by the user.

Another approach is the structured ASIC hereafter sASIC . The sASIC concept resembles the FPGA concept in that it employs a regular fabric like circuit architecture in pre qualified base array platforms to accelerate turn around times and reduce NRE costs and development risk.

The fabrication sequence for a sASIC uses a one time metal via mask to configure user function into the base array. As with an FPGA the sASIC base array can be pre fabricated before customization and re used across multiple design implementations and it can be produced in significantly shorter time and at a much lower cost than a custom ASIC. The sASIC provides some advantage over FPGAs because it is generally more competitive to custom ASICs in speed power and circuit densities.

As the above described trends converge there is a growing need for new approaches to 3D integration that offer the cost reductions and other advantages of standardized base arrays combined with programmable building blocks.

We have invented a 3D stacked sASIC that includes a plurality of 2D reconfigurable structured sASIC levels interconnected through hard wired arrays of 3D vias. The 2D sASIC levels may contain logic memory analog functions and device input output pad circuitry. During fabrication these 2D sASIC levels are stacked on top of each other and fused together with 3D metal vias. Such 3D vias may be fabricated as through silicon vias TSVs . They may connect to the back side of the 2D sASIC level or they may be connected to top metal pads on the front side of the 2D sASIC level.

We believe that TSVs can be made with low parasitic effects and hence can be implemented at relatively high density. In turn a large number of TSVs with low parasitics facilitates the integration of silicon photonics with sASIC stacks having multiple channels with Si photonics. Through such an approach there can be provided a cluster of sASIC stacks connected through low energy high speed high bandwidth photonic links.

We believe in particular that combining sASICs with TSVs and 3D stacked assembly processes in accordance with the invention can lead to a device that is greater in density than a custom ASIC and highly reconfigurable but that is still faster and more economical to fabricate.

According to a first aspect our invention is embodied in an integrated circuit IC assembly that includes two or more structured ASIC sASIC dies. Each of these sASIC dies contains a plurality of metallization layers and a plurality of via layers that interconnect respective pairs of adjacent metallization layers. The sASIC dies are vertically arranged and interconnected by hard wired vertical vias to form a three dimensional 3D stack. A 3D application specific interconnection pattern is defined in the 3D stack. Some or all of the sASIC dies each include one special via layer that bears a mask programmed pattern of vias. The mask programmed via patterns of all of the special via layers collectively define all mask programmable routing for the 3D application specific interconnection pattern.

We will describe an exemplary embodiment that we have implemented in silicon using SOI Silicon on Insulator CMOS processes. The exemplary embodiment is a 3D stackable 12 mm 12 mm structured ASIC die that has 42K interconnects and that is resource compatible with existing 2D structured ASIC devices of the same size. The exemplary 3D structured ASIC platform was designed and fabricated in our 0.35 m foundry. It includes high density front end of line through silicon vias TSVs that we developed to implement the 3D vertical interconnects as explained below.

A simplified drawing of such a 3D vertical stack is provided in where each of layers . .is a two dimensional die connected to the neighbors above and below it by way of a fixed pattern of 3D interconnects . The three dimensional interconnections are facilitated by an array of through silicon vias TSVs . A ball grid array to which the input and output contacts have been redistributed is shown at the top of the stack.

The basic building block of the 3D stack in our platform consists of a 2D structured ASIC die that uses a one time metal via mask to configure user designs into the silicon. Since each 2D structured ASIC die can be partially pre fabricated before the configuration via layer the die can be produced in significantly shorter time and at a lower cost than custom ASIC die. After each 2D structured ASIC die completes final fabrication it is assembled into a vertical stack and is thereby incorporated in a 3D structured ASIC.

The number of 3D interconnects between the stacked dies is fixed and the respective locations of the 3D interconnects are also fixed. The respective levels in the 3D structured ASIC implementation collectively determine how the 3D interconnects are used as will be explained below. In addition custom die such as memories or analog units can be included in the 3D structured ASIC stack if they adhere to the standardized 3D interconnect pattern.

To extend an existing 2D structured ASIC device architecture to the 3D domain 42K vertical interconnect pads were added to the die to facilitate 3D communication and power delivery. Compromises in the number of 3D interconnects were made to preserve the die size and transistor count of the 2D device. We were able to design the resulting 3D structured ASIC platform so that it would support typical 3D assembly techniques including face to face and face to back stacking using TSVs.

The 2D structured ASIC that is the basis for our 3D design belongs to the ViArray family of structured ASIC base arrays that Sandia National Laboratories developed for its internal 350 nm radiation hardened silicon on insulator SOI foundry. The ViArray logic fabric is based on ViASIC ViaMask technology as described e.g. in ViaMask Data Sheet Standard Metal Library for Configurable SOCs and Structured ASICs available from the viasic.com website the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

To create a structured ASIC platform the master tile is replicated and the resulting base array is connected to an I O pad frame and other pre built mixed signal IP blocks. By IP is meant intellectual property i.e. physically embodied aspects of circuit design that typically include proprietary design information. 

The ViArray structured ASIC platforms that we describe here were designed for the Sandia National Laboratories CMOS7 foundry technology which is a strategically radiation hardened 3.3 Volt 0.35 m SOI Silicon on Insulator CMOS process for custom high reliability digital analog and mixed signal ASICs. It is a 150 mm wafer foundry. CMOS7 is a 24 mask level process with 5 metal layers.

The foundry cross section is illustrated in . The five metal layers of our process are indicated in the figure as metal 1 layer metal 2 layer metal 3 layer metal 4 layer and metal 5 layer . The metal layers overlie an SOI wafer that includes a thinned silicon substrate layer and a buried oxide BOX layer . The device layer includes 270 nm top silicon layer overlain by inter layer dielectric ILD layer . A tungsten plug is shown connecting the metal 1 layer to a through silicon via TSV which extends through the substrate to a back side contact pad . As seen in the figure a shallow trench isolation STI region is formed around the island in the top silicon layer that is penetrated by the TSV.

Adjacent metal layers are interconnected by vias. In particular the via 2 layer connects metal 2 to metal 3 and a layer of top side vias connects metal 5 to the top side pads such as pad .

The section indicated in the figure by reference numeral is fabricated by standard 2D CMOS processing. This section includes metal 1 to metal 5 and conventional aspects of the device layer. The section indicated by reference numeral is where the through silicon vias for 3D interconnection are made by our front end of line FEOL TSV process which will be described in detail below. This section includes the device layer and substrate. Reference numerals and indicate regions respectively including back side pad and top side pad that are fabricated in our post processing step for 3D interconnections.

The 24 mask levels referred to above are required for the standard 2D processing. Four additional masks are required for the 3D specific layers. Those layers include the TSV definition the back side TSV bond pads the top side bond pads and the vias between the top metal layer metal 5 and the top side bond pad.

The configuration of a user design onto a ViArray device occurs at the via 2 layer i.e. between metal 2 and metal 3. The via 2 mask connects power and ground conductors to the appropriate unit cells configures the logic gates inside the unit cell for their respective desired functions and configures the routing tracks to connect the logic gates together. Via 2 connections are also used to configure the I O pads and other IP blocks.

As will be seen below the via 2 mask is also used to define the mask programmable routing for our new 3D structured ASIC.

An example ViArray platform is the design that bears our designation 6M 2D. This platform uses a 12 mm 12 mm die and has 6M transistors. The platform is partitioned into four power domain quadrants. These power domains allow the user to separate designs onto different power supplies implement redundancy or apply power sequencing schemes. The power domains can be merged together in any combination including defining them as a single global power domain. Weak pull down transistors are available in the logic fabric to prevent unpowered inputs from floating.

A modified die intended specifically for 3D applications bears our designation 6M 3D. It was based on the 6M 2D design but was modified to include a fixed vertical interconnect consisting of 21K pads on both its top and back faces for signal and power delivery between different levels of the stack. We have envisaged 3D designs designated 12M 3D and 18M 3D that are respectively 2 level and 3 level 3D stacked structured ASICs based on the 6M 3D die. It will be understood that further variations based on e.g. the 6M 3D die are feasible. For example memory or analog levels could be added. Further possibilities include a 3D stacked structure of two three or more levels based on a 20 20 mm chip with 18M transistors.

High density front end of line TSVs were developed at our facility to support the implementation of 3D structured ASICs. Tungsten was used for the TSV metal material. Copper would be a possible alternative material but our foundry did not support copper processing. The TSVs were nominally 2 m in diameter and 40 m deep and they were isolated from the silicon substrate by an SiOinsulator layer surrounding the circumference of the TSV along its entire length. TSV pitches as small as 20 m have been implemented. The TSV resistance is minimal and is not expected to significantly limit the electrical performance of the 3D structured ASIC platform.

With further reference to the bond pads for 3D interconnection include the back side bond pads and the top side bond pads . Each of the top side pads is aligned with a corresponding back side pad. The top side pads are connected through the top side vias to the metal 5 layer. Each of the top side pads is underlain and connected to sixteen top side bond pads arranged in a 4 4 grid. We refer to these as 3D vias because they are used to distribute I O and power up and down to the different levels of the stack.

The via 2 mask is the only mask that is changed or customized to implement an application design. All other mask layers are fixed and are not regenerated. Because of this feature the structured ASIC wafers can be prefabricated up to via 2 and stockpiled until the application designs are completed. Once an application design commits a via 2 mask the remaining metal layers are fabricated and for 3D devices the 3D bond pad layers are fabricated as well.

 1 the 3D interconnects were laid out with mirror symmetry about the Y axis i.e. about one of the horizontal axes so that using the same mask on the front as on the back would result in the pairing and alignment of the back side TSV pads with the top side pads. This feature is desirable because it supports both face to face and face to back 3D assembly.

 2 The 3D bond pads were sized at 10 m 10 m. This conservative design rule is desirable because it supports a wide range of 3D assembly options. Such options include wafer to wafer assembly die to wafer assembly and die to die assembly as alternative assembly techniques. Such options also include the use of alternative assembly materials methods of material preparation and bonding tools. Our relatively large 3D bond pads are able to accommodate substantial variation in alignment tolerances among vendors and among the various alternative bonding technologies.

 3 The die size 12 mm 12 mm was kept the same as the 6M 2D design to retain similar 2D yield and package I O resources. By package I O resources is meant the I O pads for use in e.g. wire bonded or flip chip assembled integrated circuit packages. The number of package I O pads is proportional to the footprint area of the 2D die or 3D stack. Those skilled in the art will understand that this constraint is less important when the 3D stacks are assembled directly onto a silicon wafer rather than assembled by the traditional techniques mentioned above. We also assumed that the 3D structured ASIC would use the same via configurable logic fabric as the existing 2D structured ASICs.

The master tile shown as element of is the main cell used to lay out a structured ASIC device. Our exemplary master tile is based on Triad Semiconductor s VCA technology. It consists of 3K logic gates and 4K bits of dual ported SRAM. The transistors in the master tile are overlaid with fixed metal layers that are used for signal routing and power distribution. As noted above to create a structured ASIC device the master tile is duplicated in a rectangular array and connected to an I O pad frame and possibly other pre built custom IP blocks.

For a given application specific design custom via 2 mask layers are generated with the aid of auto place and route tools to configure the required logic and routing resources.

As noted above the via 2 mask layers are also used in the respective levels of our 3D stack to collectively define the application specific three dimensional interconnection pattern. Extensions of the 2D mask generation techniques to three dimensions are known in the art and need not be described here.

Since the layout efficiency of the master tile directly impacts its competitiveness against standard cell custom ASIC designs it has been heavily optimized across several structured ASIC device generations. As a result of these optimizations the master tile layout is very dense through all of the process layers and in general is difficult to modify without increasing its area or decreasing its functionality.

As a consequence adding 3D interconnects to the master tile layout cell will as a practical matter add overhead by increasing the total area or else it will demand tradeoffs in functionality. The master tile layout cell in our current example has an area of approximately one square millimeter. The 3D interconnects in our current example contain no active devices. They are bare metal wires that connect to the master tile routing grid.

We modeled the impact of adding 3D interconnects to the master tile layout cell. The results are shown in in which the upper curve represents the impact on the master tile area and the lower curve represents the impact on the total number of top metal routing tracks.

As seen in the figure there is a 1.2 increase in master tile area for adding the first sixteen back side top side 3D bond pad pairs and a 1.5 area increase for each subsequent group of sixteen pairs.

As further seen in the figure adding the first 32 3D bond pads to the layout necessitates removal of 2.5 of the top metal layer signal routing tracks to create space for additional 3D bond pads. Such an outcome is undesirable because it can decrease the routability of application designs.

Alternative arrangements of the 3D bond pads in the master tile layout can maintain the signal routing tracks at the cost of higher area overhead. For example 128 bond pads can be added without a penalty to the signal routing tracks but at the cost of a 16 area increase.

Because the logic density of the master tile will decreases as the density of its 3D interconnects rises it is advisable to consider the application domain requirements of the structured ASIC platform before selecting the number of 3D interconnects.

Our 6M 3D structured ASIC was targeted for coarse grain 3D applications in which the number of 3D interconnects is relatively low and the primary 3D product drivers are size and power reduction. With those considerations in mind we added only 16 3D bond pads to the master tile. This would allow the master tile to retain all of the logic resources of the original 6M 2D structured ASIC device. The slight 1.2 increase in the master tile area was absorbed by spare area existing around the I O pad frame. Consequently it did not cause the overall die size to increase. On the other hand adding more than 16 3D interconnects to the master tile would have caused the die size to increase.

Generally each master tile has sixteen 3D interconnects not shown in the figure each having a top side and a back side bond pad. The back side pads connect to TSVs. It is not necessary for the front side pads to connect to TSVs because they connect to the top most metal layer. The 3D interconnects for the master tiles are placed between the master tiles and not directly within them. Because of allowances for the partition into four power domain quadrants 3D interconnects are omitted from a central portion of the die. In total therefore there are 1280 3D interconnect bond pads on each side of the die. The arrangement of 3D interconnect bond pads is symmetrical about Y axis .

In addition to the 2560 total master tile 3D interconnects we added 2400 3D interconnect TSV bond pads around the edge of the die between the master tile core and the peripheral I O pads described below . The edge located interconnect bond pads were arranged in pairs with 1200 pads on the back side and 1200 matching pads on the top side of the die.

The master tile 3D interconnect pads and the edge located 3D interconnect pads are intended for signal transmission between die levels in the 3D stack they are not intended for power delivery or off package communication. Also because they are small in size and large in number we found it advantageous to omit ESD protection circuits for these interconnect pads and to omit design features that would otherwise make them testable prior to 3D assembly.

With further reference to we arrayed probe pads in the peripheral I O pad frame. Of those probe pads 272 were for signal routing and 144 were for power i.e. for vand vsupplies. The 272 probe pads for signal routing are identified in below as the I O pads . The peripheral I O pad frame was modified to be symmetric about the Y axis to support both face to face and face to back 3D assembly.

As best seen in we inserted a 4 11 grid of redundant 3D bond pads on each I O pad to provide low impedance power delivery and off package I O signaling. These 3D bond pads were protected by ESD circuits in the peripheral I O pad logic. They were designed to provide wafer probe test access to the design prior to 3D assembly. Accordingly each 4 11 grid is associated with 44 back side TSVs and 44 16 704 top side vias.

In addition to the 1280 3D interconnect bond pads and the 1200 edge located interconnect bond pads mentioned above we added 11968 peripheral I O pads and 6336 peripheral power pads. In all 41 568 3D bond pads were added to the 6M 3D design.

With reference to we will now describe the 24 mask 5 layer metallization CMOS process that we used to make the 2D die. We began with a P type SOI 270 nm top Si 200 nm BOX 150 mm wafer. In a departure from standard processes we built front end of flow FEOL TSVs into the wafers at the outset.

At the start of the process Step a 10 nm thermal pad oxide was grown and an 80 nm LPCVD nitride stop layer was deposited. Then at Step TSV holes were lithographically patterned on the nitride. Successive dry etches were then performed to open the nitride pad oxide top silicon and BOX layers.

Deep reactive ion etching DRIE was then performed to make TSV holes. Typical TSV hole dimensions are diameter 2 m depth 20 m. A 200 nm thermal oxidation of the sidewalls was performed to uniformly insulate the TSV holes and a 1.0 m amorphous silicon a Si layer was deposited by LPCVD to fill them. More specifically the a Si layer was slowly grown inward from the walls of the holes until the holes were filled.

Chemical mechanical polishing CMP was used to remove the amorphous silicon a Si overburden. This was followed by a hot phosphoric acid etch to remove the nitride stop layer. The a Si in the TSV plugs was used as a placeholder through the entire course of the CMOS FEOL processing. The FEOL processing included shallow trench isolation well formation gate module formation source and drain module formation and such other CMOS processes as were necessary to form the transistors and other basic CMOS circuit elements. The a Si was ultimately removed by using another round of TSV mask patterning with a multi step 3D contact dry etch sequence following pre metal dielectric polishing by CMP.

Tungsten was then deposited by highly conformal CVD to refill the TSV volumes followed by conventional CMP to remove tungsten from the top surface.

Standard contact and BEOL processing continued from this point up through M. At M an additional inter layer dielectric ILD passivation layer was deposited and planarized with CMP and a 200 nm PECVD nitride stop layer and diffusion barrier was deposited .

Post via lithography and etch were used to create post via holes which were filled with tungsten deposited by CVD and polished leaving a planar nitride top surface with embedded vias. Contact lithography with lift off was used to form 1 m thick gold Au pads.

A two level wafer stack was then formed by aligning a pair of the processed wafers and bonding them at 400 C with a force of 30 kN. The wafer stack was attached by Au Au metallic bonding between the mating pads. Next the wafer stack was thinned using a combination of back grinding wet acid chemical etch and CMP. The thinning step removed most of a single wafer thickness roughly 655 m net in the present example thereby revealing the buried tungsten TSVs and their adjacent oxide insulator.

Further CMP was used to recess the silicon surface surrounding the TSVs. A PECVD oxide for isolation was first deposited and then polished by CMP to re reveal the TSV tungsten.

At this point bond pad metallization which is typically aluminum can be added to complete the two wafer stack. Alternatively a new gold metallization can be added to enable an additional wafer to be stacked on by Au Au bonding.

Although the preceding description is directed to wafer to wafer stacking it should be noted that viable alternatives include die to die and die to wafer stacking. Similarly the particular Au Au bonding scheme described here is one of various alternatives known to those skilled in the art. It should also be noted in this regard that the use of SOI wafers as described above is exemplary and not limiting. For example the techniques described above for forming the TSVs are also applicable to ordinary epi wafers.

The use of an a Si placeholder and its replacement by tungsten in the FEOL TSV fabrication process described above diverges from conventional CMOS techniques. Although conventional alternatives could be used we believe that our approach is preferable. In place of a Si other similar polysilicon placeholders could be used provided that the material is free of metal contamination and is compatible with high temperature processing. Pertinent methods for TSV integration are described e.g. in T. M. Bauer et al. Front end of line integration of high density electrically isolated metallized through silicon vias ECTC 2009 59 26 29 May 2009 1165 1169.

