---

title: Method and system for headset with automatic source detection and volume control
abstract: An audio headset receives one or more audio signals carrying one or more audio channels and processes the audio channels to generate stereo signals for output to a left and a right speaker of the audio headset. The processing determines a number of the audio channels carried in the received audio signal(s), adjusts level(s) of the audio channels based on the determined number of audio channels and/or adjusts gain and/or phase of the audio channels to control a perceived location of a listener wearing the headset relative to a source of sounds carried in the stereo signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143878&OS=09143878&RS=09143878
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 09143878
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141007
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application 61 888 666 filed on Oct. 9 2013 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present application relate to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for headset with automatic source detection and volume control.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing for gaming will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for dynamic control of game audio based on audio analysis substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The game console may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to present a game to and also enable game play interaction between one or more local players and or one or more remote players. The game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a radio network interface video interface audio interface controller hub main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various buses links and .

The controller hub comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment II III or variants thereof SATA II SATA III embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The controller hub may also be referred to as an input output I O controller hub. Exemplary controller hubs may comprise Southbridge Haswell Fusion and Sandybridge. The controller hub may be operable to receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA II SATA III and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA II III and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The controller hub exchanges data with the radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards near field communication NFC and or the like.

The network interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant audio data via the link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the audio subsystem via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 6 8 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory which stores parameter settings to affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may provide high speed memory functions for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The cache memory may typically comprise DRAM or variants thereof. The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to the user interface device the user interface device the network the monitor and the audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth NFC and or the like . The user interface device may be operable to communicate with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuit. The game console sends audio to the audio subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . Additional details of an example audio subsystem are described below.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure the audio levels on the left channel and the right channel of a received signal may be monitored by a headset for a determined period of time in order to determine the type of input stream that is being received. During the monitoring of the audio levels on the audio channels if the headset detects nothing the headset may conclude that there is no audio. If audio is detected by the headset on only one channel and the detected audio level is above a first determined threshold the headset may conclude that the audio is monophonic mono . If audio is detected on both channels and the detected audio level on each channel is above a second determined threshold the headset may conclude that the audio is at least stereo. If the audio is determined to be at least stereo the headset may determine whether the audio is a surround sound format by checking whether the level s on the subwoofer channel and or the center channel are above a third determined threshold. The subwoofer and or center channel may be used for this determination because in typical surround sound scenarios there is almost always audio on the subwoofer channel and to a lesser extent on the center channel whereas the rear channels often have no audio for long periods of time. If the detected audio level on the subwoofer channel or the center channel is above the third determined threshold the headset may conclude that at least 6 channels are present in the received signal. In instances where there is a need for the headset to distinguish between 6 channels e.g. 5.1 Surround from 8 channels 7.1 Surround then the headset may determine whether the level s on one or both of the side channels is are above a fourth determined threshold. If so the headset may conclude that there are 8 channels. If detected audio levels on the side channels are not above that fourth threshold then it may be concluded that there are 6 channels.

Once the headset determines the number of audio channels in the received audio the headset may utilize resulting information to control the volume of the audio levels on one or more of the detected channels such that the resulting stereo output does not fluctuate beyond certain levels regardless of the number of audio channels in the received signal. In this regard without such volume control based on the determined number of channels the volume may need to be set to account for the highest overall volume that may result from combining the most possible number of channels. Such a setting however may often result in the overall volume being too low when there are a fewer number of channels actually present in the signal. Once the number of channels is known the volume of the individual channels can be adjusted accordingly when combining them to form the output stereo signal. For example if only a first and second channel are present in the received audio signal a volume of each of the first and second channels may be set to the maximum volume limit permitted by applicable regulations but if there is a third channel present that is to be combined with the first channel for output to the left speaker and combined with the second channel for output to the right speaker then the volumes of the first and second channels may be set lower during the combining to account for the additional signal energy in the third channel such that the maximum overall volume output to each speaker can reach but not exceed the maximum volume limit permitted by applicable regulations

Additionally or alternatively once the headset determines the number of audio channels in the received audio the headset may utilize resulting information to process the input stream to create a desired surround effect e.g. controlling the perceived location of the listener relative to the audio . Hysteresis of the audio channels may also be utilized as a factor by the headset to determine when to transition between the different types of input streams.

The monitor and the user interface device are as described above. The headset is as described below with reference to . The audio basestation is as described below with reference to for example .

The multi purpose device may comprise for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like and that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. An example multi purpose device is described below with reference to . Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface GUI which may enable a user to access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings and so on. The graphical user interface may enable a user to interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance the user s gaming experience.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links and or hops among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one of more devices of the GPN .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to convert acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The speakers and may comprise circuitry that may be operable to convert electrical signals to sound waves.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuit of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuit of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct NFC or the like with another computing device and or the like. Some of the user controls may adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular game that is being played. Some of the user controls may also adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular player that is engage in the game play. The connector may be for example a USB thunderbolt Firewire or other type of port or interface. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards NFC the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The CPU may also be operable to handle dynamic control of game audio based on audio analysis of a received audio signal. In this regard the CPU may be operable to dynamically handle the increasing and decreasing which may include muting unmuting of the level s of one or more audio channels detected in a received audio signal based on information determined from the audio analysis which may be stored in the storage device and or the memory .

The storage device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory which may be operable to store data comprising operating data configuration data settings and so on which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuit . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuit e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The storage device may also be operable to store audio information such as the determined number of audio channels for a particular audio source and or particular audio type. The audio information may be stored as for example a look up table LUT in the storage device .

In another embodiment of the disclosure the CPU may be operable to configure the audio processing circuit to perform signal analysis on the audio signal s received via the connector and or the radio . The signal analysis may be utilized to determine the type of input stream that is being received by the headset . The CPU may be operable to control the operation of the audio processing circuit in order to store e.g. in the storage device the results of the audio analysis for different received signals along with an identifier e.g. a name and or signature of the particular content and or source device from which content is being received of the received signals that may be used in quickly determining characteristics of future signals rather than having to re perform signal analysis.

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc. In this regard the memory may comprise information and or data that may be utilized to control operation of the audio processing circuit to determine characteristics of the audio signal s being received.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing performed by the audio processing circuit may also be determined based on default settings player preference and or by adaptive and or dynamic changes to the game play environment. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker a and b. Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

The audio processing circuit may be operable to perform signal analysis on a received audio signal. The signal analysis may determine characteristics of the audio signal such as the number of audio channels present in the signal. The audio processing circuit and the CPU may be operable to control the volume of the channel s such that the resulting stereo output is bounded and does not fluctuate beyond certain levels regardless of the number of audio channels present in the audio signal. Additionally based on the determined characteristics the audio processing circuit and the CPU may be operable to process the channel s to create a desired surround or virtual effect such as controlling the perceived location of the listener relative to sources of sounds in the audio signal.

The audio connectors and may comprise digital audio in and digital audio out e.g. S PDIF connectors respectively. The audio connectors and may comprise a left line in and a right line in connector respectively. The controls may comprise for example a power button a button for enabling disabling virtual surround sound a button for adjusting the perceived angles of the speakers when the virtual surround sound is enabled and a dial for controlling a volume gain of the audio received via the line in connectors and . The status indicators may indicate for example whether the audio basestation is powered on whether audio data is being received by the basestation via connectors and or what type of audio data e.g. Dolby Digital is being received by the basestation .

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards NFC and or the like and or proprietary e.g. proprietary protocol for receiving audio protocols for receiving audio from a console such as the console wireless protocols.

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for transmitting audio to the headphones .

The CPU comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the audio basestation . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the audio basestation and or part of one or more software applications running on the audio basestation . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuit . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the basestation . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuit e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the basestation in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game and or chat audio signals that are subsequently output to a device e.g. headset in communication with the basestation . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on a microphone audio signal that is subsequently output to a device e.g. console in communication with the basestation .

The application processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the multi purpose device as well as graphics processing functions of the multi purpose device . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The memory subsystem comprises volatile memory for storing runtime data nonvolatile memory for mass storage and long term storage and or a memory controller which controls reads writes to memory.

The cellular GPS networking subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The sensors comprise for example a camera a gyroscope an accelerometer a biometric sensor and or the like.

The power management subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage distribution of power among the various components of the multi purpose device .

The LAN subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The bus adaptor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable for interfacing one or more internal data busses of the multi purpose device with an external bus e.g. a Universal Serial Bus for transferring data to from the multi purpose device via a wired connection.

The user interface subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control and relay signals to from a touchscreen hard buttons and or other input devices of the multi purpose device .

The audio processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process e.g. digital to analog conversion analog to digital conversion compression decompression encryption decryption resampling etc. audio signals. The audio processor may be operable to receive and or output signals via a connector such as a 3.5 mm stereo and microphone connector.

The headset may be substantially similar to the headset which is shown and described with respect to for example B and C.

The audio source may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to output one or more of a plurality of audio signals. Each of the audio signals that are output by the audio source may comprise two or more audio channels where N is an integer. For 7.1 surround for example N equals eight and the audio channels carried by signal s may comprise left front LF right front RF center C left side LS right side RS left rear LR right rear RR and sub woofer. The signal s from the audio source may communicated to headset via for example USB Firewire Wireless Optical HDMI IS TDM T1 and so on.

The audio processor may be substantially similar to the audio processing circuit for example which is shown and described with respect to .

The preferences and setting module may comprise listener or player preference information and settings for different games music and or movies. The information for the user preferences and settings module may be stored for example in the storage device which is shown and described with respect to .

The signal characterization module in the audio processor is operable to perform signal analysis on the audio signals that are received from the audio source to determine type of audio signal e.g. whether it is mono stereo 6 channel surround or eight channel surround . The signal characterization module may be operable to monitor for a determined period of time the audio levels on possible audio channels of the received signal . If no signal is detected on both the left channel and the right channel during the period of time the signal characterization module may conclude that there is no audio in the received signal . If on the other hand the signal characterization module detects audio on only one of the left and right channels during the period of time and the audio level e.g. instantaneously peak RMS time averaged or any other suitable measure of level during the period of time is above a first determined threshold the signal characterization module determines that the audio is monophonic mono . If the signal characterization module detects audio on both the left channel and the right channel and the detected audio level on each of the left channel and the right channel is above a second determined threshold the signal characterization module determines that the audio is at least stereo. If the signal characterization module determines that the audio is at least stereo the signal characterization module checks the audio level s of the subwoofer channel and or the center channel during the determined period of time. If the signal characterization module determines that the audio level s on the subwoofer channel and or center channel during the monitoring period are above a third determined threshold the signal characterization module may conclude that there are at least six channels present in the received audio signal .

In order to determine whether there are six channels or eight channels in the signal s output from the audio source the signal characterization module may check the audio level s on one or both of the side channels during the monitored period of time. If the signal characterization module determines that the audio level s of one or both of the side channels are above a fourth threshold the signal characterization module determines that there are eight channels. If on the other hand the signal characterization module determines that the audio level s of one or both of the side channels are not above the fourth threshold the signal characterization module determines that there are six channels.

The CPU and or the audio processor may be operable to utilize the decision as to the type of signal for controlling the volume of the detected channel s such that the resulting stereo output does not fluctuate beyond certain levels regardless of the number of channels carried in the signal s . The CPU and or the audio processor may also be operable to utilize the information about the signal that is stored by the signal characterization module in the storage device to process the signal for creating a desired surround effect for example by controlling the perceived location of the listener relative to sound sources in the audio.

In block the signal characterization circuit determines whether the monitored signal meets determined criteria for a determined period of time X. The criteria may be for example whether the level of the channel is above a threshold for the entire period of time X for some percentage of the period of time X or the like. The criteria may be set based for example on the type of channel being monitored e.g. which of the eight channels it is and or on the type of device that the audio source is. For example if the audio source is a game console or television or blue ray player the criteria may be set with a bias toward deciding that the audio signal is a surround sound signal since those types of devices typically output surround sound signals. Setting the criteria to have such a bias may comprise for example using a lower threshold for deciding that a surround channel is present e.g. subwoofer center left side and or right side before deciding that the signal is a surround signal. As another example if the audio source is a stereo or personal audio device the criteria may be set with a bias toward deciding that the signal is a stereo signal since those types of devices typically output stereo signals. Setting the criteria to have such a bias may comprise for example using a higher level threshold for deciding that a surround channel is present e.g. subwoofer center left side and or right side before deciding that the signal is a surround signal. Similarly the value of X may be set based on the type of audio device and or the type of channel. For example X may be longer for channels such as the rear channels of a surround signal that have sound on them relatively infrequently and shorter for channels such as center that have sound on them relatively frequently.

Still referring to block if the channel meets the criteria for the determined amount of time X the process advances to block and the channel is decided to be present. If the channel does not meet the criteria for the determined amount of time X the process advances to block and the channel is decided to be absent.

In block the monitored channel is determined to be present and volume control settings are set accordingly. After block the process advances to block .

In block the monitored channel is determined to be absent and volume control settings are set accordingly.

In block it is determined whether the channel has failed to meet the criteria for a period of time Y where Y may be different than X . If so then the process advances to block . If not the process returns to block . The value of Y may be set based on the type of audio device and or the type of channel. For example Y may be longer for channels such as the rear channels of a surround signal that have sound on them relatively infrequently and shorter for channels such as center that have sound on them relatively frequently.

As another example to illustrate setting X and Y for a surround channel e.g. subwoofer and or center from an audio source that typically outputs surround audio e.g. a game console X may be shorter than Y thus creating a bias for deciding that the signal is surround and remaining in surround mode until it there is high confidence that the audio is no longer surround.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Throughout this disclosure the use of the terms dynamically and or adaptively with respect to an operation means that for example parameters for configurations for and or execution of the operation may be configured or reconfigured during run time e.g. in or near real time based on newly received or updated information or data. For example an operation within a transmitter and or a receiver may be configured or reconfigured based on for example current recently received and or updated signals information and or data.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

