---

title: Internet protocol analyzing
abstract: Included are methods for facilitating routing of control data associated with a communication to a plurality of recorders. One such method, among others, includes receiving control data related to a communication and routing the received control data to at least one recorder via a layer  protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09197492&OS=09197492&RS=09197492
owner: VERINT AMERICAS INC.
number: 09197492
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140505
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 762 402 filed Apr. 19 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 394 411 filed Mar. 31 2006 both entitled Internet Protocol Analyzing the contents of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In an Internet Protocol IP communications network any of a plurality of communications devices may be configured to communicate data to and from other communications devices. Users of the communications devices network administrators and or third parties may desire to record these communications. Currently networks are configured to provide a recorder to passively record such communications. While such a solution may accommodate some recording needs many networks lack the ability to facilitate recording of communications between endpoints across a wide area network.

Included are methods for facilitating routing of control data associated with a communication to a plurality of recorders. One such method among others includes receiving control data related to a communication and routing the received control data to at least one recorder via a layer protocol.

Also included are embodiments of a Internet protocol IP analyzer configured to facilitate recording of at least one communication. One embodiment of an IP analyzer includes logic configured to receive control data related to a communication and logic configured to route via a layer protocol the received control data to a recorder.

Additionally included are embodiments of a system for routing communication data to a plurality of recorders. One embodiment of a system includes an Internet Protocol IP analyzer coupled to a plurality of recorders the IP analyzer configured to select at least one load balancer that is configured to receive communication data related to the communication and route control data to the selected at least one load balancer.

Other systems methods features and advantages of this disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Included in this description are systems and methods that may be configured for recording communications utilizing call control forwarding intelligent call control distribution and or other functions. In at least one nonlimiting example a network can be configured where the point of interception of control data is remote from a desired recorder. In such a configuration the recorder may not be supplied with mirrored control data. A component such as an Internet Protocol IP analyzer may be configured to forward received control data such as across a TCP IP connection. Other embodiments can provide an IP analyzer that is configured to determine which recorder or recorder group is configured to record for a predetermined gateway or endpoint. The IP analyzer can also be configured to only forward control data to recorders that are configured to receive communication data related to a particular communication.

As a nonlimiting example system designers can analyze network traffic through ports or Virtual Local Area Networks VLANs by using a System Port Analyzer SPAN to send a copy of the communication traffic mirrored data to another port on the switch that has been connected to a Remote Monitoring RMON probe. In operation a copy of the data communicated between communications devices may be directed to recorder . Recorder however is not a party to the communication and the communications devices do not generally have information related to the presence and operation of recorder

Also included in the nonlimiting example of is a network pipeline . Network pipeline is included to illustrate that while the configuration of may provide recording services to a small number of communications devices as the amount of information to be recorded increases the network pipeline may be capable of communicating more information than a single recorder can process. As such the recorder may malfunction burnout or otherwise fail to provide the desired recording services.

One should note that while communications devices and are directly coupled together and communications devices and are coupled directly together this is a nonlimiting example. As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand any configuration for providing communications services between communications devices may be implemented. Such a configuration may also be represented with a plurality of communications devices independently coupled to the network however this too is a nonlimiting example.

While the configuration from illustrates the ability to provide recording services to all communications devices in this configuration can result in problems when recording demands are not evenly distributed. As a nonlimiting example if communications devices and are responsible for 80 of all recordings then recorder is recording 80 of the network traffic. As such recorder may reach its storage limit and or be subject to malfunction due to the large number of recordings. Similarly recorder will be responsible for only 20 of the recordings in this nonlimiting example and may be under utilized for its capabilities.

As a nonlimiting example in operation a user on communications device can initiate a communication with a user on communications device . One of the users a system administrator and or a third party may desire that the communication be recorded. To facilitate the recording data is communicated to the load balancer during the communication. The load balancer can be configured to receive the data for recording and route the received data to one or more of the recorders and . As data from different communications and or different streams of the same communication is received the load balancer can determine to which recorder that data is routed. This determination can be made based on a balancing algorithm such as a round robin algorithm weighted round robin algorithm a source destination algorithm or other algorithm as discussed below.

Using a round robin algorithm with three recorders as illustrated in the following call distribution can be achieved.

As illustrated as communications are received at the load balancer the round robin algorithm can automatically route calls to a recorder in a manner that provides a substantially balanced workload to each recorder. More specifically the round robin algorithm can be configured to allocate calls based on past recorder utilization. In other words the round robin algorithm can be configured to route the most recently received call to recorders in a continuously repeating sequence. While the round robin algorithm may be desirable in certain configurations a weighted round robin algorithm may be used to route recording traffic in other configurations.

The call distribution in Table 2 shows that the weighted round robin algorithm considers the load on each of the recorders before routing the communication data e.g. real time packet RTP flow to the recorders. In other words the algorithm can be configured to determine the recorder s that are currently utilized less than other recorders. This can result in providing a substantially balanced distribution of calls across the recorders in that the least utilized recorder receives the call. If there are two or more recorders with equal current utilization the weighted round robin algorithm can route the newly received call to the recorder next in the sequence similar to the round robin algorithm discussed above . This means that depending on the particular configuration hard disk space for storing recording data e.g. at data storage can be utilized in a roughly even manner.

While the above described round robin algorithm and weighted round robin algorithm can be utilized for many recording environments when call data is received at the load balancer in different data streams i.e. the communication data sent from a communications device is received in a different data stream than the communication data received at the communications device a source destination algorithm may be used. More specifically if the endpoint of a VoIP call e.g. communications device receives and sends the communications data e.g. RTP data on different port numbers the source destination load balancing algorithm may be used. The source destination algorithm can more easily handle recording in such an environment as call streams from the same communication can be sent to different recorders and provide a roughly even distribution of calls for the recorders.

Additionally while the fail over recorder can be kept idle when there is no recorder malfunction this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically other embodiments can utilize at least a portion of the fail over recorder s functionality when the fail over recorder is not otherwise in use. Additionally while illustrates the fail over recorder in N 1 fail over protection where N represents the total number of recorders and 1 indicates the number of recorders available for fail over as one of ordinary skill in the art will understand this disclosure can be interpreted to include N M fail over protection where M can be any number of recorders available for fail over. One should also note that with the above described fail over protection employed a network administrator may remove the malfunctioning recorder without affecting the remaining recorders load balancer and or other network components.

Additionally one should note that fail over protection can be utilized in response to the load balancer detecting a malfunction with a recorder e.g. dead network cable . Other embodiments can include logic related to the recorder for sending a signal to the load balancer indicating that the recorder is to be taken out of service. Still other embodiments include logic related to the recorder being configured to disable the connection with the load balancer such that the load balancer can detect that the link to that recorder is dead.

Additional elements to the above described network configuration can include health checking logic and or watchdogs where failure of one or more logic components e.g. software may be used to signal to the load balancer to take that recorder out of service. Still other embodiments include using redundant recorders to smooth the load of data e.g. receiving roughly equal amounts of data at each recorder even when no recorder has failed. This can provide an increased use of available resources and ensure that all recorders are functional. In such a configuration no one recorder is the fail over recorder as any and or all of the recorders can provide the desired fail over protection. This can provide more redundant capacity into the network and provide greater performance since normal operational traffic is spread evenly across the available resources.

One should also note that in at least one embodiment call data can be preserved when a call is transferred from a first recorder to a second recorder. As a nonlimiting example recorder can be configured to record a communication between communications device and communications device . If a determination is made that it is more preferable that recorder record the communication e.g. recorder fails bandwidth issues with recorder etc. the load balancer can be configured to send subsequently received data to recorder . As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand recorder recorded a portion of the communication and recorder recorded a portion of the communication. As such the configuration of can be configured to stitch together the two portions of the recorded communication such that upon retrieval the recorded data is viewed as a single recording. Additionally depending on the particular configuration this concept can be extended to any number of recorders.

The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the load balancer a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80 86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation.

The volatile and nonvolatile memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the volatile and nonvolatile memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor . Additionally volatile and nonvolatile memory can also include an first routing software second routing software and or third routing software . Additionally the volatile and nonvolatile memory can include an operating system not shown depending on the particular configuration.

A nonexhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers or personal data assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. and Windows CE available from Microsoft Corporation . The operating system can be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

A system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the volatile and nonvolatile memory so as to operate properly in connection with the Operating System.

The Input Output devices that may be coupled to system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to network interfaces a keyboard mouse scanner microphone etc. Further the Input Output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to network interfaces a printer display etc. Finally the Input Output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc. Additionally a display interface not shown may facilitate connection to a display monitor or other display device.

If the load balancer includes a personal computer workstation or the like the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the Operating System and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the load balancer is activated.

When the load balancer is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the volatile and nonvolatile memory to communicate data to and from the volatile and nonvolatile memory and to generally control operations of the load balancer pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part are read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

Additionally as stated above while reference in is made to load balancer similar architecture can apply to one or more of the components in the communications network. More specifically depending on the particular configuration a switch recorder communications device etc. may include one or more of the components illustrated in . Further due to the differing functionality for these devices a variance in the hardware and or software components may be expected.

The load balancer can then receive communication data from a communication block as discussed above. Upon receiving the control data from any of a plurality of communications that may be taking place in the network as illustrated in block the load balancer can be configured to provide one or more of the recorders with the control data. In at least one embodiment the load balancer provides all recorders and with the control data block . The load balancer can then determine to which recorder the communication data is to be routed block . As discussed above depending on the particular embodiment any of a plurality of routing algorithms can be used including but not limited to the round robin algorithm the weighted round robin algorithm and the source destination algorithm. Once the recorder is determined the load balancer can route the communication data to the determined recorder.

The load balancer can then provide the recorders with the received control data block . The load balancer can then determine to which recorder the first communication stream data is to be routed block and determine to which recorder the second communication stream is to be routed block . The load balancer can then route the first communication stream to the first determined recorder block and route the second communication stream to the second determined recorder block .

One should also note that while the load balancer can be configured to detect errors in recorders at least one embodiment can include a recorder with logic to self detect errors with the recorder. As a nonlimiting example a recorder can be configured with logic for monitoring various hardware and or software components using Intelligent Platform Management Interface IPMI and or other protocol. Link Protector

The configuration from however illustrates an embodiment of a network for addressing hardware malfunction in such a scenario. More specifically by passively coupling a link protector to the network mirrored data can be received by the link protector . The link protector can route the received data to the primary recorder in this nonlimiting example recorder . If a hardware malfunction occurs such as a severance of the link between recorder and link protector the link protector can automatically route subsequently received data to the secondary recorder . By routing subsequently received data to the secondary recorder recording can continue with minimal data loss.

In operation a call is initiated between communications device and communications device . This communication can be facilitated by switch depending on the particular configuration may also facilitate the communication . Link protector receives communication data and sends the received communication data to load balancer which is the primary load balancer for switch . Similarly link protector receives control data and sends this data to load balancer

With respect to the configuration of if the link between link protector and load balancer is severed link protector can automatically begin sending subsequently received communications data to load balancer . Similarly if the link between and load balancer is severed the link protector can route subsequently received control data to load balancer which is the secondary load balancer for switch if this data is not already being sent to load balancer . Similar routing can occur with link protectors and

Regardless of the status of links between load balancers and link protectors the load balancers can receive data from the link protectors and distribute this data to recorders according to any of a plurality of algorithms as indicated above. Also as indicated above a data storage unit not shown can be coupled to recorders .

In addition to detecting a hardware malfunction such as a severed link link protectors can be configured to heartbeat those components coupled to link protectors . More specifically link protector can be configured with logic for determining whether load balancers as well as recorders are functioning. As a nonlimiting example link protector can be configured to routinely and or continuously send a status request signal heartbeat to load balancers and . The status request signal can be configured to determine whether the logic in the load balancers is operating properly. Upon receiving an indication of the status of load balancers the link protector can determine whether the load balancers are operating as desired. Similarly functionality data related to recorders can be determined in a similar fashion. If the link protector determines that a load balancer and or a recorder are not operating properly the link protector can route subsequently received data to those components that are operating properly. More specifically in at least one embodiment the link protector can be configured to identify a hardware software and or communications issue with a recorder and or load balancer. As a nonlimiting example the link protector can be configured with logic such as but not limited to IPMI for determining various issues.

While the flowchart with respect to illustrates a configuration where the link detector determines whether the first recorder is operational each time data is received this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment if the link protector determines that the first recorder is not operational the link detector automatically routes subsequently received data to the second recorder without making any determinations. This can continue until the malfunctioning recorder is repaired and or replaced and the link protector is reset.

As illustrated in block does not flow to an end block. Such a configuration is intended to represent the possibility that the link protector can be configured to provide link protection with any number of load balancers and or recorders. As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand blocks similar to blocks and can be utilized for additional load balancers.

In operation if a caller initiates a communication from communications device to communications device which is external to the network of and may be coupled to gateway via a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN the Internet and or other network gateway can facilitate the communication. As data is communicated between the communications devices and load balancer receives mirrored communication data sent between gateway and switch . As discussed above load balancer can be configured to send the received communication data to one or more of the recorders and . Similarly call control engine receives control data related to the communication. Load balancer receives mirrored control data from the call control engine . Load balancer can then provide the received control data to one or more recorders and

While such a configuration may enable recording of communications between two communications devices being serviced by the same gateway problems may occur for recording across a plurality of gateways. More specifically if a user on communications device desires to communicate with a user on communications device which is external to the network of and may be coupled to gateway via a PSTN the Internet and or to the network recording may be a difficult task. As a nonlimiting example by initiating a communication from communications device the data is communicated via network to gateway . Gateway sends the received data to communications device

However in recording the communication load balancer receives mirrored data sent from gateway . A problem can occur in sending the control data to the load balancer in that the call control engine from which the load balancer generally receives mirrored control data may not receive the control data due at least in part by a lack of layer connectivity between gateways . As data ports for mirrored data from switch and may be limited recording difficulties may result.

More specifically in at least one nonlimiting example if a user on communications device desires to initiate a communication with a user on communications device control data associated with the communication can be sent to IP analyzer . The IP analyzer can be configured to send the received control data to load balancer . Additionally as discussed above the mirrored communications data can be sent to load balancer . With both the control data and the communication data the load balancer can facilitate recording of the communication via one or more of the recorders and

One should note that depending on the particular embodiment the IP analyzer can be configured for call control forwarding and or intelligent call control distribution. More specifically with respect to call control forwarding the recorders and are generally unable to receive mirrored data from call control engine due to the lack of layer network connectivity between the two components. The IP analyzer can be configured to receive mirrored control data from call control engine . The IP analyzer can receive and forward control data to one or more of the recorders and across a TCP IP connection or other medium. Additionally the IP analyzer can also be configured to send the control data to recorders and with little or no concept of the geographic location of the recorders. During call control forwarding the IP analyzer can be configured to forward all control data to all recorders communicatively coupled to the IP analyzer

With respect to intelligent call control distribution the IP analyzer can be configured to intelligently distribute control data to recorders based on a predetermined address for each recorder or recorder bank . More specifically if a communication commences between communications device and load balancer and thus recorders and will generally not receive communication data related to this communication. As such with intelligent call control distribution IP analyzer can be configured to send control data only to the load balancer that facilitates recording of the call in this nonlimiting example load balancer which has a known address e.g. IP address and Media Access Control MAC address . Other load balancers and thus recorders that are not configured to receive communication data related to this particular communication will not receive control data related to the communication.

Additionally while one IP analyzer can be utilized for predetermined network traffic in at least one configuration a plurality of IP analyzers can be utilized for fail over protection. Additionally depending on the particular configuration one or more link protectors and or load balancers may be coupled to the IP analyzer .

Similarly load balancer is passively coupled between gateway and switch . Load balancer is also coupled to recorders and . Switch is coupled to call control engine . Call control engine is coupled to communications devices and as well as IP analyzer

Additionally in attempting to record the communication data related to the communication the first step is for communications device component to send data to switch component as illustrated in step . Switch component then sends the received communication data to recording cluster component .

Similarly in attempting to record control data in this nonlimiting example communications device component sends control data to call control engine component as illustrated in step . Call control engine component then sends at least a portion of the received control data to recording cluster component as illustrated in step .

With respect to the communication data for recording communications device component sends communications data to WAN component as illustrated in step . WAN component sends at least a portion of the received data to gateway component as illustrated in step . Gateway component sends at least a portion of that data to recording cluster component as illustrated in step .

With respect to the control data for recording communications device component sends the control data to call control engine component as illustrated in step . Call control engine sends at least a portion of the received control data to recording cluster component as illustrated in step . As demonstrated in this nonlimiting example the control data is received at recording cluster component while the communication data is received at recording cluster component . For at least the reason that in some configurations layer connectivity may not exist between gateways recording of communications that traverse a plurality of gateways without an IP analyzer may be difficult.

To record communications data in this nonlimiting example communications device component sends communications data to switch component as illustrated in step . Switch component then sends at least a portion of the received data to recording cluster component as illustrated in step .

To record control data communications device component sends at least a portion of the control data for the communication to call control engine component as illustrated in step . Call control engine component sends at least a portion of the received data to IP analyzer component as illustrated in step . IP analyzer component then sends at least a portion of the control data to the recording cluster component as illustrated in step . As discussed above by utilizing an IP analyzer both the control data and the communications data can be sent to the desired load balancer for recording.

In sending communications data for recording communications device component sends data to gateway component as illustrated in step . Gateway component then sends the received data to switch as illustrated in step . Recording cluster then receives mirrored data from switch as illustrated in step .

In communicating control data for recording communications device component sends control data to call control engine component as illustrated in step . Call control engine component then sends data to IP analyzer component as illustrated in step . IP analyzer component then sends at least a portion of the received control data to load balancer as illustrated in step .

Similar to the discussion above the IP analyzer in this nonlimiting example enables a desired load balancer to receive both control data and communications data related to the call. The load balancer can be configured to then send the received data to one or more of the recorders and or coupled to the load balancer

In sending communication data for recording communications device component sends communication data to WAN component as illustrated in step . WAN component then sends the received data to gateway component as illustrated in step . Recording cluster component then receives mirrored data from gateway component as illustrated in step .

In sending control data for recording communications device component sends control data to call control engine component as illustrated in step . Call control engine component then sends the received data to IP analyzer component as illustrated in step . IP analyzer component then sends at least a portion of the received data to recording cluster component for recording as illustrated in . As discussed above the nonlimiting example of illustrates that in utilizing an IP analyzer for recording across a network such as a WAN ATM the Internet etc. both the communication data and the control data can be sent to a desired load balancer and or recorder.

One should also note that depending on the particular configuration the IP analyzer can be configured to receive control data interpret the received control data. Additionally depending on the particular embodiment the IP analyzer can issue a start record command a stop record command and or other commands one or more recorders.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand while the flowcharts and sequence diagrams discussed in this disclosure are illustrated as occurring in a particular order this is a nonlimiting example. The steps in this disclosure can occur in any of a plurality of different orders and may include more or fewer steps than illustrated herein. Additionally while the steps in relate to steps that are performed by load balancer and the steps in are performed by a link protector these are also a nonlimiting examples. As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand depending on the particular configuration one or more of the steps can be performed by a different component than described in those examples.

One should note that the flowcharts and sequence diagrams included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of a possible implementation of logic. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a hardware component a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should also note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

