---

title: Detecting unintended recipients of electronic communications
abstract: A computer-implemented method, including receiving information indicative of a request to send an electronic communication to a recipient; executing by one or more computer systems one or more validation operations to determine whether the recipient is an intended recipient of the electronic communication by producing a validation score; determining, based on comparison of the validation score to a threshold value, that the recipient is an unintended recipient of the electronic communication; and when detecting the recipient as an unintended recipient, notifying the sender that the recipient is potentially an unintended recipient of the electronic communication prior to sending.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892672&OS=08892672&RS=08892672
owner: FMR LLC
number: 08892672
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140128
---
Electronic correspondence such as email can create unintended information dissemination outside of an organization or delivery of information to unintended recipients within an organization.

In some implementations a method includes receiving information indicative of a request to send an electronic communication to a recipient executing by one or more computer systems one or more validation operations to determine whether the recipient is an intended recipient of the electronic communication by producing a validation score determining based on comparison of the validation score to a threshold value that the recipient is an unintended recipient of the electronic communication and when detecting the recipient as an unintended recipient notifying the sender that the recipient is the unintended recipient of the electronic communication. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation causes or cause the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

Various implementations may include one or more of the following features and actions. In one implementation the validation score is a recipient distance value and wherein a validation operation comprises accessing hierarchical information with an item of hierarchical information representing an entity with the hierarchical information representing relationships among entities and with the recipient and a sender of the electronic communication being represented in the hierarchical information identifying in the accessed hierarchical information a sender item of hierarchical information that represents the sender and a recipient item of hierarchical information that represents the recipient calculating the recipient distance value between the sender item of hierarchical information that represents the sender and the recipient item of hierarchical information that represents the recipient and determining based on the recipient distance value whether the recipient item of hierarchical information is an outlier with an increased amount of distance to the sender item of hierarchical information relative to other distances of other items of hierarchical information to the sender item of hierarchical information.

In other implementations the actions include determining whether the recipient item of hierarchical information is the outlier comprises determining whether the recipient distance value exceeds a threshold distance value. The recipient distance value can be a weighted value and wherein the method further comprises identifying an edge in a graph between a node representing the user and a node representing the recipient determining a weight associated with the edge and calculating the recipient distance value based on the weight. The actions include when the recipient item of hierarchical information is a determined outlier updating a graphical user interface that displays on a display device associated with the sender information indicative of a name of the recipient with the updated graphical user interface causing the information indicative of the name of the recipient to change from a first color to a second color to notify the sender that the recipient could be the unintended recipient. The actions include when the recipient item of hierarchical information is not determined to be an outlier causing the electronic communication to be sent to the recipient.

In still other implementations the hierarchical information comprises one or more of a global address list Lightweight Directory Access Protocol information and a social network graph of a social networking platform wherein a node in the social network graph represents the sender and wherein another node in the social network graph represents the recipient. The recipient distance value comprises a degree of separation value. The hierarchical information comprises one or more of information specifying an arrangement of nodes that specify users of a social networking platform and information specifying relationships among the nodes and information specifying an arrangement of nodes that represents employees of an entity and information specifying a hierarchy of the nodes. A validation operation comprises determining whether information representing the recipient is included in a pre approved recipient list. A validation operation comprises determining whether information representing the recipient is included in a list that specifies entities to whom the sender previously sent electronic communications. Notifying comprises causing a sender of the electronic communication to be prompted to confirm sending of the electronic communication to the recipient or adjusting the color of the recipient to indicate the possible unintended party.

All or part of the foregoing may be implemented as a computer program product including instructions that are stored on one or more non transitory machine readable storage media and or one or more machine readable hardware storage devices that are executable on one or more processing devices. All or part of the foregoing may be implemented as an apparatus method or electronic system that may include one or more processing devices and memory to store executable instructions to implement the stated functions.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the techniques described herein will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A system consistent with this disclosure detects when a proposed recipient of an electronic communication is an unintended recipient. There are various types of electronic communications including e.g. electronic mail e mail messages sender text messages SMS Protocol Independent Multicast PIM messages and so forth. Generally an unintended recipient is a recipient that a sender of the electronic communication unintentionally erroneously and or inadvertently selected to receive the electronic communication. Upon detection of an unintended recipient the system notifies the sender that the recipient included on the electronic communication may not be the sender s intended recipient.

Referring now to system includes a client device a network a server social networking system and a data repository . Using information input by user client device generates electronic communication . The client device and the server communicate with each other over network and can run programs having a client server relationship to each other. Server is associated with a particular company e.g. a financial institution organization university and so forth.

Electronic communication includes information indicative of one or more recipients. Client device transmits electronic message to server . In response server analyzes contents of electronic communication and executes validation operations to detect if one of more of the specified recipients are unintended recipients. Server executes various validation operations in detecting unintended recipients including e.g. an operation to determine if a recipient is specified in a list of pre approved recipients an operation to determine if a recipient is socially connected in a social network to a sender of the electronic communication an operation to determine if a recipient was previously sent another electronic communication by the sender an operation to determine a degree of separation in an organizational structure between the sender and the recipient and so forth.

In this example server obtains from data repository hierarchical information pertaining to the user and proposed recipients of the electronic communication . Generally hierarchical information includes a series of nodes that are arranged in a hierarchy as further described in . A node represents an entity e.g. an individual a group a user and so forth . In an example the hierarchical information pertains to an organization of a company with each node representing an employee of the company. In this example nodes representing a chief executive officer CEO is arranged above nodes that represent mid level management.

Server also retrieves from data repository pre approved recipient information including e.g. information specifying one or more recipients that are specified by user as being validated and or pre approved for user to transmit electronic communication. In an example a pre approved recipient is a contact of an email application or a contact who is saved in an address book. In another example the pre approved recipient information includes recipients identified by an organization that employs user or otherwise has an association with user . Server also retrieves from data repository and or from social networking system social networking information including e.g. information indicative of one or more users of social networking system who are socially connected to user in the social networking system. In an example server retrieves from social networking system in real time and upon receipt of email message social networking information and stores social networking information in data repository . In a variation data repository is an optional component that provides server with an application programming interface API for real time analysis.

System also retrieves a list of prior recipient information including e.g. information specifying one or more recipients of electronic communications that are sent by user . System tracks electronic communications that are sent by user and stores in data repository the list of recipients who previously received electronic communications from user . As described in further detail below the server uses the pre approved recipient information social networking information prior recipient information and hierarchical information in validating a proposed recipient of the electronic communication .

Hierarchical information generally includes information obtained from a directory e.g. a global address list GAL a lightweight directory access protocol LDAP an application programming interface API and an organization chart. For example the GAL provides information pertaining to the recipient e.g. e mail title name members of a distribution group and the organization chart provides information pertaining to the relationship between the sender and the recipient. In this example the sender and the recipient each represent a node and their relationship to each other is represented by their connections e.g. edges as defined by the organization chart. In another example the LDAP protocol information includes information pertaining to the recipient and organizational information pertaining to the relationship between the sender and the recipient. In this example server retrieves the organization information from internal systems and parses the organization information to determine hierarchical information.

The hierarchical information is stored in data repository . This organization information represents the relationship between the sender e.g. user and an original recipient. A node corresponds to a member of the organization with an edge showing the connection between the two members. Using hierarchical information server determines a recipient distance value including e.g. information specifying the degrees of separation in a graph e.g. a social network graph an organizational graph and so forth between the node representing the sender of the electronic communication e.g. the user and the node representing an original recipient of the electronic communication. Using the recipient distance value server detects whether an email recipient that is an outlier e.g. a recipient associated with a recipient distance value that exceeds a threshold value which is customizable by an administrator of the system. For example an outlier indicates a recipient distance value that is beyond the acceptable threshold value as defined by a validation standard established by the organization and or the sender. In this example recipient distance value is calculated as the shortest path between two nodes e.g. the node representing the sender and the node representing the recipient in an organization chart

In an example co workers designated in groups of which the user is a member will have a lower recipient distance value than those not associated with the user . For example a direct supervisor of the user will have a recipient distance value of one with respect to the user . In another example group members e.g. co workers directly supervised by a direct supervisor of user will have a recipient distance value of two with respect to the user . In yet another example co workers in a group supervised by a supervisor not associated with the user will have a recipient distance value of at least three with respect to the user .

Server retrieves social networking information of the user from social networking system through the application programming interface API of social networking system . The social networking information includes a social graph with a series of nodes that are arranged to represent relationships and or social connections between the sender and members of the specific social network. A node corresponds to a user in the social network with an edge showing the connection between the two users. The server uses data acquired from the social graph to calculate the degrees of separation between the user and an original recipient of electronic communication . For example social networking system defines connections between nodes representing users as friendships. If the user and the original recipient are friends in social networking system there is a direct connection between the user and the recipient and thus one degree of separation.

Using pre approved recipient information server generates various validation scores that are used in validating the recipient as an intended recipient. The validation scores include pre approved recipient scores hierarchical scores social networking scores and prior recipient scores. Pre approved recipient score includes a value that specifies whether a recipient of email message is included in pre approved recipient information . Pre approved recipient score has a Boolean value of either one or zero. A value of zero specifies that a recipient is not included in the pre approved recipient information . A value of one specifies that a recipient is included in the pre approved recipient information .

Using hierarchical information server generates hierarchical score e.g. the recipient distance value that specifies the number of degrees of separation in hierarchical information between a node representing user and a node representing the recipient of electronic communication . Hierarchical score can have various values including e.g. a value of one to indicate one degree of separation a value of two to indicate two degrees of separation and so forth.

In a variation the hierarchical score is a weighted value based on weights associated with an edge between nodes in the hierarchical information. For example in an organization that has a flat structure meaning relatively few levels compared to highly structure organizations with many levels as exemplified in organization charts the recipient distance value between the user and a high level supervisor e.g. a chief executive officer CEO may be low. In this example the edge connections between the user and the high level supervisor is weighted.

There are various ways in which server determines the weight values for particular hierarchical information. In an example a user of server assigns validation weights to pre approved recipients social network connections previous correspondents and remote colleagues in a hierarchy. In another example server retrieves from an external system not shown weight values for various types of hierarchical information.

Referring to visual representation of hierarchical information includes nodes . Node represents the CEO of an organization. Nodes represent team leads of the organization. Nodes represent programmers in the organization. The edge between node and each of nodes is associated with a weighted value of eight to specify that a team lead has a decreased likelihood of wanting to contact the CEO relative to the likelihood of a team lead wanting to contact a programmer even though the team lead is one degree of separation away from both the CEO and the programmer. As described in further detail below the inverse of the number of degrees of separation is used in validating a recipient as an intended recipient of an electronic communication. The edge between node and node is associated with a weighted value of one to specify that a team lead has an increased likelihood of wanting to contact a programmer relative to the likelihood of a team lead wanting to contact the CEO.

Using social networking information server generates social networking score e.g. a value that specifies whether a recipient of email message is socially connected to user in social networking platform . Social networking score has a Boolean value of either one or zero. A value of one specifies that a recipient is socially connected to user . A value of zero specifies that a recipient is not socially connected to user .

In another example social networking score has an absolute value that is indicative of a number of degrees of separation in social networking platform between a node representing user and a node representing the recipient of electronic communication . In this example a value of one for social networking score specifies that user and the recipient of electronic message have one degree of separation and are friends. In this example a value of two for social networking score specifies that user and the recipient of electronic message have two degrees of separation and are friends of friends in social networking platform .

Using prior recipient information server generates prior recipient score e.g. a value that specifies whether a recipient of email message has previously been the recipient of an electronic communication sent by user . Prior recipient score has a Boolean value of either one or zero. A value of one specifies that a recipient is a prior recipient. A value of zero specifies that a recipient is not a prior recipient.

Server also retrieves weights and for pre approved recipient score hierarchical score social networking score and prior recipient score respectively. Generally a weight is a value specifying an importance of an item of information relative to importance of other items of information. Server applies the respective weights and to pre approved recipient score hierarchical score social networking score and prior recipient score respectively in determining whether a recipient of electronic communication is an unintended recipient.

Server receives from user information specifying values for weights and . The user specifies values for weights and based on preferences of the user. In an example the user perceives pre approved recipients as being a particularly strong validation factor e.g. relative to the perceived strength of other types of hierarchical information. The user specifies an increased value for weight for a recipient identified as a pre approved recipient relative to the values specified for weights and . In another example the user perceives organizational and hierarchical information as being a particularly strong validation factor e.g. relative to the perceived strength of other types of hierarchical information. The user specifies an increased value for weight for a recipient having a low recipient distance value.

Server also stores in data repository validation standard . The validation standard specifies parameters and or thresholds for identifying an unintended recipient and an intended recipient. Generally an intended recipient is a recipient that server confirms as being correctly specified by a user. When the various scores satisfy the validation standard server determines that an original recipient of electronic communication is an intended recipient. When the validation information fails to satisfy the validation standard server determines that the original recipient of the electronic communication is an unintended recipient and notifies the sender of the possibility of an unintended recipient. The validation standard may include any combination of the below described standards that are implemented in any order.

In an example the validation standard indicates that a recipient identified as a pre approved recipient is automatically validated e.g. when the pre approved recipient score has a value of one. In another example when the social networking score is a Boolean value the validation standard indicates that when the social networking score has a value of one that an original recipient is validated as an intended recipient. When the social networking score is an integer value based on the degrees of separation between user and a recipient in social networking platform server determines that when recipient distance value between a node representing user and a node representing the recipient exceeds a threshold value that the proposed recipient is an unintended recipient.

In yet another example the validation standard indicates that a recipient identified as a prior recipient of electronic correspondence is automatically validated e.g. when the prior recipient score has a value of one. In certain cases recipients identified as frequent and prior recipients of electronic correspondence are automatically validated. In this example a frequent recipient of electronic correspondence is a recipient who has received electronic correspondence at least twice. When server determines that a recipient is not a prior recipient server may still validate the recipient by determining whether the recipient is a pre approved recipient and or has a recipient distance value as specified in social networking information or hierarchical information that is less than a threshold value.

In another example the validation standard indicates that when the hierarchical score e.g. recipient distance value between nodes in hierarchal information is above a threshold value that the proposed recipient is an outlier or unintended recipient. Upon detection of the unintended recipient server notifies user of the potential of an unintended recipient. When the hierarchical score is less than the threshold value server may either validate the recipient as an intended user or may proceed to execute additional validation operations such as determining whether the recipient is a pre approved recipient is a prior recipient is socially connected to the user and so forth .

In still another example validation standard specifies that a user is validated as an intended user when an aggregate validation score exceeds a threshold value. An aggregate validation score is a value based on at least two of validation scores. There are various ways in which server determines the validation weight values for particular hierarchical information. In an example a user of server assigns validation weights to pre approved recipients social network connections previous correspondents and remote colleagues. In another example server retrieves from an external system not shown validation weight values for various types of hierarchical information. Server validates whether a recipient is an intended recipient based on pre approved recipient score hierarchical score social networking score prior recipient score and associated weights as shown in the below Table 1 

As shown in the above Table 1 server computes an aggregate validation score by applying an additive mathematical operation to the product of the hierarchical weight and the inverse of the hierarchal score the product of the pre approved weight and the pre approved recipient score the product of the social networking weight and the social networking score and the product of the prior recipient weight and the prior recipient score. Although the example in Table 1 is provided with an additive mathematical operation other mathematical operations could be used.

When server validates a recipient as being an intended recipient server enables transmittal of electronic communication to the recipient. In an example server validates a recipient when the aggregate validation score exceeds a threshold value. When server is unable to validate a recipient as being an intended recipient server notifies the user that a recipient is an unintended recipient and prompts the sender for instructions on how to proceed as described in further detail below.

Referring to hierarchy e.g. a graph of an organization hierarchy includes various nodes that represent entities e.g. individuals and or employees in an organization e.g. a company . Edges between nodes represents relationships between the various nodes. An edge between two nodes represents a distance of one e.g. one degree of separation. In some examples an edge may be associated with a weighted value e.g. weighted to specify an increased amount of likelihood that a user represented by one node erroneously and or unintentionally contacts another user represented by another node. As described below hierarchy may be used for analyzing potential unintended recipients of inter office and or inter organizational communications.

Referring to graphs represent social networks. In this example graph includes nodes that represent users of the social network and edges to represent relationships among the users. In an example an edge may be weighted to specify an increased likelihood that a user of the social graph is erroneously contacting another user of the social graph. Graph includes nodes that represent users of the social network and edges to represent relationships among the users.

In the numbers inside the nodes represent a particular person. For example in H represents a particular individual. In the numbering inside the nodes also represent particular people such that the same number scheme in as in represents the same person. For example the H in H in specifies a representation of the person specified as person in an organizational hierarchy H . In the same person is represented as S with the S specifying that it is the representation of the person represented as in a social hierarchy.

As previously described server determines whether a recipient of an electronic message is an unintended recipient based on various factors e.g. distance between the sender and the recipient in an organization hierarchy distance between the sender and the recipient in a social graph whether the sender has previously corresponded with the recipient whether the recipient is an established contact of the sender e.g. whether the recipient is included in an address book of the sender and so forth.

Server implements various rules and operations to determine whether a recipient is an unintended recipient in accordance with the algorithm shown below.

As shown above server executes an algorithm e.g. a series of rules that specifies that a user is notified that a recipient is an unintended recipient when the following condition is satisfied Min W D W D . . . D B B . The notification during the send request leverages both relational and logical operations. Primary check is around the set of social graph sources providing weighted degrees of separation providing a base likelihood of relationship e.g. W D W D . . . . This primary check is then logically compared with historical or user configured sources e.g. B B . In this example server generates a notification when a minimum value of hierarchical degrees of separation exceeds a threshold degree of separation e.g. Min W D W D . . . and when the recipient is either not an established contact of the sender or the sender has not had prior communication with recipient e.g. B B . In an example when server generates a notification server also logs and journals the flagged content for review by an organization to better support organizational firewalls and data loss prevention.

Server also includes memory a bus system and a processor . Memory can include a hard drive and a random access memory storage device such as a dynamic random access memory machine readable media machine readable hardware storage devices or other types of non transitory machine readable storage devices. A bus system including for example a data bus and a motherboard can be used to establish and to control data communication between the components of server . Processor may include one or more microprocessors and or processing devices. Generally processor may include any appropriate processor and or logic that is capable of receiving and storing data and of communicating over a network not shown .

Server can be any of a variety of computing devices capable of receiving data such as a server a distributed computing system a desktop computer a laptop a cell phone a rack mounted server and so forth. Server may be a single server or a group of servers that are at a same location or at different locations. The illustrated server can receive data from client devices via input output I O interface . I O interface can be any type of interface capable of receiving data over a network such as an Ethernet interface a wireless networking interface a fiber optic networking interface a modem and so forth.

In a variation the operations described herein may be performed client side e.g. on client device . In this example client device may download from server via network an application that is executable on client device to perform the operations described herein for determining when a recipient of an electronic communication is potentially an unintended recipient.

Referring now to server implements process to determine whether a proposed recipient is an outlier e.g. by generating an aggregate validation score and determining whether the aggregate validation score exceeds a threshold. In this example server receives and evaluates the request to send an electronic communication for a proposed recipient e.g. a recipient listed in the to field of an electronic communication the cc carbon copy field of an electronic communication the bcc blind carbon copy field of an electronic communication. . In operation server validates the proposed recipient against social networking information. For example a proposed recipient that is associated with the sender in a social networking platform is validated e.g. by validating that the sender and the recipient are socially connected in the social networking platform by validating that the sender and the recipient are each members of the same social networking platform and so forth. In this example the external system is a professional virtual network e.g. LinkedIn and an association is a connection between two nodes in a network graph with a node represent a user of the professional virtual network. In another example the external system is a social network e.g. Facebook and an association is a social connection e.g. friendship between two nodes in a social graph of the social network with a node in the social graph representing a user of the social network. Based on the validation server generates a social networking score.

Server also validates the proposed recipient against the sender s prior recipients of electronic correspondence e.g. previously sent emails . In this validation operation server generates a prior recipient score. Server also calculates 308 a hierarchical score e.g. a recipient distance value based on hierarchical information e.g. an organization chart. Server also validates the proposed recipient against a pre approved list and generates a pre approved recipient score based on the results of the validation. For example server validates a proposed recipient that is designated as a pre approved recipient. The pre approved list is established and or updated by the sender and or the organization.

Server applies not shown weighted values to one or more of the pre approved recipient score the hierarchical score the social networking score and the prior recipient score. Server applies one or more mathematical operations to the weighted and the pre approved recipient score the hierarchical score the social networking score and the prior recipient score to generate the aggregate validation score as shown in the above Table 1. Server retrieves 312 from data reposition a pre determined threshold value that is stored as part of the threshold standard .

To evaluate the relationship between the sender and the proposed recipient server compares the aggregate validation score with a pre determined threshold value as defined by the validation standard.

Server detects if a proposed recipient is an outlier recipient by comparing the aggregate validation score to the predetermined threshold values. In a variation of server detects if a proposed recipient is an outlier by comparing at least one of the validation results and or the recipient distance value with the validation standard. An outlier recipient includes a recipient associated with a validation score that fails to satisfy a threshold value and is thus indicative of the recipient being an unintended recipient.

If the proposed recipient fails to satisfy the criteria as defined by the validation standard e.g. the aggregate validation score is less than the threshold value the proposed recipient is categorized as an outlier. If the proposed recipient is not an outlier server allows the electronic correspondence to be sent to the recipient. If an outlier is detected server notifies the user that an outlier is detected. This notification includes a modal notification. In another example this notification includes a change in color in the display of the electronic correspondence of the names of the recipients that are determined to be outliers. Server receives from a client device associated with the sender confirmation to send the electronic communication and server sends the electronic communication. Confirmation is actively provided by the user e.g. by positive confirmation in a modal dialog box. In another example confirmation is inferred based on the sender s action despite the user interface change. In this example the user is notified by the change in color in the address fields and proceeds with sending the electronic communication anyway. Execution of process provides an indication of a possibility that a recipient is an unintended recipient.

Referring now to graphical user interface is displayed on a display device of a client device of a user who is drafting an email. In this example the client device is in communication with server . Graphical user interface includes recipient portion e.g. a portion that displaying information specifying a recipient of the email. While drafting the email text Jane Doe displayed in recipient portion is a first color e.g. the color black . The user selects send button to cause the email message to be sent to server for analysis. Upon detecting that the recipient is an unintended recipient server sends back to the client device instructions to change the color of the text in the recipient portion to another color e.g. red to notify the user that the recipient is an unintended recipient as shown in . In a variation a client device on which the email is composed may include software and or an application to perform the operations described herein to detect whether a proposed recipient is an unintended recipient.

Referring to recipient portion is depicted in red to specify that the recipient Jane Doe may be an unintended recipient. If the user detects that the recipient is incorrect the user enters a new recipient in recipient portion . If the user detects that the recipient is correct the user selects send button to confirm that the recipient is correct and to transmit the mail to the recipient.

Referring to server generates information for a graphical user interface to notify the user that a proposed recipient of an electronic communication is an outlier and to request confirmation for how to proceed. Graphical user interface is a modal dialog box that is displayed as an overlay on another graphical user interface e.g. a graphical user interface that allows a user to draft contents of an electronic message . Graphical user interface includes a notification message a confirmation request portion and a substitute recipient portion . Various other types of mechanisms such as check boxes drop down boxes and the like may be used to allow a user to selection options for a given input field. Generally graphical user interface includes a modal dialog box that remains on the display until the user has entered the requested information. For example the modal dialog box remains on the screen until the user characterizes the proposed recipient as an intended recipient by clicking Yes or as an unintended recipient by clicking No. When the user specified that the proposed recipient is an intended recipient via selection of Yes in confirmation request portion server transmits the electronic communication to a device associated with the recipient.

In this example if the proposed recipient is an unintended recipient as indicated by the sender selecting No in confirmation request portion the graphical user interface remains open and permits the user to submit in substitute recipient portion the correct e mail address of the user s intended recipient. In an example the entry of a substitute email address automatically signifies that the proposed recipient was unintended. Server stores a record of all confirmed unintended recipients. Prior unintended recipients are used as another validation factor in addition to and or in combination with the above described validation factors. For example recipients that are confirmed being unintended at least a pre determined number of times are automatically identified as unintended recipients.

Graphical user interface can further include a field not shown through which the user can instruct the server to add the potential unintended recipient to the pre approved recipient list. The receipt of instructions to add the user to the pre approved recipient list also serves as confirmation that the user intended to send the email to the proposed recipient.

Embodiments can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations thereof. Apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied or stored in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method actions can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The techniques described herein can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Each computer program can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language.

Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Generally a computer will include one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM disks. Any of the foregoing can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

Other embodiments are within the scope and spirit of the description claims. Additionally due to the nature of software functions described above can be implemented using software hardware firmware hardwiring or combinations of any of these. Features implementing functions may also be physically located at various positions including being distributed such that portions of functions are implemented at different physical locations. The use of the term a herein and throughout the application is not used in a limiting manner and therefore is not meant to exclude a multiple meaning or a one or more meaning for the term a. Additionally to the extent priority is claimed to a provisional patent application it should be understood that the provisional patent application is not limiting but includes examples of how the techniques described herein may be implemented.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims and the examples of the techniques described herein.

