---

title: System and method for conducting on-line tournament contest
abstract: Systems and methods for conducting on-line tournaments, and in particular such tournaments as permit participants to receive prizes without having to place wagers. Participants are permitted to enroll in an on-line tournament pool and submit tokens. The tokens act as each respective participant's prediction regarding the outcome of one or more events associated with a sporting event or other contest. Tokens may be completed “brackets” representing a participant's prediction of winners of all games in various rounds of a sporting event, or partially completed brackets representing the participant's prediction of winners of only some games thereof. Cash prizes are awarded for top scoring participants but no wagers or entry fees of any kind are accepted from or required to be paid by the participants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589422&OS=09589422&RS=09589422
owner: KIZZANG LLC
number: 09589422
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140312
---
This is a NONPROVISIONAL of claims priority to and incorporates by reference 1 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 800 080 filed Mar. 15 2013 and 2 U.S. Provisional Application 61 895 782 filed Oct. 25 2013.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for conducting on line tournaments and in particular such tournaments as permit participants to receive prizes without having to place wagers.

Sports wagering is an activity enjoyed by many and typically involves placing wagers on the outcome of one or more events including but not limited to the final outcome of a subject match. In the United States it is illegal for individuals or enterprises to engage in the business of assisting or facilitating the placing of such wagers over wire communication facilities . Laws in this area have been generally interpreted as forbidding the use of Internet web sites based in or perhaps even accessible to persons residing in the United States for the purposes of sports betting.

There exist many different forms of bracket pools each offering participants different ways to win. The most popular pool involves participants filling out brackets by trying to pick winners of different games at each stage of tournament play. Entry fees for such pools may vary from a few dollars to hundreds or even thousands of dollars depending on the enterprise running the pool. The winner is generally the participant that picks the most correct winners with final game score predictions often being used as tiebreakers. In one common variation of this pool the points per win vary as the tournament progresses through different rounds.

In addition to the simple bracket pool other popular forms of tournament wagering schemes include bidding pools where teams are auctioned off and awarded to the highest bidder with the owner of the ultimate winning team them collecting all of the pool receipts. Lottery pools are sometimes used at intermediate rounds of the National College Athletics Association s NCAA Division I men s basketball tournament and involve participants drawing for lots then selecting teams in order of their lot values. This well known sporting event which culminates each year in the Final Four teams facing off against one another in a pair of national semi final games and one national final game is among the most watched and most heavily wagered upon event of its kind Each March during the NCAA tournament office bracket pools are commonplace and it has been estimated that the 100 Million or so that is earned by licensed casinos through wagers on the tournament games represents only a small fraction of the total amount of money spent by Americans on such activities.

Box pools which are used with virtually all spots in wagering schemes involve assigning participants to boxes on a grid the two axes of the grid representing the two competing teams in a game and then populating the grid with numbers usually ranging from 0 9 . The numbers represent the teams respective scores usually just the last number of the respective scores for a basketball game and the winner is the participant that owns the box representing the final score or a score at half time etc. .

A common feature of all of the above described pools is that participants wager on the outcome. That is participants agree to pay a certain amount of money usually collected by the pool organizer as a condition for entry into the pool for the privilege of being allowed to participate in the pool with the hope of winning a prize depending on the outcome of the underlying game or set of games. As such these pools would all be illegal in the United States if conducted over the Internet.

Methods and systems configured in accordance with embodiments of the present invention comply with restrictions placed on wagering over wire communication facilities while at the same time permitting participants to engage in activities that can result in the participants winning prizes depending on the outcome of sporting or other events.

Described herein are systems and methods for conducting on line tournaments and in particular such tournaments as permit participants to receive prizes without having to place wagers. In one embodiment of the invention participants are permitted to enroll in an on line tournament and submit tokens. The tokens act as each respective participant s prediction regarding the outcome of one or more events associated with a sporting event or other contest. For example tokens may be completed brackets representing a participant s prediction of winners of various games in various rounds of a basketball tournament.

The present invention avoids the above described complications with bracket pools offered over the Internet by making participation in a pool completely free of charge. That is participants are not required to pay any money for partaking in the pool. As such the pool may be lawfully conducted through the facilities of an Internet web site and participants may enter into the pool over the Internet by visiting the site. At the same time participants will be eligible for prizes usually but not always necessarily in the form of cash payments. In one embodiment the cash payments are provided via a debit card issued to a winning participant by the operator of the Web site or a partner financial institution.

As shown in users may interact with a server hosting the subject Web site via any or all of personal computers tablet computers and or mobile devices smartphones . Such interaction may take place over any network or network of networks such as the Internet . More generally users may make use of the methods or processes described herein though or using various computer based devices. Such devices may include any electronic device capable of performing the actions described herein using suitable programming and where applicable processing the information for display so as to properly convey the information to a user. Examples of such devices include desktop computers laptop computers cellphones smartphones tablet computers computer game consoles portable computer gaming consoles media players portable media players other mobile devices and the like.

To facilitate access by hundreds or even thousands of client devices e.g. personal computers tablet computers and or mobile devices smartphones server may be a server farm with appropriate load balancers so as to provide each player with a satisfactory gaming experience that involves minimal latency. Instances of server are configured by a tournament organizer to provide the same game to all players who participate in the tournament. Notification of the tournament the tournament rules playing conditions etc. may be provided to individual players upon such players logging in to a respective account through which the players may access the tournament if and when they choose to do so. For a player engaged in the tournament his or her playing time will commence at a date and time of his or her own choosing within the defined tournament play period.

Processor may communicate and control other peripherals such as display with associated touch screen sensor . Processor causes images to be displayed on display and receives input from the touch screen sensor when a user presses on the touch screen display. In some examples touch screen sensor may be a multi touch sensor capable of distinguishing and processing gestures.

Processor may receive input from a physical keyboard . In other examples the device may utilize a touch screen keyboard using display and touch screen sensor . Processor may produce audio output and other alerts that are played on the speaker . Microphone may be used as an input device for processor to receive commands using voice processing software.

Accelerometer provides input on the motion of the device to processor . Accelerometer may be used in motion sensitive applications or for example in connection with scrolling content using tilting gestures etc. Bluetooth module may be used to communicate with Bluetooth enabled external devices. USB port enables external connections to other devices e.g. mice or other cursor control devices supporting the USB standard and charging capabilities. USB port may include all the functionality to connect to and establish a connection with an external device over USB. External storage module may include any form of removable physical storage media such as a flash drive micro SD card SD card Memory Stick and the like. External storage module may include all the functionality needed to interface with these media.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules or components may constitute software modules e.g. code embodied on a non transitory machine readable medium or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors including processor may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules may provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connects the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and may operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but also deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS service. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program may be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it may be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations may also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a Graphics Processing Unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a User Interface UI controller e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device e.g. a transmitter .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions illustrated herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device using any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any of the one or more of the methodologies illustrated herein. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic medium.

Method embodiments discussed herein may be computer implemented. Some embodiments may include computer readable media encoded with a computer program e.g. software which includes instructions operable to cause an electronic device to perform methods of various embodiments. A software implementation or computer implemented method may include microcode assembly language code or a higher level language code which further may include computer readable instructions for performing various methods. The code may form portions of computer program products. Further the code may be tangibly stored on one or more volatile or non volatile computer readable media during execution or at other times. These computer readable media may include but are not limited to hard disks removable magnetic disks removable optical disks e.g. compact disks and digital video disks magnetic cassettes memory cards or sticks Random Access Memories RAMs Read Only Memories ROMs and the like.

As indicated above participants do not need to pay to enter the on line pools hosted at the Web site running on server . Instead funding for the Web site operations may be provided through secondary means for example the sale of advertising. Thus participants may be required to view one or more advertisements before they are allowed to participate in games or pools provided at the subject Web site and the advertisers may pay the site operators in exchange for presenting their ads. In other embodiments funding may be provided through alternative means. For example participants may agree to receive marketing materials other then just on line advertisements of site sponsors in exchange for being permitted to play games and or participate in pools. Those sponsors may pay the site operators for facilitating such delivery of the marketing materials.

In a particular embodiment of the invention the web site is preferentially accessed through one or more applications running on a mobile phone. This may be one or more special purpose applications designed to call particular application programming interfaces exposed via the subject Web site to facilitate efficient exchanges of information there between and or it may be a web browser running on the mobile phone and access may be made in the fashion common to such browsers. The site operators may provide the mobile phone to the participants free of charge. That is participants may receive the mobile phones as gifts without any obligation to purchase service contracts or pay for any use of the phone for voice data text or other services and in exchange may be presented with and agree to receive advertising information through the mobile phones. Unlike current plans offered by wireless service carriers that require mobile phone users to subscribe to a network for a particular length of time in order to receive a reduced fee or even free mobile phone the present inventor contemplates providing participants with mobile phone completely free of any such requirements. By providing exceptional content e.g. the gaming activities and customer service the inventor believes that participant loyalty can be maintained. Further advertisers seeking to gain the attention of the participants should be willing to pay the site operator for having the operator present their ads to the participants via the mobile phones. Even wireless service carriers may be willing to provide reduced cost access to their networks in exchange for bulk purchases of airtime and data transport by the site operator. Thus the mobile phones are provided to the users completely free of charge without any service contract obligations or other restrictions. Content delivered to the phone however is restricted to that which the provider wishes to provide.

Among the various game content that may be provided by the site operator are traditional casino games e.g. blackjack baccarat craps poker slots progressive slots keno etc. the pool contests discussed above lotteries role playing games first person shooter games strategy games etc. Some or all of these games may offer cash prizes to winners with the funds for such prizes coming from the fees paid by advertisers and or insurance policies. In the latter case insurance policies may be purchased by the site operators to guard against the risk of a winner of a substantial cash prize. An example of such a cash prize is discussed further below. In addition to games other facilities such as Internet search music and audio video services text messaging etc. can all be facilitated through channels controlled by the site operator. This ensures both a consistent user experience and quality of service as well as guarantying advertisers access to the participants.

To access the subject Web site participants may be required to register. The registration process may include providing personal information such as names dates of birth social security number for tax reporting purposes in respect of significant prize awards driver s license numbers etc. As part of the registration process participants may be permitted to select unique user name password combinations so as to be able to identify themselves during return visits to the subject site. When the site is accessed via dedicated apps on a mobile device the same user name password combinations may be employed as identification means. In some instances personally identifying information of a participant may subject to participant authorization be provided to sponsors of the subject Web site for lead generation purposes. In other instances the site may include logic that parses the participant s personal information develops participant profiles based on same and then recommends to each participant one or more sponsors advertising or other materials based on that profile. In still further instances the site may include logic that based on the participant information crawls one or more social network sites to identify existing personal profiles of the participants and uses those social network profiles as the basis for making recommendations.

Upon registration participants will be verified. This may be done for example through the use of state department of motor vehicle records credit reports utility company bills state or county property records etc. Verification is important to ensure that minors are not permitted access to any restricted materials or games at or through the site or the mobile phone if so provided by the site operators . Users that cannot be verified may not be permitted access to the site or may be permitted only limited access which prevents such participants from accessing any age restricted materials etc.

As an example of the gaming facilities provided through the subject web site consider a form of bracket pool that may be offered during a basketball tournament. Importantly entry into the pool is free to the participant. No cash wagers are required or permitted. Cash prizes are however available to winners and may be financed through funds received from advertisers and in some instances insurance policies.

Participants in the pool are permitted to fill out and submit traditional brackets. Prior to submitting the brackets however participants are required to view one or more advertisements. Alternatively advertisements e.g. in the form of banner ads etc. may be presented to the participants as they are filling out the brackets or participating in other activities at the subject Web site. Completed brackets must be submitted before tipoff of the opening game of the tournament and or in accordance with time windows described below. In the case where not all teams are known prior to the commencement of the first game e.g. for tournaments having a play your way in round options may be provided for participants to select either or both teams playing in such a game so as to permit completion of an entire bracket. Alternatively the win and you re in team may be automatically populated into the bracket once known and participants provided a bye for such rounds. In the event the participant wishes to designate that team as advancing in the tournament by winning a first second or other round game following the play your way in round the brackets which are completed electronically may provide for designating the team by proxy if not by name.

As an incentive to entice participation in the pool a substantial cash prize e.g. on the order of millions or even tens of millions of dollars may be offered for a perfect bracket that is a correct selection of all winners of all games during the entire tournament. An additional bonus may be offered for predicting the final score of the championship game. Special insurance products may be purchased by the site operators to guard against the risk of a winner of this prize.

Of course prizes are not just awarded for a perfect bracket and instead may be awarded at each level of play during the tournament. For example a first game may involve the first and second rounds of the tournament following the play your way in round where the field of teams is reduced first from 64 to 32 and then from 32 to 16 the sweet sixteen . At this level prizes may be awarded based on points with pints being accumulated for correctly predicted winning teams game scores or other factors.

At the next level of the tournament the regional semi finals and finals where the remaining 16 teams play down to the elite eight and then to the final four the originally submitted brackets may again serve as the basis for awarding prizes. For example prizes may again be awarded based on point totals after one or both of these rounds of play. In addition a new beat the spread game may be offered for these rounds of play wherein participants are given the opportunity to complete new brackets this time composed of just the remaining 16 teams. Along with the teams participants may be provided point spreads composes by one or more odds makers and the object of the new pool is to beat the spread either by picking the winning team to win by a margin greater than the point spread or to pick the losing team to lose by less than the predicted point spread. Participants may again enter this new pool free of charge with the expectation of winning cash prizes e.g. in exchange for agreeing to and actually watching advertisements.

In all of the embodiments discussed herein a participant s actual attention to an advertisement may be measured by requiring the participant to engage with the advertisement or another on screen or audio prompt at some point. For example if the advertisement is an audio video presentation the participant may be required to press a play button to resume playing of a paused video within a predetermined time interval probably a few seconds . If the participant does not execute such an operation that may be taken as an indication that the participant is not actively watching the advertisements and the participant will not be given credit for same and will not be permitted to submit a bracket. In the case of other forms of advertising different attention monitoring means may be employed. For example a user may have to press a touch screen in a particular location on a graphical image in order to signify his or her active reviewing of the ad. Other attention monitoring means may also be used.

Still further prizes may be offered during the final rounds of the tournament when the final four teams play for the national championship. For example while the originally completed brackets may still be used and winners chosen e.g. based on total points accumulated for correctly picking winning teams a new pool that focuses on the game scores during the semi finals and finals may be instituted. In this pool participants are asked to select the final score of each game of the last three games of the tournament. The winner is the person that has the correct three scores or closest thereto based upon some predetermined metric for computing a closest approximation . Again no cash wagers are permitted no entry fees are charged but winners are competing for cash prizes and agree to watch or receive advertising as a condition for entering the pool.

Some or all of the cash prizes discussed herein may be distributed to winners in the form of debit cards with linked accounts at a partner financial institution. Taxes may be deducted before any winnings are distributed in this fashion. The debit cards may be uniquely identified with the prize winning participants and once distributed the underlying accounts may be used to receive future winnings from games associated with the subject Web site.

In some embodiments the present invention allows players to participate in on line pools devised around start and end dates and times of their own choosing. In one embodiment an on line pool is organized and players are permitted to enter specifying start and end dates and times of their own choosing within a predefined pool window. For example a pool may be scheduled to run over the defined pool window of a scheduled basketball tournament say January 1 to January 30 but a participant may elect to participate only in those games of the tournament that take place during the period from 10 00 AM Eastern Standard Time January 1 through 10 00 PM Eastern Standard Time January 10 by submitting tokens accordingly. More generally a player may compete in a pool having a fixed pool period t but only for those games within the pool that occur within player specified date time boundaries tand t. The winners then are those players who attains a highest or lowest in games where lower scores are deemed to be better than higher scores score and here a score may be determined in any of a variety of ways for example in terms of points dollars or other markers indicative of successful game play and or performance during the defined periods of the pool. In some instances players may be permitted to play multiple tokens of this type during a pool each playing session lasting for a defined period within t while in other cases players may be permitted only a single token per pool. Some pools may have only a single winner while other pools may award prizes for multiple placings by players e.g. first place second place third place etc. . Rules of each pool may vary depending on the game being played.

If the server determines that the player is a member of the service the server determines whether there is an existing pool opportunity in progress . This is essentially a check of whether the time for a pool selected by the player is within the period t. If not the player may be diverted to a schedule that provides information regarding upcoming pool dates times. If however the player s desired pool has commenced the player is provided an opportunity to begin play .

The server then permits the player to participate by submitting one or more depending on the rules pool tokens. In the case of a basketball tournament the tokens may be brackets. AS indicated above the brackets may be for the entire set of games that comprise the tournament to which the pool is directed or may be for a subset of those games defined by tand t. Tokens are permitted according to the rules up to a maximum number of tokens which may be a daily or other limit or the expiration of the time t. Upon completion game play is concluded and the payer s score is determined as the underlying games in the tournament are completed . Upon completion of the tournament the server determines the winner e.g. the player s with the highest score s and the winning player s is are so notified. Optionally player results may be posted in a player s account or other venue where the player can review his her own scores and optionally scores of other players.

Preferably the server logs information concerning a number of aspects of the pool. For example logs that indicate which players participated in a pool when how often and for how long at a time are kept. So too are logs of all player scores pool tokens etc. Logs that record technical faults communication problems etc. that may become the subject of a complaint or may be grounds for providing repeat play opportunities are also kept.

Thus systems and methods for conducting on line pools and in particular such pools as permit participants to receive prizes without having to place wagers have been described. It is an important feature of the present invention that no participant is required or permitted to place wagers on any of the sports activities that are the underlying subject of the pools facilitated through the subject Web site. Nor are wagers required or permitted in connection with any of the other games e.g. casino games etc. . All participants are allowed to play in the pools and games free of charge. Operating costs and in some instances prizes are funded through sales of advertising which participants agree to watch or otherwise interact with as a condition for entering a pool and or playing a game. In various embodiments cash prizes may be provide to winners through debit cards provided by a partner financial institution. In still further embodiments participants may be provided mobile phones free of charge with the entire cost of the phone and any voice data and text plans underwritten by the fees charged by the site operator to advertisers. Content delivered or made available through such a mobile phone in addition to the games and pools discussed above takes the form of a walled garden determined by the site operator or other content provider and includes the advertiser sponsor content. The foregoing description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention can be practiced. These embodiments are also referred to herein as examples. Such examples can include elements in addition to those shown or described. However the present inventor also contemplate examples in which only those elements shown or described are provided. Moreover the present inventor also contemplates examples using any combination or permutation of those elements shown or described or one or more aspects thereof either with respect to a particular example or one or more aspects thereof or with respect to other examples or one or more aspects thereof shown or described herein.

