---

title: System and method for expanded monitoring and control of railroad wayside interlocking systems
abstract: A system and method provides for expanded monitoring and control of a railroad wayside interlocking system that monitors a plurality of track side and train systems and controls a plurality of train and track control devices with a primary control panel system communicating with the interlocking system over a first communication interface and with a remote control panel over a second communication interface, receiving interlocking status messages for visually displaying a current status state of the monitored systems, replicating the received interlocking status messages, determining a current status state for the control devices, communicating replicated interlocking status messages or the determined current status state over the second communication interface to one or more remote control panel systems, and receiving requests from the one or more remote control panel systems, which are then transmitted to the wayside interlocking system by the primary control panel system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321469&OS=09321469&RS=09321469
owner: QuEST Rail LLC
number: 09321469
owner_city: Moberly
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 789 696 filed on Mar. 15 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to railway systems and more specifically to a railroad wayside interlocking system.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may not constitute prior art.

A railway management system often includes a local control panel LCP that is typically co located in a wayside equipment house with a microprocessor or relay based interlocking system for the purpose of field testing maintenance and emergency control when communications to the central control office has failed . An LCP is a non vital device that can request a vital interlocking to change its state e.g. to move a track switch or clear a signal but the change will only be permitted if the vital interlocking determines it is safe to do so. LCPs have switches pushbutton or toggle for entering controls and LEDs or incandescent lamps for indication of device status. For example a pushbutton is pressed to request a track switch to move and its position is indicated normal or reverse via LEDs. The design of an LCP varies based on the type of interlocking control system microprocessor or relay and the capabilities of the interlocking controller. Common implementations of an LCP can include panel mounted switches and lights wired to interposing non vital relays that interface to the interlocking relay circuits panel mounted switches and lights wired to discrete non vital I O of the interlocking controller panel mounted switches and lights wired to or integrated with a microcontroller that interfaces to the interlocking controller through serial communications and a laptop computer or rack mounted touch screen panel that provides a Graphical User Interface GUI and interfaces to the interlocking controller through serial communications. LCPs can be generic for use with any location or customized for a specific location. Typically a Custom Local Control Panel CLCP will have a site specific track layout and nomenclature. The track layout is usually etched or painted on an aluminum panel. Holes are punched in the panel to install the switches and lights. The switches and lights are then wired to the interlocking or an LCP controller as described above.

However current CLCPs are inflexible as they do not allow the railway operator to easily expand the displaying and user input request control throughout the railway facility and control down to the local level where a local operator or maintenance personnel can benefit from the access to the status display or for inputting a request.

The inventor hereof has succeeded at designing a system capable of providing an expansion to a wayside interlocking system for additional locations and user points of contact without modifying or expanding the interlocking system itself or otherwise complicating the design of the interlocking system. The described system and method herein provides a railway operator to expand the monitoring displays and user operability of one or more interlocking systems at lower cost lower complexity and without customization by the supplier of the interlocking system thereby providing the railway operator considerable expanded and enhanced maintenance and logistics operations of a rail yard or railroad operations.

The present system solves the prior problems and limitations by providing primary and remote panels that support duplicate panel functionality without having to redesign or customize the interlocking system itself. The remote panels can be identical to the primary panel and can be located in each remote equipment house or even at the control device itself as a convenience for performing field maintenance and testing. The disclosed system communicates among the primary and remotes over a dedicated or shared network and only the primary panel communicates with the interlocking system thereby providing a transparent and cost effective expansion solution and providing the railway operator the ability to customize a localized interlocking presence throughout their rail facility.

According to one aspect a system provides for expanded monitoring and control of a railroad wayside interlocking system that monitors a plurality of track side and train systems and controls a plurality of train and track control devices. The primary control panel system typically has a memory a processor a user interface with a display and a user input device computer executed instructions stored in the memory a first communication interface and a second communication interface. The first communication interface is coupled to the interlocking system and receives a plurality of interlocking status messages. The primary control panel can also utilize the first communication interface for communicating requests received by the primary control panel system to the interlocking system. The display is responsive to the received interlocking status messages for visually displaying a current status state of the monitored systems. The primary control panel system replicates and otherwise manages the received interlocking status messages determines a current status state for the control or other devices and communicates the received interlocking status messages or the determined current status state over the second communication interface to one or more remote control panel systems. The remote control panel systems also typically have a memory a processor a user interface including a display and a user input device computer executed instructions stored in the memory and accessible and operable by the processor and a communication interface communicating with the second communication interface of the primary control panel system. This communication interface of the remote control panel receives the replicated interlocking status messages or the determined current status state and displays at the remote control panel system the current status state of the monitored systems. The user input device of the remote control panel system receives an input request from a user for a change in the state of one or more of the control devices and the remote control panel system transmits a remote request for the change of state of the control device over the communication interface to the second communication interface of the primary control panel system responsive to the receiving of the input request from the user.

In some aspects the primary control panel system receives the request for the change of state of the control device either from the user input device of the primary control panel or as transmitted from the one or more remote control panels. The primary control panel stores this received request and transmits an interlocking change of control request over the first communication interface to the interlocking system.

According to another aspect a method provides for expanding the monitoring and controlling of a railroad wayside interlocking system. The method includes functions at a primary control panel system that is coupled to the interlocking system of receiving a plurality of interlocking status messages from the communicatively coupled interlocking system over the first communication interface and displaying a determined current status of one of the monitored systems on the display of the primary control panel system responsive to the received interlocking status messages. The method also includes replicating of the received interlocking status messages and communicating the replicated interlocking status messages or a determined current status state based thereon over the second communication interface. The method includes receiving a request for the change of state of the control device and transmitting an interlocking change of control request over the first communication interface to the interlocking system responsive to the received request for the change of state of the control device. The method also includes functions at one or more remote control panels communicatively coupled to the primary panel control system of receiving the communicated replicated interlocking status messages or the determined current status state and displaying on the display of the remote control panel system the current status state of the monitored systems responsive to the received replicated interlocking status messages and receiving an input request from a user for a change in the state of one or more of the control devices. This method can also include transmitting a message to the primary control panel responsive to the received input request.

Further aspects of the present disclosed system and method will be in part apparent and in part pointed out below. It should be understood that various aspects of the disclosure may be implemented individually or in combination with one another. It should also be understood that the detailed description and drawings while indicating certain exemplary embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosure.

It should be understood that throughout the drawings corresponding reference numerals indicate like or corresponding parts and features.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the present disclosure or the disclosure s applications or uses.

While specific exemplary examples environments and embodiments are discussed herein one of skill in the art should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in this art will recognize that other components and configurations can be used without parting from the spirit and scope of this disclosure. In fact after reading the following description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement numerous disclosed and supported embodiments as in alternative examples environments and embodiments.

In one exemplary embodiment a system provides for expanded monitoring and control of a railroad wayside interlocking system that monitors a plurality of track side and train systems and controls a plurality of train and track control devices. A primary control panel system typically has a memory a processor a user interface including a display and a user input device computer executed instructions stored in the memory and accessible and operable by the processor a first communication interface and a second communication interface. The first communication interface is coupled to the interlocking system and receives a plurality of interlocking status messages. The primary control panel can also utilize the first communication interface for communicating requests received by the primary control panel system to the interlocking system.

The user input device can be any suitable device for receiving an input from a user such as a push button a toggle switch a key and a touch screen icon by way of example. The display is responsive to the received interlocking status messages for visually displaying a current status state of the monitored systems. This can include by way of example a display of the user interface via LED lights indicative of the determined current status state of the monitored systems such as on a fixed or etched panel illustrating all or a portion of the track side systems including a layout of the railroad track and all or a portion of the monitored track side and train systems and the controlled train and track control devices. For example this can include a predefined permanent illustration on a faceplate associated with the primary control system and wherein the display includes a light indicator for each monitored device and or control device. The primary display can also be a computer display screen illustrating all or a portion of the track side systems including a layout of the railroad track and all or a portion of the monitored track side and train systems and the controlled train and track control devices.

The primary control panel system replicates and otherwise manages the received interlocking status messages determines a current status state for the control or other devices and communicates the received interlocking status messages or the determined current status state over the second communication interface to one or more remote control panel systems.

The remote control panel systems also typically have a memory a processor a user interface including a display and a user input device computer executed instructions stored in the memory and accessible and operable by the processor and a communication interface communicating with the second communication interface of the primary control panel system. By way of example the remote control panel system can be a laptop computer a localized self contained computer a mobile telephone a tablet computer or a customized panel integrated with or located at a control device.

This user input device can be any suitable device for receiving an input from a user such as a push button a toggle switch a key and a touch screen icon by way of example. The remote control panel system can include an illustrated display that is a duplication of the entire illustrated display of the primary control panel system or can be only a portion of the illustrated display of the primary control panel system. The remote display can be a predefined permanent illustration on a faceplate associated with all or a portion of the illustrated track side systems as displayed by the primary control panel or a duplication thereof of all or the portion.

The first communication interface is one that is typically compatible with the protocol and connections for interworking with the interlocking system to which the present system is to be utilized. The second communication interface of the primary control panel system can be a wired optical or wireless interface for coupling to a suitable communication network on a point to point basis or on a shared basis with the communication interface s of the remote control panel systems. In some embodiments the first communication interface is coupled to a first communication network and the second communication interface is a separate interface communicating over a separate second communication network. In some embodiments the first communication interface communicates using a serial communications protocol and wherein the second communication interface communicates using a different communications protocol.

This communication interface of the remote control panel receives the replicated interlocking status messages or the determined current status state and displays at the remote control panel system the current status state of the monitored systems. The user input device of the remote control panel system receives an input request from a user for a change in the state of one or more of the control devices and the remote control panel system transmits a remote request for the change of state of the control device over the communication interface to the second communication interface of the primary control panel system responsive to the receiving of the input request from the user whether via the primary control or the remote.

The remote control panel systems can be a computer system customized by the computer executable instructions and wherein the user input device is an input device of the computer system. For example this can include a laptop computer a localized self contained computer a mobile telephone and a tablet computer by way of example.

In some embodiments the primary control panel system receives the request for the change of state of the control device either from the user input device of the primary control panel or as transmitted from the one or more remote control panels. The primary control panel stores this received request and transmits an interlocking change of control request over the first communication interface to the interlocking system.

In some embodiments the primary control panel system receives the remote request from the change of state of the control device from the remote control panel and then transmits the interlocking change of control request over the first communication interface to the interlocking system responsive to the received remote request from the remote or the user interface of the primary system. In other embodiments the user interface control of the primary control panel system receives an input request from the user for a change in the state of one or more of the control devices. In such embodiments the primary control panel system transmits the interlocking change of control request over the first communication interface to the interlocking system responsive to the received remote request from the remote.

As noted above there can be one or more remote control panel systems as described above each of which has a communication interface communicatively coupled to the second communication interface of the primary control panel system. In these cases the replication of the current status of the control or monitored devices by the primary control panel system is communicated or at least the received interlocking status messages or their determined current status state to each of the remote control panel systems. The primary control panel system can manage the replication of the received interlocking status messages by mapping the received status message to an associated status message state of the remote control panel system.

This primary control panel system communicates to and from the remote control panel system transparently to the communication with the interlocking system so that the only communications and interactions or interfacing with the interlocking system is by the primary control panel. The primary control panel system manages the various remotes as to their displays the allocation of the replicated current status of the devices and the receipt and transmittal of any requests by any of the primary or remote user input devices and users thereof for a change of a state. In some embodiments this can be performed by the primary control panel system uniquely identifying each of the remote control panels and managing each such as by uniquely identifying the request for a change of state of a control device from each remote control panel system. As described herein this can be mapping of each system or any other suitable method of remote system management and control. Further as will be addressed below the mapping and transmission of status messages to the remote by the primary control panel system can be to all of the control devices of the primary panel or it can be a subset such as by a sub geographic coverage area or by type of control device.

In some embodiments the primary control panel system transmits to the interlocking system over the first communication interface the unique identification of the remote control panel system from which the request for change of state was received. In this manner the interlocking system while communicating only with the primary control panel system can log or otherwise identify the remote panel originating the request for a change of state.

The primary control panel system can transmit the request for change of state as received from one of the remote control panel systems to the other coupled local control panel systems as a pending request indication associated with the primary control panel system and the coupled remote control panel systems. In this manner each remote control panel managed by the primary control panel can be notified of the pending request for a change of state. The primary control panel system can also map the received request for a change of state to a request of a change of state to the interlocking system.

In another embodiment a method provides for expanding the monitoring and controlling of a railroad wayside interlocking system. The method includes functions at a primary control panel system that is coupled to the interlocking system including receiving a plurality of interlocking status messages from the communicatively coupled interlocking system over the first communication interface and displaying a determined current status of one of the monitored systems on the display of the primary control panel system responsive to the received interlocking status messages. The method also includes replicating of the received interlocking status messages and communicating the replicated interlocking status messages or a determined current status state based thereon over the second communication interface.

The method includes receiving a request for the change of state of the control device and transmitting an interlocking change of control request over the first communication interface to the interlocking system responsive to the received request for the change of state of the control device. The method also includes functions at one or more remote control panels communicatively coupled to the primary control panel system of receiving the communicated replicated interlocking status messages or the determined current status state and displaying on the display of the remote control panel system the current status state of the monitored systems responsive to the received replicated interlocking status messages and receiving an input request from a user for a change in the state of one or more of the control devices. This method can also include transmitting a message to the primary control panel responsive to the received input request.

In some embodiments at the remote control panel system transmitting over the communication interface to the primary control panel system a remote request for the change of state of the control device is responsive to the received user input wherein receiving at the primary control panel system the request for the change of state of the control device is the received request for the change of state over the second communication interface from the remote control panel system and wherein transmitting the interlocking change of control request is responsive to the request received from the remote control panel system.

This can include steps at the primary control panel system for receiving an input request from a user of the primary control panel user input device for changing a state of one of the control devices wherein receiving at the primary control panel system the request for the change of state of the control device is the received request for the change of state from the user input request of the user of the primary control panel user input device and wherein transmitting the interlocking change of control request is responsive to the request received therefrom.

The methods for the primary and remote systems can also be as described above with regard to their functionality with the system. This can include one or more of the following alone or in combination a uniquely identifying each of the coupled remote control panel systems b uniquely identifying each request for a change of state of a control device as being associated with the uniquely identified remote control panel system from which the request was received c transmitting to the interlocking system the unique identification of the remote control panel system from which the request for change of state was received d communicating among the primary and one or more remote control panel systems that is transparent to the communicating with the interlocking system e mapping the received status message to an associated status message state of the remote control panel system f mapping the received request for a change of state to a request of a change of state to the interlocking system g illustrating all or a portion of the track side systems including a layout of the railroad track and all or a portion of the monitored track side and train systems and the controlled train and track control devices and h displaying by the primary control system and or the remote systems a predefined permanent illustration on a faceplate associated with the primary control system and wherein the display includes a light indicator for each monitored device and or control device.

Referring now to is a schematic diagram of a railroad facility having a plurality of interlocking systems and expanded monitoring and control according to one exemplary embodiment. In a typical rail yard or railroad operation there are typically numerous rail road tracks shown as A D in by way of example having numerous switches . The switches connect and discount a first rail road track A with a second railroad track B which is often by way of a connecting rail road track C. The switches can be hand operated but in most cases today they are remotely monitored and controlled. As shown a central control system for a railroad system can have an interlocking system interconnected or directly connected to the central control . As shown in a the first interlocking system A monitors and controls a first area of track A which includes the illustrated tracks A D and switches . illustrates a second interlocking system B that controls a second track area B which is not illustrated in detail in but can be similar to area A and similarly a third interlocking system C can monitor and control a third track area C that is also not illustrated. The interlocking systems and the associated monitored and controlled areas can vary in quantity and complexity in operation of the railroad system . To aid in the maintenance and localized maintenance of each of these areas each interlocking controller can include one or more primary control panel systems shown as A B and C coupled to interlocking controller A and otherwise indicated simply as being associated with each interlocking controller B C and .

Each primary control panel system can include one or more remote control panels shown as A B and C as being associated with primary control panel system A of interlocking controller A by way of example. Each primary control panel system or remote control panel can monitor and control all of associated track area or a portion thereof such as being arranged for special functions that are a subset of functions of the central control or the primary control panel system . Each of the primary control panel system and its associated one or more remote control panels can physically located in one or more physical locations throughout its monitored and controlled area A. Each primary control panel system and associated one or more remote control panels can be localized as to their displayed monitored and controlled systems or can include the entire system of area A.

These monitored and control systems can include any suitable control device such as a wayside light subsystem monitoring and controlling one or more lights one of the switches that are communicatively coupled to one or more of the switches a switch control subsystem coupled to one or more switches a sensor control and monitoring subsystem communicatively coupled to one or more wayside sensors such as a motion or temperature sensor or another third party system. As understood by one of skill in the art the remote systems can be placed at any location or can be mobile within the monitored and controlled area so that a local operating personnel can review or view the current status and can also input a request for a change of status that is then sent back to the primary control panel system for processing and further transmission to the interlocking system and possibly on to the other interlocking systems for coordination directly or via central control .

Also included on the front surface panel or user interface can be a control input interface that includes one or more user inputs . As shown these user inputs can include push buttons toggle switches or other user input devices and can be arranged for user convenience. As shown a first set of user inputs A is associated with East Bound Signals such as lights that includes indicators for east bound signals 2E and 2W and a stop for each. A second set of user inputs B is associated with West Bound Signals such as lights that includes indicators for west bound signals 2W and 4W and stops for each. A third set of user inputs C is associated with control of track switches shown in this example as 1 NOR 3 NOR 1 REV and 3 REV. The display layout with status indicators provide a visual depiction of the current status of the monitored devices while user inputs of a control input provides a user positioned at the primary control panel system or a similarly configured remote control panel system to input a request for a change of status or state of a signal such as light or a switch . This is illustrated in the text description in of display . It should be understood to those skilled in the art that one or more components or features of the primary control panel system and remote control panel system such as the display the graphical depictions the status indicators and the user inputs can be implemented in a computer implemented environment using a computer display and computer inputs and such implementation is considered to be within the scope of the present disclosure. While illustrates two separate rack mountable bodies it should be understood that this is just one exemplary embodiment and other embodiments can include different packaging arrangements of the functional systems described herein. Further in some embodiments since there can be a plurality of remote control panel systems associated with each primary control panel system the user inputs the display and other indicators in each remote control panel system can be for an area or subset or portion including geographic as well as operational or functional subset of that of the primary control panel system from which the remote control panel system is associated.

As shown the remote control panel system can include a remote panel user interface with a remote display with one or more control input interfaces one or more remote user inputs and one or more remote status indicators . The remote control panel system is also a computer implemented system having a processing system as will be described in more detail below. In this example the remote control panel system receives power from a power source provides power such as about 10 16 VDC by way of example to an isolated battery input that is coupled to an internal power source that can include about 5 VDC and common remote control panel system power. The remote control panel system was a first interface coupled via communication link to a configuration PC for receiving programming instructions and executable code and setting data. It also has a communication interface that is coupled to communication network for communicating with the primary control panel system . The remote control panel system can also include local communication interface such as an isolated serial interface USB Wi Fi blue tooth by ways of example providing local communication over local communication link with local communicating devices .

As shown in a single primary control panel system can be configured to communicate with the interlocking system using a predefined standard protocol such as the GETS LCP Protocol over an RS 232 interface. In this example only the physical inputs from user inputs and status indicators would be available for controls and indications I O . In this configuration a remote control panel system is added by a simple connecting of the remote control panel system to the primary control panel system using the communication link such as an Ethernet connection. The system would then be configured via the network with network settings such as IP addresses etc. to uniquely identify itself from the other system. The duplicate panel system would not be connected to an interlocking controller . When a user input receives an input from a user at the remote control panel system such as a pushbutton of switch closure a message is sent over the network to the primary control panel system to update that same user input which is then delivered as a control bit to the interlocking controller . Similarly when an indicator status changes state on the primary control panel system the physical status indicator is updated at the remote control panel system via a communication message sent over network to the remote or duplicated control panel system so that the same status indicator has the same indicator status represented thereon.

The systems platforms servers applications modules programs and methods described herein for the railroad wayside interlocking system including the primary control panel systems and or remote control panel systems and components thereof can include one or more a digital processing systems and respectively as described above and described herein simply as a digital processing system . Referring now to there can be one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the functions as described above. The digital processing system includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions for the operation thereof. In most embodiments the described digital processing systems includes one or more memory devices a display such as displays and one or more input devices such as input devices status indicators and in some embodiments can include a sound output device such as an alarm or status or verification signal. In some embodiments the digital processing system can be connected to one or more data networks such as communication networks and that can be a wired network a mobile network a wireless network such as a Wi Fi or a Bluetooth network or a wired data network. These data networks can be utilize to access the Internet or an intranet such as for accesses to the World Wide Web or other Internet based services. These can include but are not limited to such data network accessible systems or applications such as a data storage device a cloud service an application server a terminal or exchange server. In some embodiments the digital processing system is a non portable device such as a server or a desktop computer but in many embodiments it can be a portable device such as a laptop tablet computer a mobile telephone device or a digital audio player.

The systems platforms servers programs and methods disclosed herein for one or more components or features of the railroad wayside interlocking system including the primary and or remote control panels and components thereof and methods as described herein can include one or more computer programs each of which are composed of sequences of computer executable instructions for the digital processing system s CPU each of which are developed to perform one or more specified tasks. Those of skill in the art will recognize that the computer program may be written in various computer programming languages having one or more sequence of instructions. The computer program can be loaded to the CPU or associated memory via a data network connection or a local memory device but are increasingly via a data network download. Typically a computer program such as the operating system is loaded by local memory device such as CD or DVD. In some embodiments the computer program is delivered from one location to one or more locations and can be increasingly distributed via a cloud computing or application service. In various embodiments the computer program comprises in part or in whole one or more web web browser mobile standalone or applications extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof. The systems platforms servers programs and methods disclosed herein above and throughout include in various embodiments software server and database modules. The software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art some of which are disclosed above.

As noted a digital processing system typically includes one or more memory or data storage devices . The memory stores data including the operating system and application programs as well as operating data on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the memory can be volatile and requires power to maintain stored information but can also be non volatile and retains stored information when the digital processing system is not powered. Further the memory can be located with the digital processing systems or can be attachable thereto either physically or via a data network connection to a remote memory . In some embodiments the memory can include CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like.

As noted the digital processing system includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions which is stored in memory . The operating system can include software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of software applications modules. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable operating systems can include by way of non limiting examples Apple OS Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system can be provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that embodiments of the remote control panel and some components of the primary control panel system may also be implemented using suitable mobile smart phones that include mobile operating systems including by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS .

The digital processing system can include a visual display . In some embodiments the display can be a display faceplate board having a layout or can be a computer controlled cathode ray tube CRT or an optical projector but is increasingly a flat screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD a light emitting diode LED or an organic light emitting diode. In other embodiments the display can also be a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein. Typically they are located proximate to the digital processing but in some embodiments the display can be remotely located such as a billboard using LED or electrowetting technology.

The digital processing system can also include one or more an input devices that comprise the control input interface herein referred to generally as input devices . In some embodiments the input device can be a push button a key switch a switch a keyboard or keypad but these can also include a pointing device such as by way of non limiting examples a mouse touchpad light pen pointing stick trackball track pad joystick game controller stylus touch screen multi touch screen a microphone that captures voice or other sound inputs or an optical image capture device that can capture images or motion or other visual input. In still further embodiments the input device can be a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing system optionally includes one or more sound output devices not shown but known to those of skill in the art . These sound output devices can be a set of speakers a pair of headphones earphones or ear buds. The speakers can be of any technology including a flat panel loudspeaker a ribbon magnetic loudspeaker an electro acoustic transducer or loudspeaker or a bending wave loudspeaker or a piezoelectric speaker. In still further embodiments the sound output device can be a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

Such systems utilize one or more communications networks such as those shown can include wireline communications capability wireless communications capability or a combination of both at any frequencies using any type of standard protocol or technology. In addition in the present invention communications network can be a private network for example a VPN or a public network for example the Internet . A non inclusive list of exemplary wireless protocols and technologies used by communications network includes BlueTooth general packet radio service GPRS cellular digital packet data CDPD mobile solutions platform MSP multimedia messaging MMS wireless application protocol WAP code division multiple access CDMA short message service SMS wireless markup language WML handheld device markup language HDML binary runtime environment for wireless BREW radio access network RAN and packet switched core networks PS CN . An exemplary non inclusive list of primarily wireline protocols and technologies used by communications network includes asynchronous transfer mode ATM enhanced interior gateway routing protocol EIGRP frame relay FR high level data link control HDLC Internet control message protocol ICMP interior gateway routing protocol IGRP internetwork packet exchange IPX ISDN point to point protocol PPP transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP routing information protocol RIP and user datagram protocol UDP . As skilled persons will recognize any other known or anticipated wireless or wireline protocols and technologies can be used.

In accordance with the description provided herein a suitable digital processing system can include by way of example server computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers tablet computers mobile phones such as smart phones audio devices personal digital assistants netbook computers smartbook computers subnotebook computers ultra mobile PCs handheld computers Internet appliances and video game systems both portable and fixed.

The clients and the servers are nodes connected to network defined by their respective information retrieval functions. Client includes a client application which is an information requesting or receiving application associated with client and client includes a client application which is an information requesting or receiving application associated with client . Client applications can run either on clients respectively or can run on another node and are then passed to the clients . In one or more embodiments the client applications are web browsers.

Servers include a variety of processes including operating systems web server applications and application servers. The operating systems which can also be called platforms are the software programs that applications use to communicate with the physical parts of the servers . Examples of operating systems that can be used with the present invention include Linux Sun Solaris Windows NT 2000 Cobalt RaQ and Free BSD although any operating systems known or anticipated can be used.

The web server applications are software running on servers that make it possible for the client browsers to download stored web pages. These applications also coordinate streaming audio video and secure e commerce and can be integrated with databases as described below for information retrieval. Examples of web server applications that can be used with the present invention include Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server IIS O Reilly Associates WebSite Pro Netscape s FastTrack Server and StarNine s WebSTAR for Macintosh although any operating systems known or anticipated can be used.

The application servers sit on top of the formatting and display languages for example HTML that a request from clients generate and translated the request for databases. Upon receiving information from databases the application servers will translate this information back to the formatting and display languages and sent a response back to the browser. In one or more embodiments the application server software resides at the servers although with cross platform programming technology software performing the same functions can reside at clients as well. In one or more embodiments the application servers will insert strings of programming code into the formatting and display language with client browsers employing interpreters or a plug ins to translate back into the formatting and display language for example HTML to display a page. Examples of application servers that can be used with the present invention include Cactus Cold Fusion Cyberprise Server Ejipt Enterprise Application Server Netscape Application Server Oracle Application Server PowerTier for C PowerTier for Enterprise Java Beans Secant Extreme Enterprise Server SilverStream WebEnterprise WebSpeed and WebSphere although any application servers known or anticipated can be used.

Taken together the web servers and applications servers perform at least these functions i providing an environment upon which server components can run ii functioning as is a main program under which other components run as subroutines iii providing services for example security related services transaction related services state management and resources for example database connections iv enabling communication with clients .

For the convenience of condensing terminology the aforementioned applications working which work together on the servers or instead are processed at other nodes and passed to servers are referred to as application servers. illustrates applications servers ASs respectively can run on clients . In operation client browsers are used to issue requests for information or queued to transmit information over network . Requests and responses are handled by servers via running of ASs which in turn transmit information over network for display by browsers .

In one or more embodiments additional functions required of ASs will be to connect the web servers to for example back end data resources such as relational tables flat files e mail messages and directory servers. In exemplary embodiments additional programs incorporated in ASs typically called middleware database utilities or database management systems DMBS can be used among other known or anticipated database methods.

For example the ASs can include their own internal DBMSs or DBMSs of other nodes or the DBMSs labeled database servers DSs . The DBMS refers to computer software for storing maintaining and searching for data in a database. In the present invention the DBMS can also utilize facilities for increasing reliability and performance and integrity such as indexes logging and record locking.

In one or more embodiments the DBMS includes interfaces for searching for and locating particular data items from the database and for presenting the result of these queries to a search engine. A search engine as used herein searches the database in response to a user request which can be initiated at client browser for example or at server for example and returns a result to the user for example in the form of a relational table viewable in browsers . The DBMS can refer to any type of database including a relational DBMS RDBMS LDAP VSAM IMS Active Directory Services message stores to name a few.

In one or more embodiments the DBMS is an RDBMS that uses relational database to retrieve information from the railroad wayside interlocking system inventory and or status or parameter or administrative databases. In one or more embodiments the relational database uses structured query language SQL including SQL defined according to International Standards Organization ISO and American National Standards Institute ANSI standards or follow these standards with additional language constructs. In one or more exemplary embodiments ASs are respectively connected to DSs via an application programming interface API including for example the open database connectivity ODBC Java database connectivity JDBC APIs.

Any types of DBMS platforms can be used in the various systems and components of the railroad wayside interlocking system and methods. Exemplary platforms that can be employed include Sun Microsystems Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE that contains an Enterprise JavaBeans . EJB server side component architecture and Microsoft s Windows Distributed interNet Applications Architecture Windows DNA which contains the COM server side component architecture.

As described above the system and method above provides an expansion to a wayside interlocking system for additional locations and user points of contact without modifying or expanding the interlocking system itself or otherwise complicating the design of the interlocking system. The described system and method herein provides a railway operator to expand the monitoring displays and user operability of one or more interlocking systems at lower cost lower complexity and without customization by the supplier of the interlocking system thereby providing the railway operator considerable expanded and enhanced maintenance and logistics operations of a rail yard or a rail operations.

When describing elements or features and or embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements or features. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements or features beyond those specifically described.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that various changes can be made to the exemplary embodiments and implementations described above without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings should be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is further to be understood that the processes or steps described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative processes or steps may be employed.

