---

title: Systems and methods for using robots to monitor environmental conditions in an environment
abstract: Methods and devices are disclosed for monitoring environmental conditions in one or more environments. In one embodiment, the method includes maintaining a plurality of environmental-condition thresholds, each of which corresponds to an environmental condition and is predetermined based on data corresponding to the environmental condition that is received from a plurality of robots. The method further includes receiving from a first robot first data corresponding to a first environmental condition in a first environment. The method may still further include making a first comparison of the first data and a first environmental-condition threshold corresponding to the first environmental condition and, based on the first comparison, triggering a notification. Triggering the notification may comprise transmitting to the robot instructions to transmit the notification to at least one of a call center and a remote device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09437097&OS=09437097&RS=09437097
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09437097
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140809
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 758 055 filed on Feb. 4 2013 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 596 780 filed on Feb. 9 2012 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Various sensors may be used in an environment to sense one or more environmental conditions of the environment. As a first example many homes include a smoke sensor that senses a level of smoke in the home. As a second example many warehouses include a temperature sensor that senses an ambient temperature in the warehouse. Other sensors are used as well.

Some sensors may be equipped with an alarm such as a visual or audible alarm that may be triggered based on the sensed environmental conditions. Using the first example above a smoke alarm in a home may trigger an audible alarm when a sensed level of smoke in the home exceeds an acceptable level. Other sensors may be equipped to transmit a notification such as a textual notification to another entity based on the sensed environmental conditions. Using the second example above a temperature sensor in a warehouse may transmit a notification to a control center or other entity when a sensed ambient temperature is outside an acceptable range of ambient temperatures.

Disclosed herein are cloud based systems and methods for using robots to monitor environmental conditions in one or more environments. The disclosed cloud based system may include a server and one or more robots in environments. Each of the one or more robots may include a server and one or more robots in environments.

Each robot may collect data regarding one or more environmental conditions in its environment and transmit the collected data to the server. The server may use the data received from the robots to maintain a number of environmental condition thresholds. Further the server may use the environmental condition thresholds to evaluate the environmental condition s in the robots environments.

In one aspect a method for monitoring an environmental condition in an environment is disclosed. The method includes maintaining a plurality of environmental condition thresholds each of which corresponds to an environmental condition and is predetermined based on data corresponding to the environmental condition that is received from a plurality of robots. The method further includes receiving from a first robot first data corresponding to a first environmental condition in a first environment. The method still further includes making a first comparison of the first data and a first environmental condition threshold corresponding to the first environmental condition and based on the first comparison triggering a notification.

In another aspect a nontransitory computer readable medium is disclosed having stored therein instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform the functions of the method described above.

In yet another aspect a robot for monitoring environmental conditions in environments is disclosed. The robot includes at least one of on board sensors and a remote sensor interface coupled to at least one remote sensor. The on board sensors and the remote sensor interface are configured to collect first data corresponding to a first environmental condition. The robot further includes a server interface configured to transmit to a server a request for a first environmental condition threshold corresponding to the first environmental condition and to receive from the server an indication of the first environmental condition threshold wherein the first environmental condition threshold is predetermined based on data corresponding to the first environmental condition that is received from a plurality of robots. The robot further includes at least one processor and data storage comprising instructions executable by the at least one processor to make a comparison of the first data and the first environmental condition threshold and based on the comparison transmit a notification.

In still another aspect a server for operating in a system for monitoring environmental conditions in environments is disclosed. The server includes a first input interface configured to receive from a first robot first data corresponding to a first environmental condition in a first environment at least one processor and data storage. The data storage comprises a plurality of environmental condition thresholds each of which corresponds to an environmental condition and is predetermined based on data corresponding to the environmental condition and received from a plurality of robots. The data storage further comprises instructions executable by the at least one processor to make a first comparison of the first data and a first environmental condition threshold corresponding to the first environmental condition and based on the first comparison trigger a notification.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part hereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia methods and systems for robot cloud computing. In particular in examples described herein a number of robots and or other client devices may interact with a cloud server to share data corresponding to one or more environmental conditions in a number of environments. The cloud server may in turn use the data from the robots and or other client devices to determine a threshold for each environmental condition. These thresholds may be referred to as environmental condition thresholds.

Thereafter a robot may collect data corresponding to an environmental condition in the robot s environment. The robot may transmit the data to the cloud server and the cloud server may compare the data from the robot with an environmental condition threshold for the environmental condition. Alternately or additionally the robot may transmit to the cloud server a request for the environmental condition threshold for the environmental condition the robot may receive the environmental condition threshold and the robot may compare the data from the robot with the environmental condition threshold. In either case based on the comparison the cloud server or robot may determine whether the environmental condition in the robot s environment is at an acceptable level or an unacceptable level. When the environmental condition is at an unacceptable level the cloud server or robot may trigger a notification.

Referring now to the figures is an example a system for monitoring environmental conditions in an environment. As shown in the system includes a cloud server coupled to two robot clients A and B via communication links A and B respectively.

While one cloud server and two robot clients A and B are shown more or fewer cloud servers and robot clients are possible as well. In addition different types of client devices besides robot clients A and B may be coupled to the cloud server . For example any device that may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor may be coupled to the cloud server .

The system may be configured to operate in a cloud based computing architecture. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between server and client devices. In the system the cloud server may be said to be a server device while the robot clients A and B may be said to be client devices. Thus in the system application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between the cloud server and the robot clients A and B. In particular in the system environmental condition thresholds data and instructions executable to determine the environmental condition thresholds to compare received data with the environmental condition thresholds and to trigger notifications may be divided to some extent between the cloud server and the robot clients A and B.

In some embodiments the cloud server may store copies of the environmental condition thresholds data and or the instructions. At least some of this data e.g. data corresponding to an environmental condition threshold and instructions e.g. instructions to trigger notifications may be dynamically delivered to and or downloaded by the robot clients A and B as needed or otherwise for execution at the robot clients A and B. In this manner the robot clients A and B may access at least some of this data and instructions on a near real time basis.

In some embodiments downloaded data and instructions can be tailored to the specific capabilities of the robot clients A and B accessing the cloud server . Further in some embodiments details of the architecture may be transparent to users of the robot clients A and B.

Dividing application execution and storage between the cloud server and the robot clients A and B may allow more processing to be performed by the cloud server taking advantage of the comparatively greater processing power and capability of the cloud server for example.

In the system the cloud server includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud server may include more or fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud server may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices such as the robot clients A and B. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud server via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud server and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud server and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the infrastructure . An example server is further described below in connection with .

As noted above the system includes robot clients A and B each of which coupled to or otherwise configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud server .

Each of the robot clients A and B may comprise any computing device that is configured to connect to the cloud server and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . Each robot client A and B may further be a combination of computing devices. Robot client A may be located in a first environment and robot client B may be located in a second environment. The second environment may be co located with the first environment or may be remote from the first environment. For example robot client A could be located in a first home and robot client B could be located in a second home such as a home next door to the first home or a home several miles away. Other examples are possible as well.

In some examples one or both of robot clients A and B may collect data and upload the data to the cloud server . For example one or both of robot clients A and B may collect data corresponding to one or more environmental conditions and may upload the data to the cloud server . In particular robot client A may collect data corresponding to one or more environmental conditions in the first environment. Similarly robot client B may collect data corresponding to one or more environmental conditions in the second environment. Example environmental conditions may include temperature levels of sound levels of light levels of carbon monoxide natural gas or other gases levels of water motion and parameters of one or more appliances or other devices in the environment. Other environmental conditions are possible as well.

In order to collect data corresponding to the one or more environmental conditions robot clients A and B may include one or more on board sensors. Example on board sensors include gyroscopes accelerometers compasses Global Positioning System GPS receivers light sensors infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors radio sensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors cameras light sensors motion sensors range sensors microphones or other audio sensors speakers radar capacitive sensors touch sensors smoke sensors carbon monoxide sensors natural gas sensors gyro sensors heat sensors water sensors and or biometric sensors. Other types of on board sensors are possible as well.

In some embodiments in order to collect data corresponding to the one or more environmental conditions the robot client A may further be coupled to a remote sensor A via communication link A and robot client B may be coupled to remote sensor B via a communication link B as shown. Remote sensors A and B may collect data corresponding to one or more environmental conditions in the first and second environments respectively and transmit the data to the robot clients A and B respectively. Example remote sensors include light sensors infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors radio sensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors cameras light sensors motion sensors range sensors microphones or other audio sensors speakers radar capacitive sensors touch sensors smoke sensors carbon monoxide sensors natural gas sensors gyro sensors heat sensors water sensors and or biometric sensors. In some embodiments the remote sensors may include or be coupled to appliances or other devices that are configured to collect data regarding their own performance. Examples of such remote sensor configurations include washing machines dryers refrigerators ovens stoves small appliances e.g. toasters and coffee makers furnaces air conditioning units heating units televisions computers fire alarms and security systems. Other types of remote sensors are possible as well.

Thus robot clients A and B may collect data corresponding to one or more environmental conditions in the first and second environments respectively through one or both of on board sensors and remote sensors A and B.

Upon collecting the data each of robot client A and robot client B may send the collected data to the cloud server via communication links A and B respectively. The cloud server may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot clients A and B. For example the cloud server may be configured to compare the received data with one or more environmental condition thresholds and in response to finding that some or all of the data is at an unacceptable level based on the one or more environmental condition thresholds return to one or both robot clients A and B instructions to trigger a notification. Alternately upon collecting the data each of robot client A and B may transmit to the cloud server a request for the one or more environmental condition thresholds and upon receiving the requested environmental condition thresholds from the server may compare the received data with one or more environmental condition thresholds. In response to finding that some or all of the data is at an unacceptable level based on the one or more environmental condition thresholds robot clients A and B may transmit a notification. In some embodiments prior to transmitting the notification robot clients A and B may determine whether the data at an unacceptable level was collected at a remote sensor. When the data was collected at a remote sensor the robot may verify the data e.g. by moving to where the remote sensor is located and re collecting the data or by controlling another remote sensor to re collect the data before triggering the notification. An example robot client is further described below in connection with .

As shown in robot client A is further connected to a remote device via a communication link . Remote device may be any type of device configured to receive the notification. For example remote device may be a laptop mobile telephone smartphone personal digital assistant tablet or personal or cellular telephone and may be configured to receive the notification and responsively display a visible notification and or emit an audible notification. As another example remote device may be one or more of the remote sensors described above and may be configured to receive the notification and responsively display a visible notification and or emit an audible notification power on power off modify one or more parameters and or perform one or more tasks. Other remote devices are possible as well.

As shown robot client B is further connected to a call center via a communication link . Call center may be any type of system configured to receive the notification. For example call center may be an emergency call center a public safety answering point and or other service center. Call center may be operated by a user and or may be automated. To this end call center may include any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer etc. . Other types of call centers are possible as well.

In some embodiments robot client A may be further connected to one or more additional remote devices and or one or more call centers such as call center or other call centers. Further in some embodiments robot client B may be further connected to one or more additional call centers and or one or more remote devices such as remote device or other remote devices. In addition the cloud server may be coupled to the remote device and or the call center and may be configured to provide the notification.

Any of robot clients A and B remote sensors A and B remote device and call center may include additional components besides those described above. For example any of robot clients A and B remote sensors A and B remote device and call center may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example one or both of robot clients A and B may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example remote device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore any of robot clients A and B remote sensors A and B remote device and call center may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the client devices.

Each of the communication links A B A B and shown in may include wired links such as serial or parallel buses or wireless links such as Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In some examples the system may include access points through which robot clients A and B may communicate with the cloud server . Access points may take various forms. For example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a robot client A or B connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such robot clients A and B may include a wired or wireless network interface through which robot clients A and B can connect to the cloud server or access points . As an example robot clients A and B may be configured to use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore robot clients A and B may be configured to use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

While the remote device and the call center are shown to be coupled directly to the robot clients A and B respectively in some embodiments the remote device and or the call center may be connected to the robot clients via one or more wires or wireless networks such as the Internet and or the cloud server . Other examples are possible as well. Further while robot clients A and B are shown to be coupled to one another only through the cloud server in some embodiments robot clients A and B may be directly connected or connectable to one another as indicated by the communication link . Communication link may take the form of any of the wired or wireless links described above.

The first input interface may be any interface configured to receive from a first robot such as for example robot client A as described above in connection with first data corresponding to a first environmental condition in a first environment. For example the first input interface may be a wireless interface. To this end the first input interface may include an antenna and a chipset for communicating with the first robot over an air interface. The chipset or first input interface in general may be arranged to communicate according to one or more types of wireless communication e.g. protocols such as Bluetooth communication protocols described in IEEE 802.11 including any IEEE 802.11 revisions cellular technology such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities. Alternately or additionally the first input interface may be a web based interface accessible by the first robot. The first input interface may take other forms as well.

The first output interface may be any interface configured to transmit to the first robot instructions to transmit a notification and or data corresponding to an environmental condition threshold. To this end the first output interface may be for example a wireless interface such as any of the wireless interfaces described above.

The second input interface may be any interface configured to receive from a second robot such as for example robot client B as described above in connection with second data corresponding to the first environmental condition in a second environment. To this end the second input interface may be for example a wireless interface such as any of the wireless interfaces described above.

The second output interface may be any interface configured to transmit to the second robot instructions to transmit a notification and or data corresponding to an environmental condition threshold. To this end the second output interface may be for example a wireless interface such as any of the wireless interfaces described above.

One or more of the first input interface the first output interface the second input interface and the second output interface may be combined. In some embodiments the server may include one or more additional interfaces configured to receive data from one or more additional entities such as other sensors other robots and the Internet.

The processor may comprise one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors. To the extent the processor includes more than one processor such processors could work separately or in combination. Further the processor may be integrated in whole or in part with the first input interface the first output interface the second input interface the second output interface and or with other components.

Data storage in turn may comprise one or more volatile and or one or more non volatile storage components such as optical magnetic and or organic storage and data storage may be integrated in whole or in part with the processor . Further data storage may contain the data received from the first and second robots as well as other robots and client devices. Additionally data storage may contain environmental condition thresholds and instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor to carry out various server functions.

Each environmental condition threshold may correspond to an environmental condition. For example environmental condition thresholds may include a carbon monoxide threshold corresponding to a maximum acceptable level of carbon monoxide in an environment. Other examples are possible as well.

Each environmental condition threshold may be predetermined based on data corresponding to the environmental condition such as the data received from the robots and other client devices. Using the example above the carbon monoxide threshold may be predetermined based on data received from the robots indicating measured levels of carbon monoxide in a number of environments.

In some embodiments the environmental condition thresholds may simply be running means or medians of the data received from the robots and other client devices. In other embodiments the environmental condition thresholds may be weighted means quadratic means truncated means or other types of means or medians. The environmental condition thresholds may take other forms as well.

In some embodiments the environmental condition thresholds may correspond to more general environmental conditions such as measured levels of carbon monoxide in environments or may correspond to more specific environmental conditions such as measured levels of carbon monoxide in kitchens of residential environments measured levels of carbon monoxide in commercial environments in the southwest United States or measured levels of carbon monoxide in July. Other examples are possible as well.

Instructions may be executable by the processor to maintain the environmental condition thresholds . For example the instructions may be executable by the processor to calculate the running mean or median of the data received from the robots and other client devices corresponding to each environmental condition. Other examples are possible as well.

As noted above the server may be configured to receive first data corresponding to a first environmental condition via the first input interface . Accordingly the instructions may be further executable by the processor to make a comparison of the first data and an environmental condition threshold corresponding to the first environmental condition.

Further the instructions may be executable by the processor to trigger a notification based on the comparison. Triggering the notification may involve for example transmitting to the first robot e.g. via the first output interface instructions to transmit the notification. Alternately triggering the notification may involve transmitting the notification to another entity such as a remote device or call center. Triggering the notification may take other forms as well.

The server interface may be any interface configured to transmit data to and receive instructions and or data from a server such as the server described above in connection with . The data transmitted to the server may be for example data corresponding to an environmental condition in the robot s environment. The instructions received from the server may be for example instructions to transmit a notification. The data received from the server may be for example an environmental condition threshold. The server interface may be configured to transmit and receive other information as well.

In some embodiments the server interface may be a wireless interface. To this end the server interface may include an antenna and a chipset for communicating with the server over an air interface. The chipset or server interface in general may be arranged to communicate according to one or more types of wireless communication e.g. protocols such as Bluetooth communication protocols described in IEEE 802.11 including any IEEE 802.11 revisions cellular technology such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities. Alternately or additionally the server interface may be a web based application supported by the server and running on the robot client . The server interface may take other forms as well.

The notification interface may be any interface configured to transmit a notification. For example the notification interface may be an interface configured to transmit the notification to a remote device such as the remote device described above in connection with or to a call center such as the call center described above in connection with . To this end the notification interface may be for example a wireless interface such as any of the wireless interfaces described above.

The on board sensors may be any sensors configured to collect data corresponding to environmental conditions. On board sensors may include any of the on board sensors described above.

The remote sensor interface may be any interface configured to collect data corresponding to environmental conditions from one or more remote sensors. The remote sensors may include any of the remote sensors described above. The remote sensor interface may be for example a wireless interface such as any of the wireless interfaces described above.

The processor may comprise one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors. To the extent the processor includes more than one processor such processors could work separately or in combination. Further the processor may be integrated in whole or in part with the server interface the notification interface any of the on board sensors the remote sensor interface and or with other components.

Data storage in turn may comprise one or more volatile and or one or more non volatile storage components such as optical magnetic and or organic storage and data storage may be integrated in whole or in part with the processor . Further data storage may contain instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor to carry out various robot functions.

For example the instructions may be executable by the processor to control the on board sensors to collect data and in some cases to analyze the data. The instructions may be further executable by the processor to control the remote sensor interface to receive the data collected by the remote sensors and in some cases to analyze the data. The data collected through the on board sensors and or the remote sensor interface may be data corresponding to an environmental condition in an environment of the robot .

Further the instructions may be executable by the processor to transmit the data collected through the on board sensors and or the remote sensor interface to the server via the server interface and to receive the instructions to transmit a notification from the server via the server interface . Alternately or additionally the instructions may be executable by the processor to transmit to the server a request for an environmental condition threshold corresponding to the environmental condition and to receive the environmental condition threshold. Further the instructions may be further executable by the processor to make a comparison of the data collected through the on board sensors and or the remote sensor interface with the environmental condition threshold and based on the comparison decide to transmit a notification.

Further the instructions may be executable by the processor to transmit the notification. The instructions may be executable by the processor to perform other robot functions as well.

In some embodiments the client device may be a module that can be connected to and disconnected from the robot . For example the client device may be a mobile device or tablet computer. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments the client device may be configured to physically connect to the robot such as by sitting on a chest of the robot to form an interactive display. In other embodiments the client device may be configured to wirelessly connect to the robot through for example a Bluetooth connection. Other wireless technologies are possible as well.

In some embodiments the client device may include one or more sensors that when the client device is connected to the robot serve as the on board sensors for the robot . For example in embodiments where the client device comprises a tablet computer the sensors may include those often found in tablet computers such as for example GPS receivers and cameras. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments the client device may be configured to interact with the server whether connected to the robot or not and may share information with the robot when connected. This may allow a user to download new routines for the robot from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select this routine using the client device to download the routine from the cloud and when the client device is placed into or coupled to the robot the robot would be able to perform the downloaded action. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments one or more of the server interface the notification interface the on board sensors the remote sensor interface the processor and the data storage may be modules that can be removably connected to the client device and or the robot . For example one or more on board sensors may be removably connected to the client device and or the robot . This may allow a user to configure the types of data that will be collected by the robot . For example a user may connect an ambient temperature sensor to the client device and or the robot and the robot may then be able to collect data corresponding to the ambient temperature in an environment. Further this may allow the robot to vary power consumption based on for example a battery power level of the robot . For example the robot may power off one or more on board sensors to conserve power. Other examples are possible as well.

In embodiments where one or more of the client device the server interface the notification interface the on board sensors the remote sensor interface the processor and the data storage are modules any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot .

The mechanical actuators may include a moveable base motors wheels movable arms and or other elements that enable robot to move in or interact with the environment.

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management etc. to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software and other examples. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework etc.

Method shown in presents an embodiment of a method that for example could be used with systems devices and servers described herein. Method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in a sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that store data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium a tangible storage device or other article of manufacture for example.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

As shown the method begins at block where a server maintains a plurality of environmental condition thresholds each of which corresponds to an environmental condition and is predetermined based on data corresponding to the environmental condition that is received from a plurality of robots. To this end the server may store the data corresponding to each environmental condition in data storage and may determine e.g. periodically or on an as needed basis the environmental condition threshold corresponding to the environmental condition using the data received from the robots. For example each environmental condition threshold may comprise a running mean of the data corresponding to the environmental condition that is received from the robots. The environmental condition thresholds may take other forms as well.

The method continues at block where the server receives from a first robot first data corresponding to a first environmental condition. The first robot may be one of the plurality of robots from which the server receives data. The first data may include or may be derived from data collected at the first robot via for example one or more on board or remote sensors. In some embodiments the first data may include the data corresponding to the first environmental condition as well as an indication of the first environmental condition. Alternately or additionally the first data may include an indication of a first environment in which the first robot is located. The first data may take other forms as well.

The method continues at block where the server makes a first comparison of the first data and a first environmental condition threshold in the plurality of environmental condition thresholds maintained at the server. Depending on the environmental condition the environmental condition threshold may be a maximum or a minimum. For example a carbon monoxide threshold may correspond to a maximum acceptable level of carbon monoxide in an environment. On the other hand a temperature threshold may correspond to a minimum acceptable temperature in an environment. Generally the first comparison may indicate whether the first environmental condition is at an acceptable level or an unacceptable level in the first environment.

The method continues at block where based on the first comparison the server triggers a notification. For example if the first comparison indicates that the first environmental condition is at an unacceptable level the server may trigger the notification while if the first comparison indicates that the first environmental condition is at an acceptable level the server may not trigger the notification. In some embodiments the server may only trigger the notification if the first environmental condition is at an unacceptable level for a certain amount of time. In one instance the first environmental condition threshold may be a threshold range. An acceptable level may therefore be a level that is within the threshold range while an unacceptable level may be a level that is outside of the threshold range. Other examples are also possible and the example of a threshold range is not meant to be limiting.

The notification may take several forms depending on the recipient. For example the notification may be a Short Message Service SMS or Multimedia Message Service MMS message a telephone call e.g. a prerecorded message or an email. Further the notification message may include instructions to display a visual notification e.g. an SMS or MMS message an email a visual alarm or a light to emit an audible notification e.g. a prerecorded message or an alarm to power on to power off to modify one or more parameters and or to perform one or more tasks. The notification may take other forms as well.

Triggering the notification may involve the server causing the first robot to transmit the notification. To this end the server may transmit to the first robot instructions to transmit the notification. The instructions may include for example an indication of the first environmental condition and indication of the unacceptable level and or an indication of one or more entities to which the notification should be transmitted. Alternately or additionally triggering the notification may involve the server directly transmitting the notification to the one or more entities. Example entities include a laptop mobile telephone smartphone personal digital assistant tablet personal or cellular telephone one or more of the remote sensors and a call center such as an emergency call center a public safety answering point and or other service center. Other entities are possible as well.

In some embodiments triggering the notification may involve making a determination whether the notification comprises an emergency notification. When the notification comprises an emergency notification the server and or robot may transmit the notification to both the emergency call center and the remote device s while when the notification does not comprise an emergency notification the server may transmit the notification only to the remote device s .

In some embodiments the method may further include the server receiving data from a second robot. is a block diagram of an example method of a second robot interacting with the cloud to monitor the environmental condition in a second environment. As shown the method may continue at block where the server receives from a second robot second data corresponding to the first environmental condition in a second environment. The second environment may be co located with the first environment or may be remote from the first environment. For example the first environment may be a first home and the second environment may be a second home next door to the first home. Other examples are possible as well.

The method may continue at block where the server makes a second comparison of the second data and the first environmental condition threshold. Similar to the first comparison the second comparison may generally indicate whether the first environmental condition is at an acceptable level or an unacceptable level in the second environment.

The method may continue at block where based on the first and second comparisons the server makes a third determination whether neither exactly one or both of the first data and the second data is at an unacceptable level.

Responsive to a determination that neither of the first data and the second data is at an unacceptable level the server may not trigger a notification at block . Further responsive to a determination that both of the first data and the second data is at an unacceptable level the server may also not trigger a notification at block . Still further responsive to a determination that exactly one of the first data and the second data is at an unacceptable level the server may trigger a notification at block . This may prevent the robot from triggering a notification based on an event outside the robot s environment.

For example the first environmental condition may be a noise level. When neither of the first data and the second data indicates that the noise level in the first and second environments respectively is at unacceptable level there may be no need for the server to trigger a notification. Similarly when both of the first data and the second data indicate that the noise level in the first and second environments respectively are at unacceptable level there may be no need for the server to trigger a notification. This is because if the noise levels in both the first and the second environments are unacceptable the source of the noise may not be local to either of the first and second environments. In the example where the first and second environments are neighboring houses for instance the source of the noise may be in the street such that there is no need to trigger a notification from either of the first and second environments. On the other hand when exactly one of the first data and the second data indicates that the noise level in exactly one of the first and second environments is at an unacceptable level there may be a need for the server to trigger a notification. This is because if the noise level is only unacceptable in exactly one of the first and second environments the source of noise is likely local to the exactly one environment.

In some embodiments the comparison of data collected at a robot and an environmental threshold as described above at block may be carried out by the robot rather than at the server. is a block diagram of another example method of a robot interacting with the cloud to monitor an environmental condition in an environment.

The method begins at block where a robot collects data corresponding to an environmental condition from at least one of an on board sensor and a remote sensor. The on board and remote sensors may take any of the forms described above.

At block the robot transmits to a server a request for an environmental condition threshold corresponding to the environmental condition. To this end the robot may transmit to the server one or more of an indication of the environmental condition an indication of the robot and an indication of the robot s environment. The robot may transmit to the server other information as well.

At block the robot receives from the server an indication of the environmental condition threshold. At block the robot makes a comparison of the data and the environmental condition threshold. The comparison may generally indicate whether the environmental condition is at an acceptable or an unacceptable level.

At block the robot may based on the comparison transmit a notification. For example if the comparison indicates that the environmental condition is at an unacceptable level the robot may trigger the notification while if the comparison indicates that the environmental condition is at an acceptable level the robot may not trigger the notification. In some embodiments the robot may only trigger the notification if the environmental condition is at an unacceptable level for a certain amount of time.

Triggering the notification may involve the robot transmitting the notification to the one or more entities such as any of the entities described above.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

