---

title: Drought tolerant transgenic plants and method of making same
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to drought tolerant transgenic plants and methods of creating the drought tolerant transgenic plants. In one embodiment, plants are transformed such that a PYL polypeptide is overexpressed in the plant. In an embodiment, the plant is transformed with a cassette or vector that comprises a polynucleotide encoding for one or more of the PYL polypeptides, which may be under the control of an inducible or constitutive promoter. In embodiments, overexpression of PYL13 results in plants having increased drought tolerance, such as a decreased transpiration rate, a decreased stomatal conductance, an increased photosynthetic rate, accelerated stress responsive gene expression, and increased water use efficiency, and/or an increased survival rate compared to a control plant. In some embodiments, other PYL proteins having the single point mutations identified in PYL13 are expressed in the plant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09518268&OS=09518268&RS=09518268
owner: PURDUE RESEARCH FOUNDATION
number: 09518268
owner_city: West Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
This non provisional U.S. patent application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 856 198 entitled DROUGHT TOLERANT TRANSGENIC PLANTS AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME filed Jul. 19 2013 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under GM059138 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Abscisic acid ABA is an important phytohormone that participates in plant abiotic stress signaling. In some plants endogenous ABA is produced in response to environmental stresses such as heat stress water stress and salt stress. Under these conditions an increase in ABA triggers a pathway that ultimately results in an increased expression of stress tolerance related genes. These stress tolerance related genes are typically inhibited by enzymes called clade A protein phosphatases type 2Cs PP2Cs comprising ABI1 ABI2 HAB1 HAB2 AHG1 PP2CA HAI1 HAI2 and HAI3 but the inhibition is released and the stress tolerance related genes are expressed in the presence of ABA and a family of PYR PYL RCAR proteins hereafter referred to as PYLs .

The PYLs are ABA receptors in the cytoplasm and nucleus Fujii et al. 2009 Ma et al. 2009b Park et al. 2009 . The PYL family has 14 members in including PYR1 and PYL1 13 each containing a START domain. Several of the PYLs have been shown to bind to and inhibit PP2Cs in the presence of ABA Fujii et al. 2009 Ma et al. 2009b Park et al. 2009 . Structural studies confirmed that the PYLs are ABA receptors and found the PP2Cs can function as co receptors because they enhance the ABA binding affinities of the PYLs Santiago et al. 2009 Yin et al. 2009 . In protoplasts PYR1 and PYL1 12 relieved PP2C ABI1 inhibition of ABA dependent activation of RD29B LUC expression by the SnRK2 protein kinases such as OST1 SnRK2.6 Fujii et al. 2009 .

PYLs have an ABA binding pocket comprised of four highly conserved regions named CL1 4 Yin et al. 2009 . The structure of PYL changes after ABA binding Santiago et al. 2009 Yin et al. 2009 allowing the formation of an ABA PYL PP2C complex and the inhibition of PP2Cs thus releasing the inhibition of SnRK2.2 2.3 2.6 by clade A PP2Cs. SnRK2.2 2.3 2.6 are positive regulators of ABA signaling. Activated SnRK2.2 2.3 2.6 can phosphorylate and activate transcription factors such as ABFs AREBs to induce the expression of ABA responsive genes such as RD29B Fujii et al. 2009 . In guard cells the SnRK2s can also phosphorylate and activate the NADPH oxidase catalytic subunit RBOHF leading to the production of reactive oxygen species ROS .

The interactions between PYLs and PP2Cs are highly specific. Many monomeric PYL proteins may also interact with certain PP2Cs in an ABA independent manner in yeast two hybrid assays and pull down assays Hao et al. 2011 Park et al. 2009 . However this interaction is weak and in the particular case of PYL10 ABI1 interaction the dissociation constant Kd changed from 1.2 M without ABA to 0.02 M with ABA Hao et al 2011 indicating that the interaction between PYL10 and ABI1 is enhanced by ABA. In vitro assays found that PYL10 shows obvious ABA independent inhibition of ABI1 HAB1 and HAB2 with a PYL PP2C ratio of 1 1 and PYL5 10 except the untested PYL7 show ABA independent inhibition of ABI1 HAB1 HAB2 and PP2CA to different degrees with the PYL PP2C ratio of 10 1 and 100 1 Hao et al. 2011 . However the ABA independent inhibitions are much weaker than ABA dependent ones.

Although the PYL family proteins have been studied intensively in recent years little information is available for PYL13 which differs from other PYLs in the highly conserved regions of their ABA binding pocket.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to new drought tolerant transgenic plants and methods of creating the drought tolerant transgenic plants. In an embodiment a transgenic plant having increased drought tolerance compared to a control plant is provided. In an embodiment the transgenic plant is transformed with a recombinant DNA construct comprising a polynucleotide sequence which comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide that is at least 95 identical to a PYL protein such as SEQ ID NO 1.

In a further embodiment the polypeptide consists of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments the polynucleotide sequence encodes a polypeptide having at least one homologous point mutation based on the Q38K F71L and T135N variations from PYL13. For example the polypeptide is based on an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 149 SEQ ID NO 150 SEQ ID NO 151 SEQ ID NO 152 SEQ ID NO 153 SEQ ID NO 154 SEQ ID NO 155 SEQ ID NO 156 SEQ ID NO 157 SEQ ID NO 158 SEQ ID NO 159 SEQ ID NO 160 and SEQ ID NO 161 wherein the at least one homologous point mutation is inserted into the amino acid sequence via the polynucleotide sequence.

In an exemplary embodiment the polypeptide is overexpressed compared to the control plant. In some embodiments the polynucleotide sequence is operably linked to a promoter. For example the promoter may be selected from the group consisting of a constitutive promoter an inducible promoter a tissue specific promoter and a stress responsive promoter. In some embodiments the transgenic plant exhibits an increased survival rate after drought as compared to the control plant. In some embodiments the transgenic plant comprises at least one characteristic selected from the group consisting of a decreased relative transpiration rate a decreased relative stomatal conductance an increased relative photosynthetic rate and an increased relative water use efficiency as compared to the control plant. In still further embodiments the transgenic plant comprises accelerated stress responsive gene expression as compared to the control plant. The accelerated stress response gene expression may be selected from the group consisting of RD29A KIN1 COR15A and RAB18. In a still further embodiment a transgenic seed obtained from the transformed plant of claim and wherein the transgenic seed comprises said recombinant DNA construct is provided.

The control plant can be a wild type plant a calibrator transgenic line or any other plant suitable for the purpose of comparison.

In one embodiment the gene encoding the PYL polypeptide is under the control of a tissue specific promoter. In one embodiment the gene encoding the PYL polypeptide is under the control of a stress responsive promoter. In one embodiment the gene encoding the PYL polypeptide is under the control of a constitutive promoter. In some embodiments the constitutive promoter is the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. In one embodiment the gene encoding the PYL polypeptide is under the control of a temporal specific promoter.

In one embodiment a method of producing a transgenic plant with increased drought tolerance as compared to a control plant is provided. In an embodiment the method includes i providing a recombinant DNA construct comprising a polynucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide that is at least 95 identical to a PYL protein such as SEQ ID NO 1 and ii introducing the recombinant DNA construct into a plant to produce a transgenic plant wherein the transgenic plant exhibits increased drought tolerance. In an embodiment the polypeptide consists of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments other PYL proteins modified with the variations identified in PYL13 are used. In an embodiment the method further includes crossing the transgenic plant with itself or crossing the transgenic plant with another plant to produce a transgenic seed.

In some embodiments a construct comprises a plasmid or vector containing a gene of interest along with promoter and regulator sequences associated with expression and regulation of the gene of interest in the recipient cell.

Other aspects and features as recited by the claims will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the following non limited detailed description of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Additionally while embodiments are disclosed as comprising elements it should be understood that the embodiments may also consist of elements or consist essentially of elements. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Throughout this disclosure various information sources are referred to and or are specifically incorporated. The information sources include scientific journal articles patent documents textbooks and websites. While the reference to these information sources clearly indicates that they can be used by one of skill in the art each and every one of the information sources cited herein are specifically incorporated in their entirety whether or not a specific mention of incorporation by reference is noted. The contents and teachings of each and every one of the information sources can be relied on and used to make and use embodiments of the disclosure.

The present disclosure is based on a newly discovered link between over expression of PYL13 and drought tolerance in plants. To test the function of PYL13 the interaction of PYL13 with clade A PP2Cs and the effects of PYL13 on the PP2Cs was examined both in vitro and in vivo. PYL13 was found to bind to the PP2Cs and in particular can constitutively inhibit PP2CA in an ABA independent manner. Unexpectedly PYL13 interacts with the other PYLs and can reduce the ability of other PYLs to inhibit PP2Cs. Transgenic plants over expressing PYL13 exhibit improved drought resistance and increased sensitivity to ABA inhibition of germination and postgermination seedling establishment while pyl13 mutant plants are less sensitive to ABA inhibition of postgermination seedling establishment indicating that PYL13 is functionally important in planta. Further modifying the other PYL proteins i.e. PYR1 and PYL1 12 with single point mutations that mimic the variation found in PYL13 based on sequence alignment results in generating mutant PYL proteins that exhibit the same or better effect as over expression of wild type PYL13 in plants with respect to expressing stress tolerance genes.

The present disclosure is directed to providing drought resistance to various plant species. The present disclosure provides a novel transgenic plant and method of producing transgenic plants that have increased drought tolerance. In an embodiment the transgenic plant has increased expression of a PYL protein such as PYL13. For example in an embodiment the transgenic plant has an expression cassette comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes PYL13. The expression cassette may be a part of a vector transformed into the plant or may be incorporated into the plant DNA. While exemplary nucleotide sequences will be provided herein it should be understood that additional nucleotide sequences may encode the same protein due to the degeneracy of the DNA code. The transgenic plant may comprise these additional nucleotide sequences in addition to or instead of the nucleotide sequences recited herein. In some embodiments the expression cassette comprises a promoter and or additional elements that facilitate the expression or over expression of the PYL protein in the transgenic plant. Incorporation and expression of the gene or functionally similar genes can result in drought resistant plants.

In an embodiment a transgenic plant having increased drought tolerance as compared to a control plant is provided. In an embodiment the transgenic plant is transformed with a recombinant DNA construct comprising a polynucleotide sequence which comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide that is at least 95 identical to the following amino acid sequence 

For example the polypeptide may differ at up to 5 of the residues compared to SEQ ID NO 1 while still retaining the ability to increase drought tolerance in plants. In an embodiment one or more of the point mutations e.g. Q38 in CL1 F71 in CL2 and T135 in CL4 as shown in are conserved in the polypeptide. In an exemplary embodiment the polypeptide consists of SEQ ID NO 1. Given that the construct comprises the polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide additional amino acids may be appended to one or both ends of the polypeptide whether the polypeptide comprises at least 95 of SEQ ID NO 1 or consists of SEQ ID NO 1. In a further embodiment the transgenic plant exhibits overexpression of PYL13 based on the construct and one or more promoters associated with the polynucleotide sequence.

The transgenic plant may be any type of plant. For example the transgenic plant may be a monocot or a dicot. As further examples the transgenic plant may be an angiosperm a gymnosperm an algae etc. In exemplary embodiments the transgenic plant is a crop such as a crop that may have a reduced yield when under drought stress. The transgenic plants and methods disclosed herein may increase the yield of the crop plants when under drought stress as compared to control crop plants.

The term drought as used herein refers to the set of environmental conditions under which a plant will begin to suffer the effects of moisture deprivation such as decreased stomatal conductance and photosynthesis decreased growth rate loss of turgor wilting or ovule abortion. Plants experiencing drought stress typically exhibit a significant reduction in biomass and yield. Water deprivation may be caused by lack of rainfall or limited irrigation. Further water deficit may be caused by high temperatures low humidity saline soils freezing temperatures competition for limited moisture in the rooting zone or damaged roots. Plant species vary in their capacity to tolerate water deficit and therefore the precise environmental conditions that cause drought stress cannot be generalized. For example CAM plants may experience drought stress under different conditions compared to C3 or C4 plants. However drought tolerant plants produce higher biomass and yield compared to plants that are not drought tolerant under water limited conditions and may also exhibit enhanced survivability and or delayed dessication permanent wilting point under water limited conditions. Differences in physical appearance recovery and yield can be quantified and statistically analyzed using known measurement and analysis techniques.

The term gene as used herein refers to the partial or complete coding sequence of a gene its complement and its 5 or 3 untranslated regions. A gene is also a functional unit of inheritance and in physical terms is a particular segment or sequence of nucleotides along a molecule of DNA or RNA in the case of RNA viruses involved in producing a polypeptide chain. The latter may be subjected to subsequent processing such as chemical modification or folding to obtain a functional protein or polypeptide. A gene may be isolated partially isolated or found with an organism s genome. By way of example a transcription factor gene encodes a transcription factor polypeptide which may be functional or require processing to function as an initiator of transcription.

The term operably linked or operably linked as used herein refers to positioning of a regulatory region and a nucleotide sequence to enable influencing transcription initiation or translation initiation or transcription termination of the nucleotide sequence

The term over expression as used herein refers to a greater expression level of a gene in a plant plant cell or plant tissue compared to expression a wild type plant cell or tissue at any developmental or temporal stage for the gene. Over expression can occur when for example the genes encoding one or more polypeptides are under the control of a strong promoter e.g. the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S transcription initiation region . Over expression may also be under the control of an inducible stress responsive or tissue specific promoter. Over expression may occur throughout the plant in specific tissue of the plant or in the presence or absence of particular environmental signals depending on the promoter used. Over expression may take place in plant cells normally lacking expression of polypeptides functionally equivalent or identical to the present polypeptides. Over expression may also occur in plant cells where endogenous expression of the present polypeptide or functionally equivalent molecules normally occurs but such normal expression is at a lower level. Over expression results in a greater than normal production or overproduction of the polypeptide in the plant cell or tissue.

The term plant as used herein includes whole plants shoot vegetative organs structures for example leaves stems and tubers roots flowers and floral organs structures for example bracts sepals petals stamens carpels anthers and ovules seed including embryo endosperm and seed coat and fruit the mature ovary plant tissue for example vascular tissue ground tissue and the like and cells for example guard cells egg cells and the like and progeny of the same. The class of plants that can be used in the method of the invention generally as broad as the class of higher and lower plants amenable to transformation techniques including angiosperms monocotyledonous plants and dicotyledonous plants gymnosperms ferns horsetails psilophytes lycophytes bryophytes and multicellular algae.

The term polynucleotide as used herein is a nucleic acid molecule comprising a plurality of polymerized nucleotides e.g. at least about five consecutive polymerized nucleotides. A polynucleotide may be a nucleic acid oligonucleotide nucleotide or any fragment thereof. In many instances a polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide or protein or a domain or fragment thereof. Additionally the polynucleotide may comprise a promoter an intron an enhancer region a polyadenylation site a translation initiation site 5 or 3 untranslated regions a reporter gene a selectable marker or the like. The polynucleotide can be single stranded or double stranded DNA or RNA. The polynucleotide optionally comprises modified bases or a modified backbone. The polynucleotide can be e.g. genomic DNA or RNA a transcript such as an mRNA a cDNA a PCR product a cloned DNA a synthetic DNA or RNA or the like. The polynucleotide can be combined with carbohydrate lipids protein or other materials to perform a particular activity such as transformation or form a useful composition such as a peptide nucleic acid PNA . The polynucleotide can comprise a sequence in either sense or antisense orientations. Oligonucleotide is substantially equivalent to the terms amplimer primer oligomer element target and probe and in some embodiments is single stranded.

The term polypeptide as used herein is an amino acid sequence comprising a plurality of consecutive polymerized amino acid residues e.g. at least about five consecutive polymerized amino acid residues. In many instances a polypeptide comprises a polymerized amino acid residue sequence that is a transcription factor or a domain or portion or fragment thereof. Additionally the polypeptide may comprise i a localization domain ii an activation domain iii a repression domain iv an oligomerization domain v a protein protein interaction domain vi a DNA binding domain or the like. The polypeptide optionally comprises modified amino acid residues naturally occurring amino acid residues not encoded by a codon and or non naturally occurring amino acid residues.

The term protein as used herein refers to an amino acid sequence oligopeptide peptide polypeptide or portions thereof whether naturally occurring or synthetic.

The term recombinant polynucleotide as used herein is a polynucleotide that is not in its native state e.g. the polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence not found in nature or the polynucleotide is in a context other than that in which it is naturally found e.g. separated from nucleotide sequences with which it typically is in proximity in nature or adjacent or contiguous with nucleotide sequences with which it typically is not in proximity. For example the sequence at issue can be cloned into a vector or cassette or otherwise recombined with one or more additional nucleic acids.

The term recombinant polypeptide as used herein is a polypeptide produced by translation of a recombinant polynucleotide. A synthetic polypeptide is a polypeptide created by consecutive polymerization of isolated amino acid residues using methods well known in the art. An isolated polypeptide whether a naturally occurring or a recombinant polypeptide is more enriched in or out of a cell than the polypeptide in its natural state in a wild type cell e.g. more than about 5 enriched more than about 10 enriched or more than about 20 or more than about 50 or more enriched i.e. alternatively denoted 105 110 120 150 or more enriched relative to wild type standardized at 100 . Such an enrichment is not the result of a natural response of a wild type plant. Alternatively or additionally the isolated polypeptide is separated from other cellular components with which it is typically associated e.g. by any of the various protein purification methods herein.

The term regulatory region as used herein refers to nucleotide sequences that when operably linked to a sequence influence transcription initiation or translation initiation or transcription termination of said sequence and the rate of said processes and or stability and or mobility of transcription or translation product. Regulatory regions include without limitation promoter sequences enhancer sequences response elements protein recognition sites inducible elements protein binding sequences 5 and 3 untranslated regions UTRs transcriptional start sites termination sequences polyadenylation sequences and introns. Regulatory regions can be classified into two categories promoters and other regulatory regions.

The term transgenic plant as used herein refers to a plant that contains genetic material not found in a wild type plant of the same species cultivar or variety. The genetic material may include a transgene an insertional mutagenesis event such as by transposon or T DNA insertional mutagenesis an activation tagging sequence a mutated sequence a homologous recombination event or a sequence modified by chimeraplasty. Typically the foreign genetic material has been introduced into the plant by human manipulation but any method can be used as one of skill in the art recognizes. A transgenic plant may contain an expression vector or cassette. The expression cassette typically comprises a polypeptide encoding sequence operably linked to appropriate inducible or constitutive regulatory sequences that allow for the expression of a polypeptide. The expression cassette can be introduced into a plant by transformation or by breeding after transformation of a parent plant.

The term wild type or wild type as used herein refers to a plant cell seed plant component plant tissue plant organ or whole plant that has not been genetically modified or treated in an experimental sense. Wild type cells seed components tissue organs or whole plants may be used as controls to compare level of expression and the extent and nature of trait modification with cells tissue or plants of the same species in which a polypeptide s expression is altered e.g. in that is has been knocked out over expressed or ectopically expressed.

The PYL family contains fourteen members. Although previous studies suggested that many are ABA receptors and have redundancy Park et al. 2009 they also showed functional differences Hao et al. 2011 . In the presence of ABA the proteins PYR1 and PYL1 12 reduced the activity of ABI1 and activated SnRK2.6 to induce RD29B LUC expression in protoplasts Fujii et al. 2009 .

To test whether PYL13 can act as an ABA receptor the ABA signaling pathway in wild type protoplasts was reconstituted. Turning now to wild type Col 0 protoplasts were used in both panels A and B. After transfection the protoplasts were incubated for 4.5 hours under light in the absence of ABA open bars or in the presence of 5 M ABA closed bars . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 . The addition of PYL2 inhibited ABI1 activity and enabled the expression of ABA dependent induction of the ABA responsive reporter RD29B LUC . However co transfection of PYL13 with ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2 did not enable the expression of RD29B LUC . ZmUBQ GUS was used as the internal control. PYL13 cannot antagonize the ability of ABI1 to inhibit the ABA dependent induction of RD29B LUC expression in protoplasts. Instead the ABA signaling pathway was reconstituted by co expression of PYLs ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2. The results suggest that PYL13 is a unique member of the PYL family and cannot function as an ABA receptor. Therefore the response of other members of the PYL family would not predict the response of PYL13 expression or over expression in plants.

As noted earlier the ABA binding pocket in PYLs consists of four highly conserved regions named CL1 4 Yin et al. 2009 . Amino acid sequence alignment shows that PYL13 differs from other PYLs in key residues in CL1 4 Q38 in CL1 F71 in CL2 N98 in CL3 and T135 in CL4 . As shown in PYL13 has a glutamine at residue 38. In contrast PYR1 and PYL1 12 have a lysine at the same position based on the sequence alignment shown in . Similarly PYL13 has a phenylalanine at residue 71 but the other PYL proteins have leucine PYL13 has an asparagine at residue 98 but the other PYL proteins have aspartic or glutamic acid both electrically charged negative amino acids and PYL13 has threonine at residue 135 but the other PYL proteins have asparagine. These differences between PYL13 and the other PYL proteins may explain why PYL13 is ABA independent while the other PYL proteins initiate expression of stress tolerance genes primarily in the presence of ABA.

To test whether these sequence variations may explain the functional difference of PYL13 point mutations Q38K F71L N98D and T135N were introduced to PYL13 to mimic the other PYLs and these mutated PYL13 were transfected together with ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2 in protoplasts. None of the single mutations in PYL13 could mimic PYR1 in elevating RD29B LUC expression. Double mutations Q38K F71L triple mutations Q38K F71L N98D and Q38K F71L T135N and quadruple mutations Q38K F71L N98D T135N of PYL13 could partially confer an ABA dependent induction of RD29B LUC expression . Q38 and F71 in CL1 2 appear to be the most important residues because PYL13 with these two residues mutated became largely functional in the reconstitution assay. N98 in CL3 appears to be not important and the T135N mutation in CL4 could enhance the ability of PYL13 mutants to inhibit ABI1 activity in the presence of ABA. Without wishing to be bound by theory these results suggest that three amino acid variations Q38 in CL1 F71 in CL2 and T135 in CL4 can explain the inability of PYL13 to act as an ABA receptor.

A previous study showed that over expression of PYL5 leads to an enhanced response to ABA and to drought resistance Santiago et al. 2009b . In this study however the plants were subjected to drought stress which elevated the endogenous ABA and initiated the expression of stress tolerance genes via the PYL PP2C binding. Given that PYL13 does not function as an ABA receptor it is not obvious that the PYL13 will have any function let alone the same function of PYL5 in plants. Further initiating the expression of stress tolerance genes without elevated ABA levels via PYL13 over expression may have benefits. For example plants may not need to be under stress and thus have elevated ABA levels prior to expressing stress tolerance genes. In this manner plants may be pre conditioned to tolerate stress conditions before the plants experience the stress conditions. Faster recovery from stress conditions such as drought may also occur.

To test the function of PYL13 over expression PYL13 over expression OE PYL13 lines were generated and three homozygous T3 lines were chosen for phenotypic analysis. Northern blot analysis indicated that PYL13 transcripts were obviously more abundant in OE PYL13 lines than in the wild type .

Turning now to in an embodiment over expression of PYL13 confers drought tolerance. For example OE PYL13 lines exhibited an improved drought resistance . Fourteen day old plants were subjected to drought treatment. The representative photographs in show plants before drought treatment after drought treatment and without drought treatment. The after drought treatment plants were photographed two days after watering was resumed. After a 24 day drought treatment in soil more than 80 of OE PYL13 transgenic plants survived and fewer than 20 of the wild type plants survived . The surviving plants were counted two days after watering was resumed. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 . The greater drought stress survival of OE PYL13 lines was associated with reduced water loss from leaves of the OE PYL13 lines. Cumulative transpiration water loss from rosette leaves detached at the same developmental stage was slower in OE PYL13 lines than in the wild type . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 . To characterize the drought resistance in OE PYL13 transgenic plants several physiological parameters were determined based on three independent transgenic lines. When water was withheld for 5 days transgenic plants over expressing PYL13 showed a slower transpiration rate than wild type plants and this was accompanied with a reduced stomatal conductance . The photosynthetic rate and water use efficiency were greater in OE PYL13 lines than in the wild type. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 . These results demonstrate that over expression of PYL13 unexpectedly and significantly confers drought resistance in

To further characterize the PYL13 over expression lines the expression of stress responsive genes including RD29A KIN1 COR15A and RAB18 in the transgenic plants was evaluated. Quantitative RT PCR was conducted on samples with 100 M ABA treatment for 0 min 20 min 40 min 1 h 2 h 3 h 6 h and 10 h. The expression levels of RD29A KIN1 COR15A and RAB18 in Col 0 before ABA treatment were set as 1. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 .

Under the unstressed control condition the transcript levels of the four tested stress responsive genes were 2 to 6 fold higher in the OE PYL13 lines than in the wild type Col 0. Expression of RD29A KIN1 COR15A and RAB18 was induced by ABA treatment in the OE PYL13 transgenic lines as well as in Col 0. However the levels of RD29A KIN1 and COR15A were higher in OE PYL13 seedlings than in Col 0 seedlings at early time points e.g. 20 and 40 min after ABA treatment. At later time points e.g. 6 h the levels of RD29A KIN1 COR15A and RAB18 in OE PYL13 seedlings was similar to that in Col 0 seedlings. These results indicate that over expression of PYL13 accelerates stress responsive gene expression in plants.

To investigate how PYL13 may function in plants the interaction between PYL13 and clade A PP2Cs in yeast two hybrid assays was examined as shown in . The results show that PYL13 binds to all PP2Cs tested in an ABA independent manner . PYL13 binds strongly with ABI1 ABI2 PP2CA and HAI2 but weakly with HAB1 and HAI1 . As shown in PYL13 interacts with clade A PP2Cs in a yeast two hybrid assay. PYL13 fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain BD was used as prey and PP2Cs fused to the GAL4 activating domain AD were used as baits. Interaction was determined by growth assay on media lacking His and His Ade in the presence and absence of ABA. Dilutions 10 10 and 10 of saturated cultures were spotted onto the plates which were photographed after 5 days.

These results were confirmed in pull down assays with purified recombinant proteins in which PYL13 interacted with all PP2Cs tested in an ABA independent manner while PYR1 interacted with ABI1 in an ABA dependent manner . In the pull down assay PYL13 binding was much stronger with PP2CA than with AHG1 ABI1 or ABI2 . As shown in recombinant PYL13 binds to clade A PP2Cs in an ABA independent manner. His tagged PYL13 22 kD and His tagged PYR1 25 kD were used to pull down PP2Cs without tag. PYL13 interacted with PP2CA AHG1 ABI1 and ABI2 independent of ABA while PYR1 interacted with ABI1 in the presence of 200 M ABA.

To determine whether PYL13 and PP2Cs may interact in an ABA independent manner in vivo c myc tagged PYL13 and hemagglutinin HA tagged PP2Cs were co expressed in protoplasts. Coimmunoprecipitation co IP assays using ABI1 HA and PP2CA HA as baits captured c myc PYL13 in an ABA independent manner . The binding of PP2CA with PYL13 again appeared much stronger than that of ABI1 with PYL13. These results demonstrated that PYL13 constitutively binds to clade A PP2Cs but that the binding intensity differs among clade A PP2Cs. The ABA independent binding of PYL13 with PP2CA and ABI1 in protoplasts is shown in . Total soluble proteins input were extracted from protoplasts that transiently expressed the indicated constructs. PP2C interacting proteins were immunoprecipitated with anti HA mouse antibodies and detected with anti HA and anti cMYC rabbit antibodies.

Although PYL10 also forms stable complexes with ABI1 in the absence of ABA the binding of PYL10 to ABI1 is much stronger in the presence than in the absence of ABA Hao et al. 2011 . In contrast interactions between PYL13 and PP2C were unaffected by ABA i.e. these interactions are completely ABA independent.

PYL13 Differentially Inhibits Clade A PP2Cs in an ABA Independent Manner and is Important for Seed Germination

PYL13 interacts with all clade A PP2Cs tested but binds most strongly to PP2CA. To investigate whether PYL13 inhibits PP2Cs in planta PYL13 was co expressed with all clade A PP2Cs in wild type protoplasts as shown in . Transfections of all PP2Cs together with SnRK2.6 and ABF2 inhibited RD29B LUC expression to different degrees see and the degree of inhibition was correlated with the intensity of interaction between PP2Cs and SnRK2.6 Fujii et al. 2009 . As shown in inhibition of RD29B LUC expression by PP2CA HAI2 and HAI3 was antagonized by PYL13 in wild type protoplasts. The ABA signaling pathway was reconstituted by co expression of PYLs PP2Cs SnRK2.6 and ABF2. RD29B LUC was used as the ABA responsive reporter. ZmUBQ GUS was used as the internal control. After transfection protoplasts were incubated for 4.5 h under light in the absence of ABA open bars or in the presence of 5 M ABA closed bars . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 9 .

As an example the PP2C interaction intensities with SnRK2.6 were ABI1 HAB1 ABI2 in yeast two hybrid Y2H assays and the inhibition of RD29B LUC expression was greater for ABI1 than HAB1 and was greater for HAB1 than for ABI2 in the protoplast experiments . Co transfections of PYL13 together with ABI1 ABI2 HAB1 HAB2 or AHG1 did not enable RD29B LUC expression but co transfections of PYL13 with PP2CA HAI2 or HAI3 enabled the ABA dependent induction of RD29B LUC expression . In the control experiments co transfections of PYR1 and PYL2 with ABI1 restored RD29B LUC expression . These results indicated that PYL13 inhibits the phosphatase activities of PP2CA HAI2 and HAI3. The ABA responsiveness of the PYL13 transfected protoplasts as well as of the protoplasts without any transfected PYLs was presumably due to the activities of endogenous PYLs present in the protoplasts.

To investigate the underlying mechanism by which PYL13 differentially inhibits the function of PP2Cs the effects of PYL13 on the phosphatase activities of purified PP2Cs was evaluated with and without ABA. The results showed that PYL13 acts as a strong constitutive inhibitor of PP2CA phosphatase activity and a weak inhibitor of ABI1 activity but has almost no inhibitory activity against ABI2 at the molar ratio of 1 1 . The inhibition by PYL13 is ABA independent whereas the inhibition by PYR1 and PYL2 is ABA induced . The activities of clade A PP2Cs were differentially inhibited by PYL13 independently of ABA. The phosphatase activities of PP2CA ABI1 and ABI2 were measured in the absence or presence of ABA 1.25 M and with or without PYLs. The concentration of PP2Cs and PYLs was 0.3 M. The Avalue of reaction without PP2C was set as 0 and that of the reaction with PP2C but without ABA and PYLs was set as 100 . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 6 for PP2CA and ABI2 and n 3 for ABI1 .

As shown in PYL13 reduced PP2CA phosphatase activity to 55 5 without ABA and to 54 5 with 1.25 M ABA and reduced ABI1 phosphatase activity to 75 3 without ABA and to 75 3 with 1.25 M ABA. In contrast PYL13 only reduced ABI2 phosphatase activity to 89 8 without ABA and to 93 6 with 1.25 M ABA and this level of activity did not differ from that in the buffer control with ABA 93 5 . These results show that PYL13 differentially inhibits the phosphatase activities of PP2Cs in an ABA independent manner. One skilled in the art would not expect the results from the ABA dependent PYL proteins to apply to PYL13.

The basal RD29B LUC expression level was elevated in protoplasts co transfected with PP2CA PYL13 HAI2 PYL13 or HAI3 PYL13 which is consistent with PYL13 inhibition of these PP2Cs in an ABA independent manner in vivo . To exclude interference by endogenous PP2Cs in wild type protoplasts and to assess the ABA independent selective inhibition of PP2Cs by PYL13 PYL13 was co expressed with PP2CA HAI1 HAI2 and HAI3 in abi1 hab1 abi2 triple mutant protoplasts as shown in . After transfection protoplasts were incubated for 4.5 h under light in the absence of ABA. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 . This mutant is deficient in ABI1 HAB1 and ABI2 but does not show strong constitutive activation of SnRK2.2 2.3 2.6 Fujii et al. 2009 . Expression of RD29B LUC in the absence of ABA was increased in the co transfections of PP2CA PYL13 HAI2 PYL13 or HAI3 PYL13 together with SnRK2.6 and ABF2 but an increase was not observed in the control transfections of PYL13 HAI1 or PYL2 PP2CA . The quadruple mutation Q38K F71L N98D T135N abolished the ability of PYL13 to elevate RD29B LUC expression in the absence of ABA indicating that the four amino acid variations are responsible for the ABA independent inhibition of PP2Cs by PYL13 . These data further suggested that PYL13 inhibits PP2CA HAI2 and HAI3 in an ABA independent manner in vivo.

Over expression of AtPP2CA resulted in ABA insensitivity while knockout of AtPP2CA caused ABA hypersensitivity during seed germination Kuhn et al. 2006 . Given the strong inhibition by PYL13 on PP2CA activity in vitro and in vivo PYL13 over expression was investigated to determine whether PP2CA function in planta is impacted. Seed germination of PYL13 over expression lines on MS medium containing 0.0 0.5 or 1 M ABA was evaluated. The panels show the percentage of seeds with emerged radical. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 . In the absence of exogenous ABA OE PYL13 seeds germinated as well as wild type seeds left panel . In the presence of 0.5 M ABA the germination of OE PYL13 1 was greatly inhibited by ABA middle panel . In the presence of 1 M ABA ABA hypersensitive inhibition of seed germination was observed for OE PYL13 1 and OE PYL13 7 right panel . Postgermination seedling establishment inhibition at 0.2 M ABA level was observed for OE PYL13 1 . The germination sensitivity to ABA was correlated with the expression level of PYL13 as shown in the Northern blot analysis in . Ethidium bromide stained rRNA bands are shown as the loading control. In contrast pyl13 1 SALK 041176 and pyl13 2 SALK 071488 mutants are less sensitive to ABA inhibition of postgermination seedling establishment . The open box in indicates exon. The two T DNA insertions are also indicated. shows seedling establishment of the wild type pyl13 mutants and OE PYL13 transgenic line in MS medium and MS plus 0.2 M ABA. The panels show the percentage of seeds that developed green cotyledons. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 .

The genetic results are consistent with the observation of PYL13 inhibition of PP2CA and the known function of PP2CA in seed germination and postgermination seedling establishment.

To further investigate the molecular mechanism of PYL13 function in plants transgenic plants expressing tagged PYL13 under the native PYL13 promoter ProPYL13 PYL13 HA YFP were generated. provides an analysis of YFP expression in ProPYL13 PYL13 HA YFP lines using Northern blotting. Ethidium bromide stained rRNA bands are shown as the loading control. Purified PYL13 associated proteins were also generated using anti GFP agarose in extracts of floral organs of the transgenic plants . PYL13 HA YFP protein was detected with anti GFP mouse antibodies ROCHE . PYL13 associated proteins were identified by mass spectrometric analyses. The associated proteins included not only PP2CA and HAI1 but also PYL2 and PYL9. While the result confirmed the interaction of PYL13 and PP2Cs in planta it also raised the possibility of PYL13 interaction with and affecting the activities of other PYLs.

To confirm the interaction between PYL13 and PYL2 PYL9 and to determine whether PYL13 may bind with other PYLs the interaction of PYL13 with PYLs was examined in yeast two hybrid assays as shown in . In this experiment PYL13 interacted with PYR1 PYL1 4 PYL6 and PYL11 12 in an ABA independent manner . PYL13 fused to the GAL4 activating domain AD was used as prey and PYLs fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain BD were used as baits. Interaction was determined by growth assay on media lacking His and His Ade in the presence and absence of ABA. Dilutions 10 10 and 10 of saturated cultures were spotted onto the plates which were photographed after five days. These results thus confirmed the interaction between PYL13 and PYL2 identified in immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometric experiments but failed to detect an interaction between PYL13 and PYL9. Without wishing to be bound by theory the lack of interaction between PYL14 and PYL9 may be caused by the cellular differences between yeast and or because of indirect interactions between the two proteins in

To further characterize the interactions between PYL13 and PYLs in vivo their interactions in protoplasts were examined by the firefly luciferase LUC complementation assay. PYL13 was fused to the C terminal domain of LUC PYL13 cLUC and PYLs were fused to the N terminal domain of LUC PYLs nLUC and co expressed in protoplasts. After transfection protoplasts were incubated overnight under light at room temperature and the LUC activities in living protoplasts were measured. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 6 . The relative LUC activities were measured and the results suggested that PYL13 binds to all PYLs tested but with different intensities . PYL13 binds more strongly to PYR1 PYL1 5 PYL7 and PYL10 11 than to PYL6 PYL8 9 or PYL13 .

The direct interactions between PYL13 and two of the PYLs were also verified in pull down assays with purified recombinant proteins. GST tagged PYL1 51 kD and PYL2 46 kD were pulled down by His tagged PYL13 22 kD in an ABA independent manner . Previous structural and biochemical investigations demonstrated that several PYLs such as PYR1 PYL1 PYL2 PYL3 form homo dimers in solution and that the dimer formation is important in regulating ABA binding and PP2C interactions Hao et al. 2011 Santiago et al. 2009 Yin et al. 2009 . These results indicate that PYL13 can form heterodimers with other PYLs.

To test the functional significance of potential heterodimer formation between PYL13 and other PYLs the abilities of PYL1 and PYL2 and the protein complexes PYL13 PYL1 and PYL13 PYL2 to inhibit the phosphatase activity of ABI1 were compared using purified recombinant proteins and the synthetic phosphatase substrate pNPP. The results show that inhibition of ABI1 in the presence of ABA was less for the PYL13 PYL dimers than for the PYLs alone . The phosphatase activity of ABI1 was measured using pNPP in the absence or presence of 10 M ABA with or without PYLs and with PYL13 PYL dimers. The concentration of ABI1 and PYLs was 0.3 M. The Avalue of reaction without ABI1 was set as 0 and that of the reaction with ABI1 but without ABA and PYLs was set as 100 . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 6 . In the presence of 10 M ABA ABI1 phosphatase activity was reduced to 67 6 by PYL1 but only to 88 8 by PYL13 PYL1. In the presence of 10 M ABA ABI1 phosphatase activity was reduced to 50 3 by PYL2 but only to 78 10 by PYL13 PYL2. These results indicate that by forming heterodimers PYL13 can reduce the ability of PYL1 and PYL2 to inhibit the phosphatase activity of ABI1 in vitro.

To investigate the physiological significance of the binding between PYL13 and PYLs in vivo PYL13 was co expressed with one of the other PYLs ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2 in wild type protoplasts. When the transfected PYL13 plasmid was 2 fold of that of the other PYLs co transfections with PYL13 decreased the activity of the ABA responsive PYLs . The designation 2 PYL13 indicates that the concentration of PYL13 plasmids was two fold greater than that of PYL2 plasmids. ZmUBQ GUS was used as the internal control. After transfection protoplasts were incubated for 4.5 h under light in the absence of ABA open bars or in the presence of 5 M ABA closed bars . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 .

As shown in the level of inhibition by PYL13 depended on the PYL and ranged from 27 with PYL2 to 67 with PYL1. The ABA signaling pathway was reconstituted by co expression of PYL13 PYLs ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2. The designation 2 PYL13 indicates that the concentration of PYL13 plasmids was two fold greater than that of PYL2 plasmids. Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 . These results indicated that PYL13 can antagonize the activity of other PYLs in plants. Without wishing to be bound by theory PYL13 inhibition of other PYLs might result from direct interactions between PYL13 and other PYLs or from competition for the binding sites on PP2Cs.

PYL13 has dual roles in . In one role PYL13 serves as a positive regulator of ABA signaling. Yeast two hybrid pull down and co IP assays demonstrated that PYL13 interacts with all clade A PP2Cs in an ABA independent manner . Phosphatase activity assays showed that PYL13 strongly inhibits PP2CA in an ABA independent manner . The inhibitory mechanism of PYL13 differs from that previously reported for PYL5 PYL10 which also interact with and inhibit PP2C activity in the absence of ABA Hao et al. 2011 Park et al. 2009 . Although these PYLs have high basal activities ABA can enhance their interaction with PP2Cs and their inhibition of PP2C phosphatase activity Hao et al. 2011 . However ABA has no effect on PYL13 . The inhibition of PP2CA phosphatase activity by PYL13 with or without ABA is indistinguishable from that of PYR1 PYL2 with ABA . These results are supported by the reconstitution of ABA signaling in protoplasts and by the phenotypes of the PYL13 over expression transgenic plants .

PYL13 can inhibit PP2CA activity in vivo . When PYL13 was co transfected with PP2CA HAI2 or HAI3 in abi1 hab1 abi2 protoplasts the basal expression of RD29B LUC in the absence of ABA was enhanced . The PYL13 quadruple mutant Q38K F71L N98D T135N lost the ABA independent induction of the RD29B LUC basal expression level suggesting that it is these sequence variations that confer ABA independent inhibition of PP2CA HAI2 and HAI3. Moreover the phenotype of PYL13 over expression lines is similar to that of pp2ca knockout mutants Kuhn et al. 2006 whose seed germination is hypersensitive to ABA . Consistently the phenotype of pyl13 mutants is in the same pattern as PP2CA over expression lines Kuhn et al. 2006 whose seedling establishment is hyposensitive to ABA .

These results suggest that PYL13 acts as a constitutive activator of ABA signaling to maintain a higher basal level of ABA signaling under unstressed conditions and to enhance stress responses under stressed conditions which would be advantageous in dealing with the unpredictable environmental changes. Indeed transcripts of RD29A KIN1 COR15A and RAB18 were more abundant in OE PYL13 seedlings than in the wild type Col 0 under unstressed conditions and the stress responses were accelerated in OE PYL13 seedlings under ABA treatments . Thus the improved drought resistance of over expression of PYL13 plants may be explained by PYL13 inhibition of the PP2Cs in leaf tissues including the guard cells. The fact that no significant defects were observed in drought resistance in pyl13 mutant plants suggests that PYL13 may not have significant expression and or function in guard cells.

In its second role PYL13 antagonizes other ABA responsive PYLs. PYL13 can interact with other PYLs independent of ABA in immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometric analyses yeast two hybrid assays LUC complementation and protein pull down assays . PYL13 can moderately reduce the activities of other PYLs in the presence of ABA as indicated by the analysis of ABI1 phosphatase activity and protoplast assays . At later time points after ABA treatments the stress responsive genes maintain a similar expression level in OE PYL13 transgenic plants and in wild type plants . These results are consistent with the notion that PYL13 may rein in or desensitize ABA responses by antagonizing the ABA receptors. By acting as a constitutive activator role 1 and a moderate antagonist of other PYLs role 2 PYL13 may help maintain ABA signaling within a reasonable range.

Over expression of CBF1 induces COR genes and confers freezing tolerance Jaglo Ottosen et al. 1998 . Over expression of DREB1A CBF3 induces DREB1 DREB2 and RD29A genes and confers increased resistance to drought high salt and freezing stresses Liu et al. 1998 . Although OE OsMYB3R 2 exhibited enhanced cold tolerance in rice it also resulted in growth retardation under normal conditions Ma et al. 2009a . Similarly OE DREB1A in caused severe growth retardation Liu et al. 1998 and over expression of CBF1 in tomato resulted in a dwarf phenotype Hsieh et al. 2002 . These results indicate that constitutive activation of stress responsive genes increases stress tolerance but may also result in growth retardation. Thus constitutive activation of stress responsive genes may not be suitable for crop improvement. However over expression of PYL13 did not result in any abnormal growth phenotype under normal conditions. This unexpected result indicates that transgenic plants of the current disclosure perform significantly better than alternative methods of providing drought resistance or increased stress tolerance. Under normal conditions expression of the stress responsive genes was only slightly higher in OE PYL13 lines than in the wild type. Under stress conditions however these genes were induced more quickly in OE PYL13 lines than in the wild type.

PYL13 differs from other PYLs in the highly conserved ABA binding pocket CL1 4. Q38 differs from K in CL1 F71 differs from L in CL2 N98 differs from D E in CL3 and T135 differs from N in CL4 . The residues Q38 F71 N98 and T135 are different in PYL13 indicated by the single residue rectangular boxes than in other PYLs in . Q38 is located in conserved loop CL 1 F71 is located in CL2 N98 is located in CL3 and T135 is located in CL4. These conserved loops indicated by C labeled rectangular boxes are important for ABA binding dimer formation of PYLs and interaction of PYL with PP2C Yin et al 2009 . PYLs from were aligned using ClustalX 2.0.5 Larkin et al 2007 with the default settings and were viewed using the GeneDoc software Nicholas K. B. Nicholas H. B. Jr. and Deerfield D. W. II. 1997EMBNEW.NEWS 4 14.

Q38K F71L N98D and T135N were mutated on PYL13 to mimic other PYLs. None of these single mutants could mimic PYR1 or PYL2 with respect to the activation of RD29B LUC expression in protoplasts. Double mutations of PYL13 Q38K F71L and triple mutations Q38K F71L N98D could partially confer ABA dependent induction of RD29B LUC expression .

Without wishing to be bound by theory the residues Q38 and F71 in CL1 2 contribute to the unique mode of action of PYL13 and are conserved in the genus . Further T135 in CL4 can enhance the effect of Q38K F71L in inhibiting ABI1 in the presence of ABA. These results suggest that the variations in the three residues Q38 in CL1 F71 in CL2 and T135 in CL4 can explain the functional difference between PYL13 and the other PYLs which are ABA receptors. The PYL13 homologs were aligned using ClustalX 2.0.5 with the default settings and viewed using GeneDoc software.

As discussed PYL13 differs from other PYLs at the Q38 and F71 residue. In relative luciferase activity generated from stress tolerance reporters in the presence and absence of 5 M ABA is provided. shows PYL13 having Q38K and or F71L point mutations and optionally including SnRK2.6 and various PP2C enzymes e.g. AHG1 PP2CA HAI3 HAI2 HAI1 HAB2 HAB1 ABI2 and ABI1 . As shown PYL13 cannot antagonize the ability of ABI1 HAB1 HAB2 HAI1 and AHG1 to inhibit the ABA dependent induction of RD29B LUC expression in protoplasts. The ABA signaling pathway was reconstituted by co expression of PYL13 ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2. Wild type Col 0 protoplasts were used. RD29B LUC was used as the ABA responsive reporter. ZmUBQ GUS was used as the internal control. After transfection protoplasts were incubated for 4.5 h under light in the absence of ABA open bars or in the presence of 5 M ABA closed bars . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 .

To confirm that the inability of PYL13 to act as an ABA receptor is mainly contributed by the two amino acid variations Q38 in CL1 and F71 in CL2 the mutated PYL13 Q38K F71L was transfected together with all clade A PP2Cs SnRK2.6 and ABF2 in wild type Col 0 protoplasts. The Q38K F71L double mutations of PYL13 conferred an ABA dependent induction of RD29B LUC expression with ABI1 HAB1 HAB2 HAI1 and AHG1 . The Q38K F71L mutations also enhanced the ability of PYL13 mutants to inhibit PP2CA HAI2 HAI3 and ABI2 activity in the presence of ABA . These data confirmed that Q38 and F71 variations confer PYL13 functions different from other PYLs.

The results suggest that PYL13 is not an ABA receptor but that it can inhibit both the PYL receptors and the PP2C co receptors. The novel functions of PYL13 make it an important modulator of ABA signaling. Because over expression of PYL13 increases drought resistance relative photosynthetic rate and water use efficiency in transgenic plants this ABA receptor variant is useful for increasing the drought resistance of crops. Thus transgenic plants and methods of increasing stress tolerance in plants are provided when over expressing PYL13.

To gain transgenic lines with better drought tolerance mutations on other PYLs were made to mimic PYL13 s variation. depicts PYL9 and PYL11 mutants that were modified with the variations identified in PYL13. Point mutations K63Q L89F in PYL9 and K39Q L66F in PYL11 were made to PYL9 and PYL11 to mimic Q38 and F71 variations in PYL13 and these mutated PYLs were transfected together with ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2 in protoplasts. Specifically PYL9 was modified at the 63residue from a K to a Q amino acid analogous to the Q38 variation in PYL13. Similarly PYL9 was modified at the 89residue from an L to an F amino acid analogous to the F71 variation in PYL13. In PYL11 the 39residue was changed from a K to a Q amino acid and the 66residue was changed from an L to an F again analogous to the variations seen in PYL13.

The PYL9 K63Q L89F and PYL11 K39Q L66F mutations mimicked PYL13 on the inability to act as an ABA receptor in the presence of ABI1 . These results confirmed that Q38 and F71 variations are most important for the unique function of PYL13. As a result of these modifications the mutant PYL9 and PYL11 cannot antagonize the ability of the PP2C enzyme ABI1 to inhibit the ABA dependent induction of RD29B LUC expression in protoplasts. In other words introducing the variations from the PYL13 protein into PYL9 and PYL11 caused the modified PYL9 and PYL11 proteins to act in a similar manner to PYL13. The ABA signaling pathway was reconstituted by co expression of PYLs ABI1 SnRK2.6 and ABF2. Wild type Col 0 protoplasts were used. RD29B LUC was used as the ABA responsive reporter. ZmUBQ GUS was used as the internal control. After transfection protoplasts were incubated for 4.5 h under light in the absence of ABA open bars or in the presence of 5 M ABA closed bars . Error bars indicate s.e.m. n 3 .

In an embodiment a method of producing a transgenic plant with increased drought tolerance as compared to a control plant is provided. In some embodiments the method includes inserting a gene encoding a PYL protein into a construct introducing the construct into a cell to yield a transformed cell generating a transgenic plant using the transformed cell and growing the transgenic plant. In some embodiments the PYL protein is a PYL13 protein. In some embodiments the PYL protein is another PYL protein e.g. PYL9 or PYL11 modified with point mutations analogous to one or more of the variations identified in PYL13 e.g. Q38K F71L and T135N. In an embodiment the position of the position of the point mutation is identified via sequence alignment. In an embodiment the transgenic plant comprises overexpression of the PYL protein. In some embodiments the transgenic plant exhibits increased drought tolerance as compared to the control plant. In some embodiments the PYL genes originate from . In some embodiments the PYL13 protein is SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments the PYL proteins are selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 149 SEQ ID NO 150 SEQ ID NO 151 SEQ ID NO 152 SEQ ID NO 153 SEQ ID NO 154 SEQ ID NO 155 SEQ ID NO 156 SEQ ID NO 157 SEQ ID NO 158 SEQ ID NO 159 SEQ ID NO 160 and SEQ ID NO 161 which are then modified with one or more of the variations identified in PYL13 based on sequence alignment.

In some embodiments the native PYL proteins are modified in a target plant. For example a homologous protein has been identified in rice. Modifying other PYL proteins in the same family in rice and or overexpressing the PYL13 homology may result in increased drought and or stress tolerance.

In some embodiments the transgenic plant exhibits increased drought tolerance in the form of increased survival under drought stress as compared to the control plant. The control plant can be a wild type plant a calibrator transgenic line a transgenic line that does not express the transgenic gene or any other plant suitable for the purpose of comparison.

In one embodiment the insertion of the PYL13 gene results in transgenic plants having at least one of decreased transpiration rate decreased stomatal conductance increased photosynthetic rate and increased water use efficiency compared to a control plant.

In a further embodiment the insertion of the PYL13 gene in transgenic plants results in accelerated stress responsive gene expression compared to a control plant.

In another embodiment a transgenic plant containing a polynucleotide encoding for the polypeptide comprising a SEQ ID NO 1 b the full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 c the reverse full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 or d the reverse full length sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 is provided.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic plant comprising any portion of a polynucleotide encoding for the polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO 1 and having increased drought tolerance.

In one example the PYL13 gene was inserted under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Over expression of PYL13 results in plants with increased drought tolerance than the corresponding non transgenic control plants.

Although this description mainly refers to using embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the PYL13 gene it should be appreciated that these embodiments may be used to insert other PYL genes modified in accordance with the disclosure herein e.g. with point mutations into plants for modulating or altering drought tolerance.

Specific embodiments of the invention are described herein. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments and combinations of embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

The disclosure will be further explained with reference to the following examples which provide exemplary methods and products associated with the transgenic plants disclosed herein.

The PYL13 cDNA coding region SEQ ID NO 1 was amplified by RT PCR using the gene specific primers PYL13 CDSF SEQ ID NO 2 and PYL13 CDSR SEQ ID NO 3 . The amplicon was cloned into the EcoRI and SalI sites of the binary vector pCAMBIA99 1 and confirmed by sequencing.

To generate the ProPYL13 PYL13 HA YFP construct the 2.79 kb PYL13 promoter fragment amplified from Col 0 genomic DNA with the primers ProPYL13F SEQ ID NO 4 and PYL13R SEQ ID NO 5 was cloned into the SalI and BamHI sites of the modified pSAT vector with YFP and 3HA tags at the C terminal. The coding region of PYL13 from pCAMBIA99 1 PYL13 was then subcloned between the PYL13 promoter and the YFP coding sequence for example SEQ ID NO 148. The whole insertion cassette was digested with PI Psp1 and re inserted into pRCS2 htp binary plasmids.

The resultant plasmids were transformed into Col 0 as mediated by GV3101 although other methods of transforming plasmids into plants may be used as is known in the art. All transgenic plants were verified by PCR and Northern blot assays. The T3 generation was used for further experiments.

ZmUBQ GUS was provided by J. Sheen. RD29B LUC ABF2 haemagglutinin HA SnRK2.6 Flag and His PYLs were the same as reported as reported by Fujii et al. 2009 . ABF2 was replaced with ABI1 ABI2 HAB1 HAB2 AHG1 PP2CA HAI1 HAI2 and HAI3 using transfer PCR with pHBT PP2CA forward SEQ ID NO 72 and reverse SEQ ID NO 73 primers. PYR1 was replaced with PYL13 using transfer PCR with pHBT95 PYL13 forward SEQ ID NO 6 and reverse SEQ ID NO 7 primers. The pHBT His PYL13 plasmid was used for mutagenesis with the QuikChange procedure STRATAGENE with specific primers. For example the Q38K mutant in was generated using the pHBT95 Q38K forward SEQ ID NO 8 and reverse primers SEQ ID NO 9 . All plasmids were confirmed by sequencing.

PP2CA ABI1 ABI2 AHG1 PYL13 and PYL2 were cloned into the pGEX 6P 1 vector between BamHI and EcoRI sites using transfer PCR with pGEX PP2Cs or pGEX PYLs primers. For example ABI2 was cloned into the pGEX 6P1 vector using the pHBT ABI1 forward SEQ ID NO 66 and reverse SEQ ID NO 67 primer.

Assays for transient expression in protoplasts were performed as described Fujii et al. 2009 . Leaf strips 0.5 mm were cut from the middle part of second leaves using a razor blade VWR SCIENTIFIC and submerged in 15 mL of enzyme solution containing 20 mM MES pH 5.7 1.5 w v cellulase R10 YAKULT PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY 0.4 w v macerozyme R10 YAKULT PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY 0.4 M mannitol 20 mM KCl 10 mM CaCl 1 mM 2 mercaptoethanol and 0.1 BSA. The leaves were vacuum infiltrated for 30 min and then incubated without shaking for 3 h in the dark at room temperature. The enzyme protoplast solution was diluted with 15 mL of W5 solution 2 mM MES pH 5.7 154 mM NaCl 125 mM CaCl and 5 mM KCl and filtered with a 75 m nylon mesh. Protoplasts were centrifuged at 100 g for 2 min in a 30 mL round bottomed tube SARSTEDT resuspended in W5 solution and rested for 30 min at room temperature.

Before transfection protoplasts were changed into MMg solution 4 mM MES pH 5.7 0.4 M mannitol and 15 mM MgCl to a final concentration of 2 105 cells per microliter. Protoplasts 100 l were gently and thoroughly mixed with the plasmid DNA mixture less than 10 l and 110 l of PEG solution 40 w v PEG 4000 0.2 M mannitol and 100 mM CaCl incubated for 5 min washed with 440 l of W5 solution and resuspended in 50 l of WI solution 4 mM MES pH 5.7 0.5 M mannitol and 20 mM KCl . After transfection protoplasts were incubated in WI solution without ABA or with 5 M ABA under light. The protoplasts were harvested after 4.5 h frozen in liquid N2 and stored at 80 C.

The frozen protoplasts were resuspended in 50 l of protoplast lysis buffer containing 2.5 mM Tris phosphate pH 7.8 1 mM DTT 2 mM DACTAA 10 v v glycerol and 1 v v Triton X 100. Protoplast lysates 20 l were mixed with 100 l of LUC mix PROMEGA and LUC luminescence was measured with a plate reader Wallac VICTOR2 plate reader .

Protoplast lysates 2 l were mixed with 10 l of 4 methylumbelliferyl D glucuronide MUG substrate mix 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8 1 mM MUG GOLD BIOTECHNOLOGY and 2 mM MgCl . After the mixture was kept for 30 min at 37 C. 100 l of 0.2 M NaCOwas added and GUS activity was measured using the plate reader with the excitation filter at 355 nm and the emission filter at 460 nm.

All the plasmids used in this assay were purified with the QIAGEN Plasmid Maxi Kit or the QIAGEN Plasmid Midi Kit. The quality of plasmid DNA is important for high transfection efficiency. RD29B LUC 7 g of plasmid per transfection was used as the ABA responsive reporter. ZmUBQ GUS 2 g of plasmid per transfection was used as the internal control. ABF2 HA SnRK2.6 Flag PP2Cs HA except ABI1 and His PYLs were used at 3 g per transfection. ABI1 HA was used at 2 g per transfection. His PYL13 was used at 6 g per transfection when 2 PYL13 was needed and at 12 g per transfection when 4 PYL13 was needed.

cLUC and nLUC were PCR amplified from pCAMBIA NLuc and pCAMBIA CLuc and cloned into pHBT95 to form pHBT95 nLUC and pHBT95 cLUC using transfer PCR with pHBT nLUC forward SEQ ID NO 100 and reverse SEQ ID NO 101 and pHBT95 cLUC forward SEQ ID NO 102 and reverse SEQ ID NO 104 primers respectively. PYR1 PYL1 PYL11 and PYL13 were amplified and cloned into pHBT nLUC and PYL13 was cloned into pHBT cLUC between BamHI and SalI using PYL primers. For example nLUC PYR1 forward SEQ ID NO 104 and reverse SEQ ID NO 105 primers were used to amplify and clone PYR1 into pHBT nLUC. All plasmids were confirmed by sequencing.

All plasmids used in this assay were purified with the QIAGEN Plasmid Maxi Kit or the QIAGEN Plasmid Midi Kit. A 5 g quantity of purified plasmid was used per transfection. Protoplasts were incubated overnight in WI buffer containing 1 LUC mix PROMEGA . The LUC luminescence of live protoplasts was measured in 96 well plates with a plate reader Wallac VICTOR2 plate reader .

Seeds of the WT and OE PYL13 lines were collected from plants subjected to the same growth conditions and periods. The seeds were imbibed at 4 C. for four days in the dark and planted directly in soil. Plants were grown in a growth room at 22 18 C. under a 14 h light 10 h dark photoperiod with a light intensity of 100 mmoles photons ms. At seven days after sowing DAS each pot was thinned to eight seedlings of uniform size. At 14 DAS the drought stress treatment was initiated by withholding water for 24 days after which time most WT plants had died. The plants were watered after 24 days of drought and the surviving plants were counted two days later. The pots were rotated in the growth chamber every day to minimize the effect of environment. The complete experiment was repeated three times each time with at least 3 replicates and at least 3 pots per replicate.

Plants used for photosynthesis and water loss assays were grown under short day conditions 10 h light 14 h dark . After five days of drought treatment as described in the previous section photosynthesis parameters were measured. Maximal rates of stomatal conductance transpiration and photosynthesis were measured with an infrared gas analyzer 6400 LI COR Lincoln Nebr. USA and water use efficiency was calculated. After photosynthetic measurements leaf area was measured with a portable area meter 3000A LI COR . The leaves were then dried for 48 h at 65 C. and weighed. For water loss determination whole rosettes of 18 day old plants were cut from the base and weighed at indicated time points.

In the His mediated pull down assay His PYL13 and His PYR1 5 g were immobilized on PREPEASE Histidine tagged High Specificity Purification Resin USB and incubated with PP2Cs 10 g with or without 200 M ABA at room temperature for 20 min in 1 mL of binding buffer PBS containing 0.1 v v Triton X 100 . The agarose was rinsed for four times with 1 mL of binding buffer with or without 200 M ABA to remove unbound proteins and the agarose was finally resuspended in 40 l of 1 SDS loading buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 2 SDS 10 glycerol 1 mercaptoethanol 12.5 mM EDTA 0.02 bromophenol blue for 5 min at 100 C. A 10 l volume of each suspension was resolved by SDS PAGE and Coomassie blue staining.

PP2CA HA ABI1 HA and MYC PYL13 plasmids 20 g each were transiently expressed in wild type Col 0 protoplasts. After transfection protoplasts were incubated in WI buffer under light at room temperature for 16.5 h. Protoplasts were treated with 10 M ABA for 1.5 h before they were harvested frozen in liquid N2 and stored at 80 C. The frozen protoplasts were resuspended in 1 ml of immunoprecipitation IP buffer containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 150 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA 0.1 v v Triton X 100 and 1 protease inhibitor cocktail SIGMA with or without 10 M ABA and then centrifuged at 21000 g for 30 min at 4 C. The supernatant was used as input and was incubated for 4 h at 4 C. with 30 l of monoclonal anti HA agarose antibody produced in mouse SIGMA A2095 . The agarose was washed four times using IP buffer with or without 10 M ABA and finally resuspended in 50 l of 1 SDS loading buffer for 5 min at 100 C. Protein samples 8 l each were resolved by SDS PAGE and were electrotransferred onto PVDF membranes MILLIPORE . Membranes were blocked in blocking buffer PBS containing 0.1 Tween 20 PBS T and 5 skim milk for 2 h at room temperature and incubated in blocking buffer containing 1 500 diluted anti HA SIGMA SAB4300603 or 1 2000 diluted anti c MYC ABCAM ab9106 rabbit antibodies for 1 h at room temperature. After they were washed five times 5 min each with PBS T membranes were incubated for 1 h in blocking buffer containing 1 5000 diluted and stabilized goat anti rabbit HRP conjugated antibodies PIERCE 32460 . They were then washed five times with PBST and proteins were detected using Lumi Light Western Blotting Substrate ROCHE .

Phosphatase activity was measured using the colorimetric substrate p nitrophenyl phosphate pNPP SIGMA . Reactions were performed in a reaction buffer containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 25 mM Mg OAc 2 mM MnCl 0.5 mM EGTA 0.5 mercaptoethanol and 0.5 BSA. ABA and PYLs were added as indicated. The concentration of PP2Cs and PYLs was 0.3 M. Reactions were initiated by the addition of pNPP to a final concentration of 50 mM. The hydrolysis of pNPP was measured by following the absorbance at 405 nM A405 . Because His PYL13 is difficult to purify is prone to degradation and rapidly loses activity newly purified PYL13 was used for the phosphatase activity assay.

For Northern blot analysis total RNA was isolated with the QIAGEN RNeasy Mini Kit QIAGEN Valencia Calif. USA according to the manufacturer s instructions. Four microliters of RNA was loaded onto agarose gels containing formaldehyde and the gels were run at 72 volts for 4 h. After electrophoresis was completed all RNA samples were transferred to Hybond N membrane by capillary transfer. Probes for the PYL13 gene for verification of OE PYL13 lines and the YFP gene for verification of Pro PYL13 YFP 3HA transgenic lines were labeled with the PCR DIG probe synthesis kit ROCHE Nutley N.J. USA according to the manufacturer s instructions. The following primers were used for PCR reactions PYL13 forward 5 ATG GAA AGT TCT AAG CAA AAA C 3 SEQ ID NO 134 PYL13 reverse 5 TTA CTT CAT CAT TTT CTT TGT GAG 3 SEQ ID NO 135 YFP forward 5 ACG TAA ACG GCC ACA AGT TCA 3 SEQ ID NO 136 YFP reverse 5 ACT GGT AGC TCA GGT AGT GGT TGT 3 SEQ ID NO 137. Pre hybridization hybridization washes and detection were performed using the DIG high primer DNA labeling and detection starter kit II ROCHE Nutley N.J. USA according to the manufacturer s instructions.

For real time PCR assays reactions were set up with iQ SYBR Green Supermix BIORAD CA USA . The CFX96 TOUCH Real Time PCR Detection System was used to detect amplification levels and was programmed for an initial step at 95 C. for 2 min followed by 40 cycles of 15 s at 95 C. and 1 min at 60 C. Quantification was performed with three independent experiments. Relative expression levels of target genes and SD values were calculated using the 2 CT method. Primers used for real time PCR are provided in the following Table 

Proteins were extracted from Pro PYL13 YFP 3HA transgenic lines and the Col WT with an extraction buffer containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 5 mM EDTA 0.1 NP 40 10 glycerol 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride 5 mM DTT and one unit of Protease Inhibitor Cocktail SIGMA ALDRICH CA USA . Immunoprecipitation was performed with GFP polyclonal antibody INVITROGEN CA USA . The protein complex was eluted from Protein A agarose beads with urea elution buffer 8 M Urea 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 and 100 mM NaCl . After in gel digestion the protein complex was identified using Q TOF LC MS MS. MS MS spectra were processed and queried against the NCBInr protein database using the MASCOT algorithm from Matrix Science Inc. for protein identification. Peptides were identified with a mass value observed mass theoretical mass less than 1.0 D.

PYL13 homologs were obtained from The Information Resource TAIR DOE Joint Genome Institute DOE JGI and Phytozome. Protein sequences were aligned using CLUSTALX 2.0.5 Larkin et al. 2007 with the default settings and were viewed using GENEDOC software.

Researchers have identified the PYL13 homolog in rice He et al. 2014 . The researches characterize the PYL13 homolog as OsPYL12 and note that it abrogates the phosphatase activity of PP2Cs in the absence of ABA. The sequence alignment of OsPYL12 differs from the other PYL proteins of at a glutamine residue Q where the other PYL proteins in have a lysine K . Similarly the sequence alignment of OsPYL12 differs from the other PYL proteins of at a phelyalanine residue F where the other PYL proteins have leucine L . See FIG. 1 of He et al. In this manner the Q38K and F71L variation is conserved in higher plants and indicates that transgenic plants across higher plants may be modified in the manner suggested herein to produce drought tolerant varieties.

