---

title: Method and system for fail-proof patient monitoring
abstract: This disclosure relates generally to patient monitoring techniques, and more specifically to a method and a system to reduce false alarms generated by the patient monitoring system, the false alarms being associated with clinical condition of the patient. Disclosed herein is a patient monitoring method that includes monitoring one or more clinical parameters associated with condition of a patient, identifying a clinical condition based on deviation of the monitored one or more clinical parameters from corresponding one or more first predefined criteria, determining a status associated with one or more devices that monitor the deviated one or more clinical parameters, and generating a clinical alert based on the determined status not indicating an error by the one or more devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380983&OS=09380983&RS=09380983
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09380983
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140207
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Filing Number 6130 CHE 2013 filed on Dec. 27 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to patient monitoring techniques and more specifically to a method and system to reduce false clinical alerts triggered by the patient monitoring system the false clinical alerts being associated with a clinical condition of a patient.

Various technological improvements in recent times have made monitoring of patients easy and useful. The monitoring of patients by one or more devices means real time tracking of patient data which otherwise is not feasible to be conducted by a human care giver like a nurse or an attending physician. Such automated patient monitoring system has also made it possible to simultaneously monitor lot of patients without actually physically visiting them. Now in case the patient data or vitals deviate from predefined criteria the patient monitoring system automatically generates alerts to inform concerned person of the condition of the patient. The care giver or a specialist then takes next measures in accordance with the reported data. The predefined criteria may be a set of defined clinical guidelines.

Such advanced automatic patient monitoring data providing improved patient care is based on fundamental premise that the patient data that is continuously reported is deemed accurate and therefore the physician can blindly rely upon such data to decide next course of action or mediation for the patient. However in some instances the monitoring system may generate false alarms regarding the clinical condition of a patient due to some error or fault of the devices within the patient monitoring system.

It may be a matter of concern if the patient monitoring systems generates false alerts alarms which are solely relied upon by the physician or the care giver to decide the subsequent course of medication or patient care. Additionally presently available patient monitoring systems suffer from lack of sufficient measures to prevent failure of the devices within the patient monitoring system which in turn has serious impact on delivering a sustained and safe patient care by the patient monitoring system.

Disclosed herein is a patient monitoring method that includes monitoring one or more clinical parameters associated with a patient identifying a clinical condition based on deviation of the monitored one or more clinical parameters from a corresponding one or more first predefined criteria determining a status associated with one or more devices that monitor the deviated one or more clinical parameters and generating a clinical alert based on the determined status not indicating an error in the one or more devices.

In an aspect of the present disclosure a patient monitoring system includes a memory a processor coupled to the memory storing processor executable instructions which when executed by the processor causes the processor to instruct each of the one or more devices in communication with the one or more devices to monitor an associated clinical parameter identify a clinical condition based on deviation of the monitored one or more clinical parameters from corresponding one or more first predefined criteria determine a status associated with one or more devices monitoring the deviated one or more clinical parameters and generate a clinical alert based on the status not indicating an error in the one or more devices.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the present disclosure as claimed.

Now exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While exemplary embodiments and features are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the subject matter. Instead the proper scope of the subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The processor may instruct one or more devices in communication with the processor to monitor corresponding one or more clinical parameters. The processor detects patient s clinical condition based on deviation of the monitored one or more clinical parameters from a corresponding one or more first predetermined criteria. The one or more first predefined criteria may pertain to a range of values within which the values related to the monitored one or more clinical parameters should lie. Therefore the values related to the monitored one or more clinical parameters should not go below a predefined lower threshold or above a predefined upper threshold. For example the range of values within which the blood pressure of a patient should lie is 80 120 mmHg. The alarm or clinical alert may trigger when the BP of the patient falls below 80 mmHg or goes beyond 120 mmHg. Further some of the examples of the one or more clinical parameters may be respiration rate heart rate blood pressure and temperature. Further the one or more clinical parameters may include position or activity data of the patient such as lying down upright walking and sitting etc.

Further the memory is a repository of policy details defining the clinical condition of the patient. Such policy details may be a combination of clinical guidelines and specified standards of health care. Also the memory may comprise the technical specifications of the one or more devices . For example the one or more devices may be blood pressure BP or temperature or ECG device. Further the memory may comprise values pertaining to signal quality that indicates error free functioning of the patient monitoring system . The memory further provides the required benchmarking or threshold for the processor to trigger a clinical alert.

Further the processor monitors one or more machine parameters related to the one or more devices and . There may be deviation of the monitored one or more machine parameters from a corresponding one or more second predefined criteria. For example the one or more second predefined criteria may comprise a range of values for proper connectivity for transfer of data optimal operating values for the battery in the one or more devices for their proper functioning optimal signal to noise ratio. So the deviation may be loose electrical contacts in the one or more devices low battery in the one or more devices low signal to noise ratio and connectivity loss in continuous data monitoring scenario connectivity can play spoilsport and conventional patient monitoring systems will generate machine alert on account of inadequate data or improper data . In an exemplary embodiment the one or more machine parameters that are monitored may comprise electrical contacts in the patient monitoring system battery in the one or more devices signal to noise ratio and connectivity.

The processor may trigger a clinical alert if there is no deviation of the monitored one or more machine parameters from the corresponding one or more second predefined criteria. The clinical alert would not be triggered if there is deviation of the monitored one or more machine parameters from the corresponding one or more second predefined criteria. The deviation of the monitored one or more machine parameters from the corresponding one or more second predefined criteria would indicate error fault in the one or more devices . To indicate the error fault in the one or more devices a machine alert is generated. The processor may determine a status associated with the one or more devices . If the determined status indicates an error fault in the one or more devices the processor may not generate a clinical alert. In this case machine alert is generated. However if the determined status does not indicate an error fault in the one or more devices the processor may generate a clinical alert. Therefore non generation of the clinical alert when there is fault in the one or more devices would mitigate the problem of triggering of false clinical alerts.

The generation of the machine alert helps a nurse to alert the biomedical department for rescue of the system and replace the faulty device with a new one or repair it. Additionally the generated alert can also be automatically routed to the concerned technical department using the contact details as may be available in the system database. Also the machine alert can be categorized and or rated as per defined conditions to determine the nature of the failure or expected failure and its impact on the patient. Accordingly the alert alarm can be decided to be forwarded to the appropriate entities.

Data related to the patient and the one or more devices and received by the processor may be stored locally and or in cloud. Therefore the data related to patient and devices and may be made available and visible by care givers who are logging into the patient monitoring system from outside hospital.

In some embodiments processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface .

The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a method and a system to reduce false alerts alarms generated by the patient monitoring system the false alerts alarms being associated with clinical condition of the patient. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more non transitory computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A non transitory computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a non transitory computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

Other embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the disclosure being indicated by the following claims.

