---

title: Method for ultra-fast boriding
abstract: An article of manufacture and method of forming a borided material. An electrochemical cell is used to process a substrate to deposit a plurality of borided layers on the substrate. The plurality of layers are co-deposited such that a refractory metal boride layer is disposed on a substrate and a rare earth metal boride conforming layer is disposed on the refractory metal boride layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09556531&OS=09556531&RS=09556531
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09556531
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140117
---
The U.S. Government has rights in the invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Government and the University of Chicago and or pursuant to DE AC 02 06 CHJ11357 between the U.S. Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

This invention relates to article and methods for manufacture for producing a borided materials by using an ultra fast methodology. More particularly the invention relates to a method for ultra fast manufacturing of borided metal cutting and metal forming tools to increase their operating lifetime as well as provide improved performance. Further the invention relates to the ultra fast boriding of cemented carbide based tool components such as WC W alloys and high carbon high alloy steels use in metal cutting and metal forming tools.

Most mechanical components used in a variety of rolling rotating or sliding bearing applications as well as those that are used in metal cutting and forming operations rely strongly on high hardness and low friction surface properties of base metals for high performance and durability during actual uses. There are numerous surface treatment methods that are currently used to enhance the near surface properties of engineering components. Some of these methods such as nitriding carburizing carbonitriding boriding are thermo chemical in nature and based on thermal diffusion of carbon nitrogen and boron atoms into the near surface regions of these components at high temperatures. It typically takes about 8 to 10 hours to achieve case depths of 50 to 100 micrometers in the cases of nitriding and carburizing processes and as for boriding the case depths are much shallower typically 10 to 15 micrometer for the same processing time . Despite its ability to produce much harder surface layers than carburizing and nitriding boriding is not used as extensively as the other surface treatment techniques mentioned.

There are several other surface treatment methods based on the uses of laser beams such as laser shot peening glazing cladding as well as ion and electron beam processes such as ion beam deposition electron beam cladding and hardening that can also be used to achieve superior surface mechanical and tribological properties. Besides these methods there are plasma based physical and chemical vapor deposition techniques that can also produce very hard surface coatings such as TiN TiC etc. on mechanical components for improved mechanical and tribological properties. Unfortunately all of these methods require very long processing times and consume large amounts of energy.

Among the many thermal diffusion based surface treatment processes mentioned above nitriding and carburizing are used very extensively by industry to achieve greater mechanical and tribological properties on all kinds of steel components. In the case of boriding though progress has been rather slow and at the moment this technique has very limited uses. Just like nitriding and carburizing boriding is a surface hardening process in which boron atoms diffuse into the near surface region of a work piece and react with the metallic constituents to form hard borides. A deep diffusion layer also exists beneath the boride layers. At present there are several kinds of boriding methods available such as salt bath boriding fluidized bed boriding pack boriding paste boriding gas phase and plasma boriding for the production of borided surface layers. These methods are based on the uses of a variety of boron rich solid liquid or gaseous media. Fluidized bed pack and paste boriding methods use solid boron containing powders such as BC amorphous boron ferro boron etc. and other compounds during the boriding process while plasma boriding uses gaseous boron compounds in a plasma environment.

All of the boriding methods mentioned above involve a high processing temperature typically ranging from 700 to 1000 C. . These boriding methods are most appropriate for the treatment of ferrous alloys but nonferrous and cermet based materials can also be treated. For example salt bath boriding of steel substrates can be done in a complex salt bath typically consisting of 60 to 70 wt borax 10 to 15 wt boric acid and 10 20 wt ferro silicon or boron at temperatures ranging from 800 to 1000 C. 5 to 7 h of boriding of a low carbon steel substrate in such a salt bath may result in 7 to 10 micrometer thick borided surface layers.

During boriding of steel and other metallic and alloy surfaces boron atoms diffuse into the material and form various types of metal borides. In the case of ferrous alloys most prominent borides are FeB and FeB. Some of the boron atoms may dissolve in the structure interstitially without triggering any chemical reaction that can lead to boride formation. Iron borides i.e. FeB and FeB are chemically very stable and mechanically hard and hence can substantially increase the resistant of base alloys to corrosion adhesive erosive or abrasive wear. Process conditions such as duration of boriding ambient temperature type of substrate material and boriding media may affect the chemistry and thickness of the borided surface layers. Due to the much harder nature of borided layers boriding has the potential to replace some of the other surface treatment methods like carburizing nitriding and nitrocarburizing.

Boride layers may achieve hardness values of more than 20 GPa depending on the chemical nature of the base materials. TiBthat forms on the surface of borided titanium substrates may achieve hardness values as high as 30 GPa while the hardness of boride layers forming on steel or iron based alloys may vary between 14 GPa to 18 GPa. Such high hardness values provided by the boride layers are retained up to 650 C. Since there is no discrete or sharp interface between the boride layer and base material adhesion strengths of boride layers to base metals are excellent. With the traditional methods mentioned above boride layer thicknesses of up to 20 micrometer can be achieved after long periods of boriding time at much elevated temperatures. In addition to their excellent resistance to abrasive and adhesive wear the boride layers can also resist oxidation and corrosion even at fairly elevated temperatures and in highly acidic or saline aqueous media.

Materials that are most suitable for boriding include all types of ferrous metals and alloys like low and high carbon steels low and high alloy steels tool steel stainless steels carburized nitrided and carbonitrided steels and cast irons. Non ferrous metals and their alloys like titanium tantalum zirconium tungsten niobium molybdenum magnesium most nickel based and cobalt based superalloys cobalt chrome alloys tungsten and sintered carbides and or cements can also be borided.

Because of their very impressive mechanical tribological chemical and corrosion properties borided surface layers can be used in a large variety of industrial applications. In metal forming dies they can be used to protect the critical surface finish or profiles of all kinds of dies such as punching dies drawing dies bending dies hot forming and injection moulding dies forging dies extrusion dies embossing dies deep drawing and impact extrusion dies . They can also be used in insertion pins rods plungers bushings botts nozzles pipe bending devices guide rings sleeves mandrels swirl elements clamping chucks guide box metal casting inserts orifices springs balls rollers discs valve components and fittings plugs chain components etc. They will be extremely well suited for stainless steel and other metallic based mechanical shaft seals used in pumping all kinds of fluids in chemical industries. In the automotive or transportation fields they can prevent seizure galling and scuffing related failures under severe operating conditions and eliminate oxidative and corrosive degradation of a large variety of engine components. They can also be used in a variety of gear drives such as bevel gears screw and wheel gears helical gear wheels including gears bearings tappets valves and valve guides power train components piston pins rings and liners and other mechanical components in all classes of moving mechanical systems that experience heavy loading high speeds erosive corrosive and oxidative media and elevated temperatures. Other potential applications include cold and hot forging tools extrusion tools press tools glass industry tools invasive and implantable medical devices such as hip and knee joints made out of titanium zirconium cobolt chrome and other specialty metals and their alloys. Because of the very high boron content of their near surfaces borided surfaces can also provide an excellent substrate for the deposition of diamond and diamondlike carbon films on metallic substrates. In most cases diamond is very difficult to deposit on steel substrates but after the boriding process such surfaces could be very ideal for the nucleation and growth of crystalline diamond and amorphous diamondlike carbon films.

Despite their abilities to produce much harder surface layers and superior components over other methods boriding methods mentioned above are not used very extensively by industry at the moment. There are substantial problems that hinder their wider uses. Some of these problems include high cost very long processing time toxic emissions byproducts and poor surface condition or finish after the boriding process. For all of these reasons it would be very desirable to develop a new and improved boriding method that is very fast cheap safe and applicable to a wide range of materials.

Ultra fast boriding of metal cutting and forming tools is provided to increase commercial production rate as well as improve tool and and part operating lifetime and performance. In particular the invention is directed toward the boriding of cemented carbide based tool inserts like tungsten carbide WC W alloys and high carbon high alloy steels such as high speed and D2 quality steels that are used in the manufacture of metal cutting and forming tools. Ultra fast boriding process produces very hard and thick layers on these materials and makes their surfaces very resistant to wear oxidation and corrosion. Such treated tools and parts have much improved operating lifetime and performance. Boriding of WC inserts can potentially minimize or eliminate necessity of physical vapor deposition PVD or chemical vapor deposition CVD coating of these inserts or can be complimentary to such coating processes to achieve improved combined performance if applied sequentially. Boriding of WC tools or parts will create a much harder up to 3500 Vickers tungsten boride layer on the surface of the treated material. Boride layers are also chemically very stable at high temperatures which can create additional benefits since cutting operations create very high temperatures in cutting wear of cutting tool as well.

The invention also relates to boriding of group IVB VB or VIB metals Re and Si and their compounds to improve mechanical chemical and tribological properties on the surface. In a preferred article a plurality of separate thin conformal layer of Re and W boride are produced to protect an underlying alloy substrate. These boriding materials are not limited in use but primarily can be used in manufacturing industries for cutting and forming operations. Boriding tools can also be used in dry Al and Mg machining which is very difficult with existing tool materials and coatings . In addition boriding of WC Ni6 and WC Co6 can improve tribological performance of corrosion resistance of components that are commonly used in corrosive fluid handling valves nozzles rotary seals and bearings and other harsh chemical environments.

The ultra fast boriding is most preferably done in an electrochemical cell using high temperature salt baths that typically consist of borax and a range of inorganic sodium compounds. This process provides much faster and efficient boriding on different IVB VB VIB and VIIB group transition metals and their alloys. All of these metals and alloys are used extensively in metal cutting and forming operations due to their much higher resistance to heat corrosion oxidation and wear.

The process can best be performed between about 900 and 1050 C. temperature and the rate of boriding can vary with the temperature. Other important parameters that can influence the rate and quality of boriding are bath composition process duration applied current density anode cathode distance surface treatments before boriding process roughness and cleanliness of the surface cooling process after boriding and cleaning of electrolytes from the surface after boriding.

These and other advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become apparent form the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings described hereinbelow.

In are shown various systems and methods for performing boriding operations. In the preferred embodiment of the invention the system and method of is utilized. In is shows an optical micrograph of an article of manufacture having multiple boride layers and disposed on a WC substrate . These layers and are a combination of tungsten boride phases including WB WBand WB. Layer thicknesses can be varied by careful selection of electrolyte salt bath composition and this process is preferably carried out at temperatures between about 900 1050 C.

Boriding can also be done on all kinds of metallic and alloy surfaces including ferrous alloys magnesium base alloys titanium base alloys aluminum based alloys cobalt cobalt and chromium based alloys nickel tantalum zirconium molybdenum tungsten niobium hafnium and rhenium. These borided metal and alloys can be used in various manufacturing and transportation applications such as metal forming tools fuel injectors gears bearings and some of the power and drive train applications in cars and tracks.

Further show confirmation of the layered structure of the ReBouter layer 2 underlying WBlayer and the substrate of W Re alloy. The ReBouter layer 2 was determined by glancing angle 1 scans of 2 for an X ray diffractometer see . A regular 2 X ray scan see was used to identify the underlying WBlayer which also had some ReBphase intermixed and the substrate was identified by a routine 2 X ray scan.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a borided WC Ni6 alloy substrate was obtained by the method shows in . The micrograph of shows the hardness values at selected locations of the cross section and shows the various layer thicknesses.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a WC Co6 alloy substrate was borided and the X ray scan of show an outer layer of CoB and an inner layer of CoB WB. The use of Co as a binder hinders formation of WBas compared to Ni see . The hardness values for W 6 Co were also 11 12 GPa versus 31 35 GPa for the Ni alloy of . These can be compared to hardness values of diamond 115 GPa C BN 48 GPa BC 30 GPa and OsB37 CPa.

Wear testing was performed for a borided W Re alloy against a diameter wear ball of 52100 steel at room temperature and ball rotation rate of 50 rpm at a load of 1N. As shown in the wear surface shows no abrasion of the wear surface and shows coefficient of friction versus time for a 1 h test.

Wear testing was performed for a borided W Re alloy against a diameter alumina ball for the same operating conditions as Example I. As shown in the wear surface shows no abrasion of the borided surface and shows coefficient of friction versus time for the 1 h test. show an SEM image of the surface of the borided W Re surface after the test shown in . shows a cross section of the tested borided W Re surface and shows a profilometer scan of the cross section of . shows a profilometer 3D scan image from the scan of .

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

