---

title: Messaging service application programming interface
abstract: A system comprising a computer-readable storage medium storing at least one program and a computer-implemented method that enables short message service (SMS) text messaging to be integrated into existing applications is presented. Consistent with some embodiments, the method may include receiving a request from a client application to transmit a message to a recipient device. The method may further include validating the request to ensure that the telephone number is valid and that the message conforms to a predefined messaging standard. In response to successfully validating the request, the method causes transmission of the message to the recipient device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351134&OS=09351134&RS=09351134
owner: 935 KOP Associates, LLC
number: 09351134
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140830
---
This patent application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 874 864 titled SHORT MESSAGE SYSTEM APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE filed Sep. 6 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 982 156 titled SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE SUBSCRIPTION APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE filed Apr. 21 2014 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This patent application relates to data processing. In particular example embodiments may relate to an application programming interface for a messaging service.

A web service is a software system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interactions over a network. For example web services may be deployed over the Internet or an intranet to create products business processes or business to business interactions. Web services often use standard Internet protocols e.g. HTTP XML and SOAP along with one or more web application programming interfaces API to enable such interoperability.

Short Message Service SMS is a text messaging paradigm employed by many current telephone Internet and mobile communication systems. SMS utilizes a set of standardized communication protocols to enable users to exchange text message via fixed line or mobile phones.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that these examples are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the illustrated embodiments. On the contrary they are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the disclosure. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve a system that enables developers and other clients to integrate short message service SMS text messaging into existing applications. The system may include an API to receive messaging requests from client applications which in turn triggers text messages sent in real time to customers. Example messages may include order confirmations shipment notifications alerts and other status messages. The system may further generate and maintain logs of received requests for subsequent reporting to clients.

Example embodiments may involve validating requests to ensure that messages are sent to valid telephone numbers. Messages may be analyzed to verify that they conform to predefined messaging standards. For example content of messages may be filtered to ensure that they do not contain profanity.

In some instances customers may be required to be subscribed also referred to as opted in to programs prior to receiving messages. To this end example embodiments may include an interface to opt in customers to mobile alerts from hosted applications and receive a real time SMS response. Examples of hosted applications included web forms mobile applications e.g. Andriod iOS Windows Phone applications and point of sale applications.

Example embodiments may provide support for the following features opting customers in or out of mobile alerts maintaining a record of customer attributes management of multiple lists or brands e.g. customers can be opted in or out of multiple messaging campaigns tracking the source of an opt in e.g. web form ensuring telephone numbers are valid carrier verification real time SMS response follow up SMS responses e.g. offers coupons double opt in duplicate rejection support e.g. DOS prevention and in depth reporting including traffic customer carrier keyword geographic and opt in data.

The network system may include a messaging platform in communication with a client device a recipient device and a third party server . The messaging platform may communicate and exchange data within the network system that may pertain to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. The messaging platform may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to network devices such as for example the client device and recipient device . The client device may be a server residing on a client network or may be a device operated by clients who use the network system to exchange data over the network . For purposes of this disclosure a client refers to any person entity or organization that utilizes the services of the messaging platform which in some embodiments necessitates payment of a fee to send messages to customers.

In various embodiments the data exchanged within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . For example the UIs may be associated with a client device such as the client device executing a web client e.g. an Internet browser for communicating with the messaging platform . The UIs may also be associated with one or more applications executing on the client device such as a client application .

The client device may interface via a connection with the network e.g. the Internet or a wide area network WAN . Depending on the form of the client device any of a variety of types of connections and networks may be used. For example the connection to the network may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such a connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone e.g. the public switched telephone networks PSTN a packet switched data network or other types of networks .

In another example the connection to the network may be Wireless Fidelity e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. In yet another example the connection to the network may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

Turning specifically to the messaging platform a web server is coupled to and provides the client device with programmatic and web interfaces to an application server . As illustrated in the application server may be coupled via the web server to the network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. In some embodiments the web server may employ security measures such as user authentication e.g. requests include a username and password IP whitelisting e.g. clients may provide their public IP address to be granted access and Secure Sockets Layer SSL e.g. requests may use 128 bit SSL encryption .

The application server may for example host one or more applications which may provide a number of messaging services to clients. The messaging services may for example process messaging requests received from the client application . The messaging requests may be either message transmission requests or subscription requests. Upon processing a message transmission request which specifies the recipient device as the intended recipient of a message the messaging platform may cause a message e.g. an SMS text message to be transmitted to the recipient device . Upon processing a subscription request which identifies the recipient device as a target for a message subscription campaign of the client the messaging platform may cause a message to be transmitted to the recipient device that seeks to opt in a user of the recipient device to the message subscription campaign. The processing of messaging requests may include authenticating the identity of a client associated with the request e.g. the client who owns or operates the client application performing various validations of the messaging request and logging information related to the transmission of the message.

The application server is also shown to be coupled to a database server that facilitates access to a database . In some examples the application server can access the database directly without the need for the database server . The database may include multiple databases that may be internal or external to the messaging platform .

The database may store data pertaining to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. For example the database may store traffic data e.g. a record of all incoming messaging requests and outgoing messages carrier data e.g. telephone carriers of users keyword data geographic data opt out data and customer data. The customer data may for example include demographic data user interests and preferences and financial information. The demographic data may for example include information describing one or more characteristics of a user such as gender age location information e.g. hometown or current location employment history education history contact information familial relations or user interests.

The transmission of the request may be triggered by an event occurring within the client device or an external event that is detected by the client device e.g. by way of a communicative coupling to the third party server . For example the detection of a package being successfully delivered may trigger the transmission of a messaging request for the transmission of a delivery confirmation. The messaging request may be either a message transmission request which is a request that a certain message e.g. text based message be transmitted to a particular recipient or a subscription request which is a request that an opt in message be sent to a particular recipient for the purpose of confirming the recipients subscription to receive future messages sent on behalf of a client associated with the client application .

The messaging request may comprise a plurality of parameters that vary depending on whether the messaging request is a subscription request or a message transmission request. For example the parameters of a subscription request may include a recipient telephone number a list identifier e.g. if a client has multiple messaging lists an opt value e.g. to indicate if the recipient has opted in or out a recipient email address recipient name e.g. first and last name date of birth of recipient gender of recipient and address e.g. street city state and zip . The parameters of a message transmission request may for example include recipient telephone number a message e.g. a text message to be sent to the recipient an opt value e.g. to indicate if the recipient has opted in or out a recipient email address recipient name e.g. first and last name date of birth of recipient gender of recipient and address e.g. street city state and zip . The parameters may be URL encoded or provided as an extensible markup language XML payload via a POST parameter.

Upon receiving the messaging request the messaging platform may at operation authenticate a client e.g. a user associated with the client application from which the messaging request was received. The authentication of the client may include verifying a username and password combination associated with the client. The authentication may further include verifying that the internet protocol IP address of the client device corresponds to a record of the client s associated IP addresses maintained on the web server .

At operation the messaging platform transmits a response to the client device confirming receipt of the request. The response may be an XML HTTP response that includes a status code. The status code provides an indication of the status of the request. For example the status code may indicate that the request is accepted that the request could not be understood due to bad syntax that the client was not authorized that a uniform resource identifier URI was not found or that an unexpected internal error occurred. At operation the client device receives the response.

At operation the messaging platform validates the messaging request. The validation of the messaging request may include verifying that a telephone number included in the request is a valid telephone number e.g. 11 digits for US based telephone numbers verifying a telephone carrier associated with the telephone number verifying that the recipient has provided approval for receiving messages sent on behalf of the client e.g. based on the recipient having previously opted in validating the requesting client validating a list identifier and verifying that a message included in a message transmission request conforms to a predefined messaging standard e.g. verifying the message does not contain profanity .

Upon successful validation of the messaging request the messaging platform processes the request at operation and causes a message e.g. an SMS message to be transmitted to the recipient device to which the telephone number included in the messaging request is assigned at operation . In other embodiments the messaging platform may cause the message to be transmitted to the recipient device by transmitting a request that includes the telephone number an identified telephone carrier and the message to an SMS aggregator e.g. hosted by the third party server . In turn the SMS aggregator may route the message to the identified telephone carrier responsible for delivering the message to the recipient device . At operation the recipient device receives the message e.g. as an SMS message .

The web layer is responsible for providing interfaces to interact with users and may in some embodiments correspond to the web server . The web layer receives requests from external systems e.g. client device and places them into an inbound queue of the queue layer . The service layer resides on the application server and interacts with the queue layer and data layer to perform functions such as sending messages and reporting. The service layer may correspond to the messaging services discussed in reference to consistent with some embodiments. The queue layer provides a temporary first in first out holding area for items to be processed. The queue layer may reside on the application server or the database . The data layer which resides on the database stores information pertinent to carriers e.g. AT T Verizon or TMobile and short codes customers e.g. recipients of messages and traffic e.g. messaging requests received and messages transmitted .

The service layer comprises an inbound module an outbound module and a reporting module . The inbound module is responsible for processing messaging requests. The inbound module may validate and verify various aspects of messaging requests and if a request successfully passes these validations and verifications the inbound module places the request in an outbound queue of the queue layer for the outbound module to process. If a request fails one of these validations or verifications the inbound module places the request in a reporting queue for the reporting module to process.

The outbound module is responsible for transmitting messages e.g. SMS text messages to recipients. The outbound module accesses requests from the outbound queue and utilizes a direct to mobile gateway to transmit an SMS text message directly to a recipient device associated with a telephone number specified in a messaging request consistent with some embodiments. In other embodiments the outbound module may transmit a request to an SMS aggregator that routes the message to the applicable telephone carrier who is ultimately responsible for delivering the message in SMS text message format to the recipient device . If the message is successfully transmitted the outbound module places the messaging request in the reporting queue for reporting by the reporting module . If the message transmission is unsuccessful the outbound module adds the messaging request to an error log e.g. maintained by the Windows Event Viewer .

The reporting module is responsible for logging and storing pertinent information into the data layer so that it may be viewed in a report provided to clients. The data stored by the reporting module may for example include traffic customer carrier keyword geographic and opt out data. If the reporting module is unsuccessful in writing to the data layer an error is logged e.g. in the Windows Event Viewer . The reporting module may also communicate the stored data related to messaging requests to clients associated with such requests. The stored data may be communicated in a report that conveys information in a manner that is easily understood by a human user e.g. using plain text tables charts and graphs .

At operation the outbound module accesses the messaging request from the outbound queue . At operation the outbound module causes a message e.g. a message defined by the client or an opt in message to be transmitted to the recipient device . For example the outbound module may transmit a request to an SMS aggregator which routes the message to a telephone carrier that ultimately delivers the message to the recipient device . At operation the outbound module requests the status of the message transmission e.g. from the SMS aggregator . At operation the outbound module receives a response including status information e.g. from the SMS aggregator specifying the status of the message e.g. successfully delivered . At operation the outbound module adds the messaging request and the status information to the reporting queue .

At operation the reporting module accesses the messaging request and status information from the reporting queue . At operation the reporting module logs the messaging request e.g. stores a record of the messaging request in the database . At operation the reporting module logs the status information along with the messaging request e.g. stores the status information along with the record of the messaging request .

At operation the web layer receives a message transmission request from the client application executing on the client device . The message transmission request is a request to transmit a particular message to a particular recipient. As such the plurality of parameters comprising the message transmission request may include at least a telephone number and a message generated by a client associated with the client application . In an example the message is an order confirmation to confirm a purchase made using the client application that is in communication with a network based marketplace which in this example corresponds to the client.

At operation the web layer authenticates the client associated with the message transmission request e.g. the client corresponding to the client application . In some embodiments the authentication of the client may be based on username and password verification. In some embodiments the authenticating of the client may include verifying that the IP address of the client device corresponds to an IP address associated with the client by way of a record of associated IP addresses stored in the database .

Upon successfully authenticating the client the inbound module determines that the telephone number included as a parameter of the message transmission request is a valid telephone number in operation . The determination that the telephone number is valid may include verifying that the telephone number contains only digits and that the telephone number contains an appropriate number of digits. The appropriate number of digits may vary by geographic region in which the messaging platform is operating. For example telephone numbers in the United States of America include either ten or eleven digits depending on whether a preceding 1 is included.

At operation the inbound module determines that the message generated by the client and included as a parameter of the message transmission request conforms to a predefined messaging standard. The predefined messaging standard may be generated by an administrator of the messaging platform and may for example specify a certain format a particular font a word or character limit or may prohibit the use of certain terms such as profanity. As such the determination that the message conforms to the predefined messaging standard may include verifying that the message is in a certain format verifying that the message uses a particular font verifying that the message does not exceed a word or character limit and verifying that the message does not include certain terms such as profanity.

In response to determining that the telephone number is valid and that the message conforms to the predefined messaging standard the outbound module causes the transmission of the message to the recipient device at operation . The recipient device is the device assigned to the telephone number included as a parameter of the message transmission request. In some embodiments the outbound module may transmit the message directly to the recipient device e.g. in SMS text message format . In other embodiments the outbound module may forward the message to an intermediary entity such as an SMS aggregator that is responsible for routing the message to the appropriate telephone carrier that ultimately delivers the message in SMS text message format to the recipient device .

At operation the reporting module logs the message transmission request. The logging of the message transmission request may include storing a record of various data associated with the message transmission request in the database e.g. the data layer . For example the reporting module may store a record of the message transmission request including the plurality of requests a record of the telephone carrier associated with the telephone number a record of the geographic region associated with the telephone number and an indication of the successful transmission of the message.

At operation the web layer receives a subscription request from the client application . The subscription request is a request to transmit an opt in message to a particular recipient for the purpose of opting the recipient into a messaging program whereby the recipient may routinely or occasionally receive messages sent on behalf of a client associated with the client application . As such the plurality of parameters comprising the message transmission request may include at least a telephone number. At operation the web layer transmits a response to the client application that includes a confirmation of successful receipt of subscription request.

At operation the web layer authenticates the client associated with the message transmission request e.g. the client corresponding to the client application . In some embodiments the authentication of the client may be based on username and password verification. In some embodiments the authenticating of the client may include verifying that the IP address of the client device corresponds to an IP address associated with the client by way of a record of associated IP addresses stored in the database .

Upon successfully authenticating the client the inbound module validates the subscription request at operation . The validation of the subscription request may include determining that the telephone number included as a parameter of the subscription request is a valid telephone number. The validation of the subscription request may further include verifying a telephone carrier associated with the telephone number. The validation of the subscription request may further include determining that a list identifier included as a parameter of the subscription request is valid. In some instances clients may have multiple messaging lists to which a customer may subscribe. The multiple messaging lists may relate to various different aspects or topics associated with the client.

Upon successfully validating the request the outbound module causes the transmission of an opt in message to the recipient device at operation . The opt in message may request approval from the user of the recipient device e.g. the recipient for receiving future messages from the client. The recipient device is the device to which the telephone number included as a parameter of the message transmission request is assigned. In some embodiments the outbound module may transmit the message directly to the recipient device . In other embodiments the outbound module may forward the message to an intermediary entity such as an SMS aggregator that is responsible for routing the message to the appropriate telephone carrier that ultimately delivers the message to the recipient device .

At operation the web layer receives a confirmation of an opt in from the recipient device . The confirmation may be a reply message in the same format as the opt in message e.g. an SMS message . Upon receiving the confirmation the reporting module logs the subscription request at operation . The logging of the subscription request may include storing a record of various data associated with the subscription request in the database e.g. the data layer . For example the reporting module may store a record of the subscription request including the plurality of requests a record of the telephone carrier associated with the telephone number a record of the geographic region associated with the telephone number and an indication of the opt in by the recipient. At operation the reporting module stores customer attributes in a customer profile maintained in the database .

At operation the inbound module accesses a messaging request e.g. a message transmission request or a subscription request from the inbound queue . At operation the outbound module performs a validation of the telephone number. If the telephone number is not valid the inbound module adds the messaging request to the reporting queue for reporting by the reporting module at operation . If the telephone number is valid e.g. the telephone number has 11 digits the inbound module identifies the telephone carrier associated with telephone number at operation . The identification of the telephone carrier may include accessing a database of telephone numbers with each telephone number included in the database including an indication of a corresponding telephone carrier.

At operation which may be performed only in embodiments in which the messaging request is a transmission request the inbound module validates a message included as a parameter of the messaging request. The validation of the message may include determining that the message conforms to a predefined messaging standard e.g. specifying a certain format a particular font a word or character limit or prohibiting the use of profanity . If the message is successfully validated the inbound module validates the client at operation . The validation of the client may include verifying that the client has been approved to use the messaging platform . If the message is not successfully validated e.g. the message contains profanity the inbound module adds the messaging request to the reporting queue for reporting by the reporting module at operation .

If the client is successfully validated the inbound module adds the messaging request to the outbound queue e.g. for processing by the outbound module at operation . If the client is not successfully validated the inbound module adds the messaging request to the reporting queue for reporting by the reporting module at operation .

At operation the outbound module accesses a messaging request e.g. a message transmission request or a subscription request from the outbound queue . At operation the outbound module transmits a request to an SMS aggregator to have a message e.g. a message generated by the client or an opt in message sent to a telephone number specified in the messaging request. In this example embodiment the SMS aggregator is responsible for the delivery of the message to the recipient device . At operation the outbound queue transmits a status request to the SMS aggregator to request the status of the message transmission. At operation the outbound module receives a reply from the SMS aggregator with the status of the message transmission e.g. transmission pending delivered or error in transmission . At operation the outbound module adds the messaging request to the reporting queue for reporting by the reporting module .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules . In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or in a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes one or more input output I O devices a location component a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device . The I O devices may for example include a keyboard a mouse a keypad a multi touch surface e.g. a touchscreen or track pad a microphone a camera and the like.

The location component may be used for determining a location of the computer system . In some embodiments the location component may correspond to a GPS transceiver that may make use of the network interface device to communicate GPS signals with a GPS satellite. The location component may also be configured to determine a location of the computer system by using an internet protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby mobile communications towers. The location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in main memory or static memory . In some embodiments a mobile location enabled application may work in conjunction with the location component and the network interface device to transmit the location of the computer system to an application server or third party server for the purpose of identifying the location of a user operating the computer system .

In some embodiments the network interface device may correspond to a transceiver and antenna. The transceiver may be configured to both transmit and receive cellular network signals wireless data signals or other types of signals via the antenna depending on the nature of the computer system .

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory the static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

Consistent with some embodiments the instructions may relate to the operations of an operating system OS . Depending on the particular type of the computer system the OS may for example be the iOS operating system the Android operating system a BlackBerry operating system the Microsoft Windows Phone operating system Symbian OS or webOS . Further the instructions may relate to operations performed by applications commonly known as apps consistent with some embodiments. One example of such an application is a mobile browser application that displays content such as a web page or a user interface using a browser.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more data structures or instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions e.g. instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

Furthermore the tangible machine readable medium is non transitory in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However labeling the tangible machine readable medium as non transitory should not be construed to mean that the medium is incapable of movement the medium should be considered as being transportable from one real world location to another. Additionally since the machine readable medium is tangible the medium may be considered to be a machine readable device.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying the instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated references should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present invention. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present invention as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

