---

title: Music playback method, third-party application and device
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a music playback method, a third-party application and a device which are in the field of computer technique. The music playback method includes integrating a background music playback module into a third-party application, receiving a music playing signal in which a playlist identification is included, transmitting the music playing signal to the background music playback module through a predetermined port, acquiring by the background music playback module a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal, and randomly playing the music in the playlist by the background music playback module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329830&OS=09329830&RS=09329830
owner: Tencent Technology (Shenzhen) Company Limited
number: 09329830
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140604
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT CN2012 086122 filed on Dec. 7 2012 which claims priority to Chinese patent application No. 201110403595.1 filed in the SIPO on Dec. 7 2011 with title of MUSIC PLAYBACK METHOD THIRD PARTY APPLICATION AND DEVICE the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The disclosure relates to a music playback method a third party application and a device which are in the field of computer technique.

Music player is one of a plurality of applications which are used most frequently when people daily use a mobile terminal such as a mobile phone a PDA Personal Digital Assistant and a tablet computer.

At present a music player running in the mobile terminal is one that generally operates independently. Such music player has more comprehensive functions such as functions of locally playing music file online playing music file providing a user with classified online music adjusting an audio equalizer downloading and displaying album and lyrics and downloading music file etc. Generally when people are using a music player they are used to run a third party application which is not a music player and provides a visual experience such as entertainment or reading. Such third party application may be a game application or a reading application such as browser micro blog and electronic book reader and so on.

However in the prior art to run a music player and a third party application simultaneously in a mobile terminal it is required that the mobile terminal shall has more large system resources such as computing performance memory capacity and so on otherwise the mobile terminal may crash easily and its power drops rapidly. Specifically when running a music player and a third party application simultaneously besides the playing function of the music player other functions such as the audio equalizer function operating in background the function of downloading and displaying album and lyrics and the function of downloading music file are always consuming a large part of the system resource which is not necessary for the user in listening the music. On the other hand if the user runs the music player and a third party application simultaneously he she shall switch back and forth between two application user interfaces UI which is very inconvenient for the user. Additionally since the processing capacity of the mobile terminal is limited a halting would occur very frequently during the switching between the two interfaces.

To reduce the resource consumption of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application simultaneously and allow users to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces the present disclosure provides a music playback method third party applications and devices. The technical solutions are as follows.

According an aspect of the present disclosure an embodiment of the present disclosure provides a music playback method for a third party application in which a background music playback module is integrated said music playback method comprises receiving a music playing signal in which a playlist identification is included transmitting the music playing signal to the background music playback module through a predetermined port acquiring by the background music playback module a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal and randomly playing the music in the playlist by the background music playback module.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure an embodiment of the present disclosure provides a third party application. The third party application comprises a signal receiving module configured to receive a playing signal in which a playlist identification is included a signal transmitting module configured to transmit the playing signal to a background music playback module via a predetermined port and a background music playback module including a playlist acquiring module which is configured to acquire a playlist based on based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal and a music playing module which is configured to randomly playing the music in the playlist acquired by the playlist acquiring module.

According to still another aspect of the present disclosure an embodiment of the present disclosure provides a music playback method which comprises receiving from a third party application a music playing signal including a playlist identification by means of a predetermined port acquiring a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal and randomly playing the music in the playlist.

According to still another aspect of the present disclosure an embodiment of the present disclosure provides a music playback device. The music playback device comprises a first receiving module configured to receive from a third party application a music playing signal including a playlist identification by means of a predetermined port a first acquiring module configured to acquire a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal and a playing module configured to randomly playing the music in the playlist.

According to the embodiments of the present disclosure on the one hand the resource occupancy of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application is reduced by only remaining core functions such as random playing function in the background music playing module and integrating the background music playing module in the third party application. On the other hand the user can easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces since the mobile terminal receives the relative music playing signal and other signals and then transmits them to the background music playing module.

Hereinafter the embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail in conjunction with the accompanying drawings so as to make the technical solution and advantages of the present disclosure more apparent

Referring to a flowchart of a music playback method according a first embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in the figure. In the embodiment of the present disclosure a background music playback module is integrated in a third party application. The music playback method comprises the following steps.

At Step S the music playing signal is transmitted to the background music playback module through a predetermined port.

At Step S the background music playback module acquires a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal.

In the embodiments of the present disclosure an interface of the third party application can be used to receive the music playing signal.

In summary on the one hand the music playback method provided by the present embodiment reduces the resource occupancy of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application simultaneously by only remaining core functions such as random playing function in the background music playing module and integrating the background music playing module in the third party application. On the other hand the user are allowed to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces by using the third party application to receive the music playing signal and then transmit it to the background music playing module.

Referring to a flowchart of a music playback method according a second embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in the figure. The third party application as described herein mainly refers to the one running in a mobile terminal and mainly providing a visual experience.

Such third party application may be a game or reading application such as browser micro blog and electronic book reader and so on. The music playback method comprises the following steps.

Since in the prior art when running a music player and a third party application simultaneously besides the playing function of the music player other functions such as the audio equalizer function operating in background the function of downloading and displaying album and lyrics and the function of downloading music file are actually consuming a part of the system resource which is not necessary for the user in listening the music it is possible to integrate in advance a lite version background music playing module which only remains core functions such as random playing function in the third party application in order to reduce the resource occupancy of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application simultaneously. The background music playing module may receive control signal such as music playing signal playing pause signal next one signal and so on and randomly play local music and online music by acquiring a playlist.

The third party application in which the background music playing module is integrated may receive the music playing signal in which the playlist identification is included through itself interface. As shown in the third party application may be a reading type application. A micro area in the interface of the third party application has a first music control panel. The micro area is very smaller with respect to the interface of the third party application and subject to a rule that a reading area of the third party application is not disturbed is often provided in the surround or the toolbar of the interface or displayed in a translucent and suspended manner on the main interface. Usually the first music control panel only includes a play pause icon a nest one icon and at least one playlist signal receiving area so that it occupies an area of the interface of the third party application as small as possible. The playlist signal receiving area may be a local music icon or a popular music icon as shown in . The local music icon may correspond to an identification of a list of songs which are stored locally in the mobile terminal itself while the popular music icon may correspond to an identification of a list of songs which are online. When a user wants to listen to music he she can click the local music icon or the popular music icon so that the third party application receives a music playing signal in which a playlist identification corresponding to the playlist signal receiving area is included.

At Step S the music playing signal is transmitted to the background music playback module through a predetermined port.

The third party application may transmit the music playing signal to the background music playing module by means of a predetermined port of the background music playing module after receiving the music playing signal. The predetermined port may be an API Application Programming Interface function interface of the background music playing module. Further the background music playing module may use other predetermined port to receive other control signals such as playing pause signal next one signal and so on.

At Step S the background music playback module acquires a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal.

The background music playback module can acquire a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal after receiving the music playing signal. For example if the playlist identification included in the music playing signal corresponds to a playlist of local music the background music playing module can acquire a playlist of local music from the mobile terminal. For another example if the playlist identification included in the music playing signal corresponds to a playlist of popular music channel the background music playing module can acquire a playlist of popular music channel from the network. At this time the background music playing module acquires a corresponding playlist and follow up music data by establishing a network connection with a predetermined music server. How to establish a network connection belongs to a known technique in the art and will not be described herein.

The background music playback module randomly plays the music in the playlist after receiving the playlist. It should be noted that in general the background music playback module need not have the third party application display the related information of the playlist to the user but have the third party application display the name of song and other information on the micro area in its interface. Therefore the user cannot acquire the related information of the playlist by means of the interface of the third party application. When the user does not want to listen the current song he she may touch the next one icon to have the background music playback module randomly play a next song.

In summary on the one hand the music playback method provided by the second embodiment reduces the resource occupancy of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application simultaneously by only remaining core functions such as random playing function in the background music playing module and integrating the background music playing module in the third party application. On the other hand the music playing method according to the second embodiment allow the user to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces by using the third party application to receive the music playing signal and then transmit it to the background music playing module by means of the predetermined port. It should be noted additionally that each playlist signal receiving area corresponds to playlist identification. The playlist may be a variety of playlists provided by the background music playing module for examples local music playlist my favorite playlist and a playlist in online music playlist of different classes. The playlists can be classified into occident popular music occident new music China mainland popular music China mainland new music classic reminiscent music love song collection popular music channel and so on.

Referring to a flowchart of a music playback method according a third embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in the figure. A background music playback module is integrated in a third party application in advance. The music playback method comprises the following steps.

At Step S receiving a first selected signal applied to a pull down menu of a third party application.

Since the user does not always have to listen to the music simultaneously when using the third party application the micro area in the interface of the second embodiment may not be displayed in advance. When the user uses the third party application he she may issue the first selected signal to the pull down menu of the third party application as shown in . The third party application may receive the first selected signal.

At Step S displaying a menu content of the pull down menu based on the first selected signal in which a music item is included.

The third party application may display the menu content of the pull down menu based on the first selected signal after receiving the first selected signal and the menu content includes the music item as shown in

If the user wants to listen to the music at the same time of using the third party application he she may issue the second selected signal to the music item as shown in . The third party application may receive the second selected signal.

For example as shown in the third party application includes music item QQ music . The user may act on the music item QQ music by its finger the circle as shown in denotes the user s finger to create a second selected signal and then submit it to the third party application.

At step S displaying a first music control panel in a micro area of the interface of the third party application based on the second selected signal.

The third party application may display the first music control panel in the micro area of its interface based on the second selected signal after receiving the second selected signal as shown in . Usually the first music control panel only provides a play pause icon a next one icon and at least one playlist signal receiving area. The playlist signal receiving area may be a local music icon or a popular music channel icon as shown in . The local music icon corresponds to identification of a music list which is locally stored in the mobile terminal and the popular music channel icon corresponds to identification of a certain music list on network.

When a user wants to listen to music he she can click the local music icon or the popular music channel icon so that the third party application receives a music playing signal in which a playlist identification corresponding to the playlist signal receiving area is included.

At step S the music playing signal is transmitted to the background music playback module through a predetermined port.

The third party application may transmit the music playing signal to the background music playing module by means of a predetermined port of the background music playing module after receiving the music playing signal. The predetermined port may be an API Application Programming Interface function interface of the background music playing module. Further the background music playing module may use other predetermined port to receive other control signals such as playing pause signal next one signal and so on.

At step S the background music playback module acquires a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal.

The background music playback module can acquire a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification included in the music playing signal after receiving the music playing signal. For example if the playlist identification included in the music playing signal corresponds to a playlist of local music the background music playing module can acquire a playlist of local music from the mobile terminal. For another example if the playlist identification included in the music playing signal corresponds to a playlist of popular music channel the background music playing module can acquire a playlist of popular music channel from the network. At this time the background music playing module acquires a corresponding playlist and follow up music data generally by establishing a network connection with a predetermined music server. The technical details of establishing a network connection belongs to a known technique in the art and will not be described herein.

The background music playback module randomly plays the music in the playlist after receiving the playlist. It should be noted that in general the background music playback module need not have the third party application display the related information of the playlist to the user but have the third party application display the name of song and other information on the micro area in its interface. Therefore the user cannot acquire the related information of the playlist by means of the interface of the third party application. When the user does not want to listen the current song he she may trigger the next one icon to have the background music playback module randomly play a next song.

In summary on the one hand the music playback method provided by the third embodiment reduces the resource occupancy of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application simultaneously by only remaining core functions such as random playing function in the background music playing module and integrating the background music playing module in the third party application. On the other hand the music playing method according to the third embodiment allow the user to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces by using the third party application to receive the music playing signal and then transmit it to the background music playing module by means of the predetermined port. Further the music playback method according to the third embodiment provides a more humanized interaction mode which improves the user s experience.

Referring to a flowchart of a music playback method according a fourth embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in the figure. A background music playback module is integrated in a third party application in advance. The music playback method comprises the following steps.

At Step S receiving a dragging signal applied to a micro area of the interface of the third party application.

Since the user does not always have to listen to the music simultaneously when using the third party application the micro area in the interface of the second embodiment may display other content in advance. When the user uses the third party application he she may issue the dragging signal to the micro area in the interface of the third party application as shown in . The third party application may receive the dragging signal .

For example referring to the user can perform a dragging action in the micro area with his her finger so as to create the dragging signal and then submit the dragging signal to the third party application.

At step S based on the dragging signal substituting some or all of the currently displayed content in the micro area of the interface of the third party application with a first music control panel to be displayed.

The micro area displays related content of the third party application in an initial state. After receiving the dragging signal the third party application can substitute some or all of the initially displayed content in the micro area with a first music control panel to be displayed based on the dragging signal as shown in . Usually the first music control panel only provides a play pause icon a next one icon and at least one playlist signal receiving area. The playlist signal receiving area may be a local music icon or a popular music channel icon as shown in . The local music icon corresponds to identification of a music list which is locally stored in the mobile terminal and the popular music channel icon corresponds to identification of a certain music list on network.

When a user wants to listen to music he she can click the local music icon or the popular music channel icon so that the third party application receives a music playing signal in which a playlist identification corresponding to the playlist signal receiving area is included.

At step S the music playing signal is transmitted to the background music playback module through a predetermined port.

The third party application may transmit the music playing signal to the background music playing module by means of a predetermined port of the background music playing module after receiving the music playing signal. The predetermined port may be an API Application Programming Interface function interface of the background music playing module. Further the background music playing module may use other predetermined port to receive other control signals such as playing pause signal next one signal and so on.

At step S the background music playback module acquires a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification of the music playing signal.

The background music playback module can acquire a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification included in the music playing signal after receiving the music playing signal. For example if the playlist identification included in the music playing signal corresponds to a playlist of local music the background music playing module can acquire a playlist of local music from the mobile terminal. For another example if the playlist identification included in the music playing signal corresponds to a playlist of popular music channel the background music playing module can acquire a playlist of popular music channel from the network. At this time the background music playing module acquires a corresponding playlist and follow up music data generally by establishing a network connection with a predetermined music server. The technical details of establishing a network connection belongs to a known technique in the art and will not be described herein.

The background music playback module randomly plays the music in the playlist after receiving the playlist. It should be noted that in general the background music playback module need not have the third party application display the related information of the playlist to the user but have the third party application display the name of song and other information on the micro area in its interface. Therefore the user cannot acquire the related information of the playlist by means of the interface of the third party application. When the user does not want to listen the current song he she may trigger the next one icon to have the background music playback module randomly play a next song.

In summary on the one hand the music playback method provided by the fourth embodiment reduces the resource occupancy of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application simultaneously by only remaining core functions such as random playing function in the background music playing module and integrating the background music playing module in the third party application. On the other hand the music playing method according to the fourth embodiment allow the user to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces by using the third party application to receive the music playing signal and then transmit it to the background music playing module by means of the predetermined port. Further the music playback method according to the fourth embodiment provides a more humanized interaction mode which improves the user s experience.

Referring to a flowchart of a music playback method according a fifth embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in the figure. The music playback method according the fifth embodiment may be used in combination with the music playback methods as described with respect to the third embodiment and the fourth embodiment. The music playback method comprises the following steps.

At step S receiving a panel switching signal applied to the micro area of the interface of the third party application. The micro area includes a first music control panel or a second music control panel each of which includes a switching signal receiving area.

In order to make the area occupied in the interface of the third party application by the micro area associated with the control area of playing music smaller two or more music control panels can be preset in advance. For example the music panel may include a first music control panel and a second music control panel . The first music control panel includes at least one playlist signal receiving area and a switching signal receiving area . In one particular embodiment the first music control panel may include four playlist signal receiving areas and a switching signal receiving area as shown in . The second music control panel may include a play pause icon a nest one icon and a switching signal receiving area as shown in . If at initial state the music control panel displays the second music control panel the user can issue a panel switching signal to the switching signal receiving area when he she wants to select a channel. The third party application can receives the panel switching signal.

At step S the music control panel currently displayed in the micro area of the interface of the third party application will be switched into another music control panel after the third party application receives the panel switching signal.

The third party application may switch the second music control panel currently displayed in the micro area of the interface into the first music control panel after receiving the panel switching signal. In a similar way when the user wants to issue other control signal he she can issue a panel switching signal to the switching signal receiving area in the first music control panel so as to switch the first music control panel into the second music control panel .

If the music playback method according to the fifth embodiment is used in combination with the music playback method according to previous embodiments the micro area of the interface of the third party application may display any one of the first music control panel and the second music control panel when it firstly displays the music control panel and then switch it display based on the user requirements. It is conceived for the person in the art that the number of the music control panels is not limited to two but more than two.

In summary the music playback method according to the fifth embodiment further reduces the resource occupancy of the micro area and may be used in combination with the music playback method according to previous embodiments. It shall be noted additionally that since the background music playing modules of the music playback methods according to embodiments above have a function of playing online music if these music playback methods are applied to a third party application such as social application micro blog application or webpage browser and content displayed in these third party applications includes a music link which is searched or shared by other user those music playback methods may further comprises receiving a third selected signal applied to the music link in the interface of the third party application transmitting the music link to a background music playing module through a predetermined port after receiving the third selected signal acquiring music data by the background music playing module based on the music link and playing the music by the background music playing module based on the acquired music data. For example in the micro blog client to which the music playback method is applied if user A notices a music link of XX symphony in the micro blog content which is shared by user B user A can click the music link so that the micro blog client receives the click signal and automatically triggers the background music playing module to play the song corresponding to the music link.

Referring to which shows structural block diagram of a third party application according a sixth embodiment of the present disclosure the third party application integrates with a background music playing module. The third party application comprises an interface display unit a signal receiving module a signal transmitting module and a background music playing module including a playlist acquiring module and a music playing module .

The interface display unit is configured to display an interactive interface of the third party application.

The signal receiving module is configured to receive a variety of signals triggered through the interactive interface of the third party application. For example in one embodiment the signal receiving module may include a music playing signal receiving unit . The music playing signal receiving unit is configured to receive a music playing signal applied to a micro area in the interface of the third party application which is displayed by the interface display unit . The micro area in the interface of the third party application which is displayed by the interface display unit contains a first music control panel including at least one playlist signal receiving areas each of which corresponds to playlist identification.

The signal transmitting module may transmit a music playing signal to a background playing module through a predetermined port.

The playlist acquiring module may acquire a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification in the music playing signal transmitted from the signal transmitting module .

The music playing module may randomly play the music in the playlist acquired by the playlist acquiring module . Specifically the music playing module includes an online music acquiring unit and a music playing unit . The online music acquiring unit may acquire online music data and the music playing unit may play the music based on the music data. The music data may be local music data or online music data acquired by the online music acquiring unit .

In another embodiment the signal receiving module further includes a panel switching signal receiving unit . The panel switching signal receiving unit is configured to receive a panel switching signal applied to a micro area in the interface of the third party application which is displayed by the interface display unit . The micro area in the interface of the third party application which is displayed by the interface display unit contains a first music control panel and a second music control panel. Each of the first music control panel and the second music control panel includes a panel switching signal receiving area. The interface display unit in the embodiment is further configured to switch the music control panel currently displayed in the micro area of the interface of the third party application into another music control panel.

In a still another embodiment the signal receiving module further includes a first selected signal receiving unit and a second selected signal receiving unit . The first selected signal receiving unit is configured to receive a first selected signal applied to a pull down menu of the third party application which is displayed by the interface display unit . Then the interface display unit in the embodiment is further configured to display the menu content of pull down menu based on the first selected signal and the menu content contains music items. The second selected signal receiving unit is configured to receive a second selected signal applied to the music items. The interface display unit is further configured to display the first music control panel or the second music control panel in the micro area of the interface of the third party application based on the second selected signal.

In a still another embodiment the signal receiving module further includes a dragging signal receiving unit . The dragging signal receiving unit is configured to receive a dragging signal applied to the micro area of the interface of the third party application which is displayed by the interface display unit . The interface display unit is further configured to based on the dragging signal substitute some or all of the currently displayed content in the micro area of the interface of the third party application with a first music control panel or a second music control panel to be displayed.

In a still another embodiment the signal receiving module further includes a third selected signal receiving unit . The third selected signal receiving unit is configured to receive a third selected signal applied to a music link in the interface of the third party application which is displayed by the interface display unit . The signal transmitting module is further configured to transmit the music link to the online music acquiring unit through a predetermined port after the third selected signal receiving unit receives the third selected signal. The online music acquiring unit is further configured to acquire music data based on the music link transmitted from the signal transmitting module . The music playing unit is configured to play the music based on the music data acquired by the online music acquiring unit .

In summary on the one hand the third party application according to the sixth embodiment reduces the resource occupancy of the mobile terminal in running a music player and a third party application simultaneously by only remaining core functions such as random playing function in the background music playing module and integrating the background music playing module in the third party application. On the other hand the third party application according to the sixth embodiment allows the user to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces by using the third party application to receive the music playing signal and other control signals and then transmit them to the background music playing module.

Referring to which shows a flowchart of a music playback method according a seventh embodiment of the present disclosure the music playback method comprises receiving from a third party application a music playing signal including playlist identification by means of a predetermined port step S acquiring a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification included in the music playing signal step S and randomly playing the music in the playlist step S .

The music playback method further comprises receiving a music link transmitted from the third party application via a predetermined port acquiring music data based on the music link and playing the music based on the acquired music data.

The present embodiment allows the user to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces by using the predetermined port to receive the music playing signal from the third party application acquiring a corresponding playlist based on the music playing signal and then randomly playing the music in the playlist.

Referring to which shows a structural block diagram of a music playback device according an eighth embodiment of the present disclosure the music playback device comprises a first receiving module configured to receive from a third party application a music playing signal including playlist identification by means of a predetermined port a first acquiring module configured to acquire a corresponding playlist based on the playlist identification included in the music playing signal and a first playing module configured to randomly play the music in the playlist.

The music playback device further comprises a second receiving module configured to receive a music link transmitted from the third party application via a predetermined port a second acquiring module configured to acquire music data based on the music link and a second playing module configured to play the music based on the acquired music data.

The present embodiment allows the user to easily listen to music and operate third party applications simultaneously without switching between the two interfaces by using the predetermined port to receive the music playing signal from the third party application acquiring a corresponding playlist based on the music playing signal and then randomly playing the music in the playlist.

It should be noted that the third party application in the sixth embodiment is only exemplified in a plurality of function modules. In fact as required the above functions may be implemented by different module. That is the internal structure of the device is divided into different function module to implement some or all of the function mentioned above. In addition the third party application according to the embodiment above has the same concept as those of previous method embodiments and its specific implementing process may refer to the method embodiments and will be omitted herein.

It shall be understood by the person skilled in the art that some or all steps of the above embodiments may be implemented by hardware or a computer program instructing relevant hardware. Said program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium and said storage medium would include a read only memory ROM a magnetic disk and a CD compact disc and so on.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented only for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. All the modifications equivalent substitutions and improvements that are made without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments fall in the scope of the present application.

