---

title: Automatic actions based on contextual replies
abstract: A computing device includes at least one processor and at least one module, operable by the at least one processor to receive an communication, determine, based at least in part on the communication, one or more candidate responses to the communication, and receive an indication of user input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses. The at least one module may be further operable by the at least one processor, responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response, to send the candidate response, determine, based at least in part on at least one of the candidate response and the communication, an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response, and execute the operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09213941&OS=09213941&RS=09213941
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09213941
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140422
---
Many computing devices enable a user to respond to received communications sent by users of other computing devices. Some such computing devices provide one or more stock responses stored by the computing device that a user may choose from when composing a response to the received communication. In response to receiving an indication of user input that selects a particular stock response the computing device may send the selected stock response from the recipient s computing device to the computing device of a different user that sent the received communication.

In one example a method includes receiving by a computing device a communication determining based at least in part on the communication one or more candidate responses to the communication and receiving by the computing device an indication of user input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses. The method may further include responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response sending by the computing device the candidate response determining based at least in part on at least one of the candidate response and the communication an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response and executing by the computing device the operation.

In another example a computing device includes at least one processor and at least one module operable by the at least one processor to receive a communication determine based at least in part on the communication one or more candidate responses to the communication and receive an indication of user input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses. The at least one module may be further operable by the at least one processor responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response to send the candidate response determine based at least in part on at least one of the candidate response and the communication an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response and execute the operation.

In another example a computer readable storage medium is encoded with instructions that when executed cause at least one processor to receive a communication determine based at least in part on the communication one or more candidate responses to the communication and receive an indication of user input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses. The computer readable storage medium may be further encoded with instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response to send the candidate response determine based at least in part on at least one of the candidate response and the communication an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response and execute the operation.

The details of one or more examples are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In general techniques of this disclosure are directed to providing candidate responses in reply to a received communication and automatically performing one or more operations that are contextually related to at least one selected candidate response. That is according to techniques of the present disclosure a computing device may output one or more candidate responses that are relevant to a received communication and responsive to receiving a selection of a particular candidate response perform one or more operations or actions related to the selected candidate response. As an example a computing device may not only send a particular candidate response upon selection of that candidate response by a user but also create a new calendar event for a meeting associated with the received communication and or the particular candidate response.

In this way computing devices implementing techniques of this disclosure may reduce or eliminate the need for the user to provide additional input to cause the computing device to perform the relevant operations. Such functionality may be advantageous when it is difficult or undesirable for a user to manually provide input to a computing device.

Computing device as shown in the example of includes user interface UI device . UI device of computing device may be configured to function as an input device and or an output device for computing device . UI device may be implemented using various technologies. For instance UI device may be configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio and or video feedback. Examples of input devices include a presence sensitive display a presence sensitive or touch sensitive input device a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive display includes a touch sensitive or presence sensitive input screen such as a resistive touchscreen a surface acoustic wave touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen a projective capacitance touchscreen a pressure sensitive screen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or another presence sensitive technology. That is UI device of computing device may include a presence sensitive device that may receive tactile input from a user of computing device . UI device may receive indications of the tactile input by detecting one or more gestures from the user e.g. when the user touches or points to one or more locations of UI device with a finger or a stylus pen .

UI device may additionally or alternatively be configured to function as an output device by providing output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli. Examples of output devices include a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any of one or more display devices such as a liquid crystal display LCD dot matrix display light emitting diode LED display organic light emitting diode OLED display e ink or similar monochrome or color display capable of outputting visible information to a user of computing device . Additional examples of an output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or other device that can generate intelligible output to a user. For instance UI device may present output to a user of computing device as a graphical user interface that may be associated with functionality provided by computing device . In this way UI device may present various user interfaces of applications executing at or accessible by computing device e.g. an electronic message application an Internet browser application etc. . A user of computing device may interact with a respective user interface of an application to cause computing device to perform operations relating to a function.

In some examples UI device of computing device may detect two dimensional and or three dimensional gestures as input from a user of computing device . For instance a sensor of UI device may detect the user s movement e.g. moving a hand an arm a pen a stylus etc. within a threshold distance of the sensor of UI device . UI device may determine a two or three dimensional vector representation of the movement and correlate the vector representation to a gesture input e.g. a hand wave a pinch a clap a pen stroke etc. that has multiple dimensions. In other words UI device may in some examples detect a multi dimension gesture without requiring the user to gesture at or near a screen or surface at which UI device outputs information for display. Instead UI device may detect a multi dimensional gesture performed at or near a sensor which may or may not be located near the screen or surface at which UI device outputs information for display.

In the example of computing device includes user interface UI module device location module application modules A N collectively application modules and communication action module . Modules and or may perform one or more operations described herein using hardware software firmware or a mixture thereof residing within and or executing at computing device . Computing device may execute modules and or with one processor or with multiple processors. In some examples computing device may execute modules and or as a virtual machine executing on underlying hardware. Modules and or may execute as one or more services of an operating system or computing platform or may execute as one or more executable programs at an application layer of a computing platform.

UI module as shown in the example of may be operable by computing device to perform one or more functions such as receive input and send indications of such input to other components associated with computing device such as modules and or . UI module may also receive data from components associated with computing device such as modules and or . Using the data received UI module may cause other components associated with computing device such as UI device to provide output based on the received data. For instance UI module may receive data from one of application modules to display a GUI.

Application modules as shown in the example of may include functionality to perform any variety of operations on computing device . For instance application modules may include a word processor an email application a web browser a multimedia player a calendar application an operating system a distributed computing application a graphic design application a video editing application a web development application or any other application. In some examples one or more of application modules may be operable to receive communications from other devices such as email messages calendar alerts or meeting requests or other communications. For instance one of application modules e.g. application module A may be a text messaging e.g. SMS MMS application. Application module A may include functionality to compose and send communications receive communications respond to received communications and other functions.

In the example of communication action module may be operable to determine candidate responses to received communications and determine one or more operations that are contextually related to a response communication in accordance with the techniques described herein. That is communication action module may include functionality to provide one or more relevant messages that a user may select to cause computing device to send the message as a response to a received communication. Furthermore communication action module may include functionality to execute an operation that is relevant based at least in part on the received communication and or a communication sent in response to the received communication to the context of the correspondence. Relevance e.g. of an operation or of a response message generally may be an indication of semantic similarity contextual similarity or any other type of similarity. Relevance in some examples may be represented by a probability value or score that indicates a level of similarity between two objects or a level of similarity between two groups of objects e.g. the number of objects that exist in both groups the number of objects in one group that exist in the other group the percentage of objects that exist in both groups or other value .

Communication action module may determine messages a user can select in response to a received communication and in addition to sending a selected response communication action module may cause computing device to perform an operation related to the sent response. Further details and example operations of communication action module are described with respect to the following examples.

Computing device may in the example of receive a communication. A received communication may include information e.g. generated based on input provided by a user of another device . Examples of information that may be included in a received communication include text e.g. letters words numbers punctuation etc. emoji images or icons video audio or other information. The received communication may be structured or formatted according to one or more protocols. For instance a received communication may be an SMS message. The SMS message may include the textual information We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. 

In the example of responsive to receiving a communication computing device may output an indication of the received communication for display. In general an indication of a received communication may be any visual representation of the communication such as a notification or other visual object output for display as part of a GUI. Computing device may provide the message to one or more of application modules that are specified to handle SMS messages such as application module A. Application module A may receive the SMS message and may cause one or more other components of computing device to output an indication of the message e.g. for display to a user of computing device . That is responsive to receiving the SMS message application module A may send data to UI module to cause UI device to display GUI . As shown in the example of GUI includes an indication of the information included in the SMS message e.g. text We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant and a user selectable element to reply to the message. In some examples an application module may cause additional or other information to be output for display such as a time at which the message was received.

Computing device may in the example of receive an indication of input that instructs computing device to enable a user to compose and or select a response to the received communication. For instance a user of computing device may perform input at UI device . UI device may detect input and send an indication of the input to UI module . UI module may provide data to application module A based on the received indication and application module A may determine that input corresponds to a selection of element .

In the example of computing device may determine one or more candidate responses to the received communication based at least in part on the received communication. Responsive to receiving data indicating a user s selection to respond to the SMS message e.g. an indication of input application module A may communicate with communication action module to obtain at least one candidate response. A candidate response may be a message that a user may select as a response to a received communication. For instance in the example of each candidate response determined by communication action module may be a message that computing device may send based on a user s selection in order to respond to the SMS message We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. 

In order to obtain candidate responses application module A may request candidate responses from communication action module . In some examples a request for candidate responses to a received communication may include at least a portion of the information included in the received communication. In some examples a request may include additional or other information such as communication metadata location information user information other communications e.g. other messages in the thread or chain of communications between the user of computing device and the sender of the received communication or other information about the received communication about the computing device or about a user of the computing device. In some examples application modules may only generate a request and or obtain personal data e.g. information included in the received communication and or other information if a user of computing device provides explicit permission.

Communication action module may receive a request from application A and determine candidate responses. In some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses based at least in part on the subject matter of the received communication. That is communication action module may in some examples determine one or more subjects included in the received communication and use that information to predict candidate responses. For instance communication action module may perform one or more text analysis and or natural language processing techniques e.g. clustering noun phrase extraction etc. on the received communication to determine the subject or subjects of the communication e.g. semantic elements . A subject in general may be a person place item or object etc. Examples of a semantic element may include a particular store or restaurant a chain of stores or chain of restaurants a geographical location e.g. a city a state a country etc. a person an object e.g. a hockey stick a watch a television a dog etc. a concept e.g. pregnancy milkshakes existentialism etc. any combination or type thereof or any other focus of information. In some examples a collection of semantic elements that are included in a communication may represent a semantic meaning of the communication. That is a semantic meaning may in some examples be based on the subject or subjects e.g. items places concepts etc. included in the communication.

In some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses by using one or more lookup tables. For instance communication action module may determine whether the received communication includes one or more specific words and or punctuation mark combinations from the lookup table such as a question word or a question mark character. If the received communication includes the specific combination of words and or punctuation marks communication action module may provide the associated candidate responses from the lookup table. If the input to the lookup table is the word are and a question mark character for instance the lookup table may provide candidate responses such as Yes No etc. In other words while described in some examples as predicting candidate responses communication action module may determine candidate responses is any number of ways such as providing stored candidate responses using a lookup table predicting candidate responses based on text analysis or other ways. Further details of such various techniques are described in .

In some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses based additionally or alternatively on previously selected responses. That is to determine candidate responses communication action module may in some examples use information that indicates previously received communications or subjects thereof and the communications that have been selected as responses to the previously received communications. By analyzing the received communications and the corresponding selected responses communication action module may determine likely replies to common messages and or messages having common subjects. For instance communication action module may receive a request including the information Are you coming Communication action module may analyze the text to determine that the received communication is a request for the status of the recipient. Based on the subject of the text communication action module may determine that the most common replies to similar messages are I ll be right there yes and no. 

In some examples the information included in a received communication and or the candidate responses need not be proper language. For instance communication action module may receive a request to determine candidate responses that includes the text 

In some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses based on communications previously received by computing device and corresponding responses previously selected by the user of computing device . That is in some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses based on communication data associated with the user of computing device . In some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses based on previously received communications and corresponding responses that are associated with more users. For instance communication action module may cause computing device to communicate with another computing device e.g. a server system to obtain and and or maintain information including communication data from multiple computing devices. That is in some examples computing device may determine candidate responses based on aggregate communication data associated with a plurality of users e.g. the user of computing device and or other users . In such examples information about a user s received communications and or selected response communications may only be used if that user explicitly provides permission e.g. via his or her respective computing device . Furthermore any data may be anonymized before transmittal and or use. That is information that could identify or categorize a user may be stripped or generalized before providing the communications data e.g. to the server system .

In some examples candidate responses may be responses that have been previously selected by a user at least at a threshold frequency. That is a candidate response may in some examples represent a response that was previously provided as a candidate response a number of times and was selected by users a sufficient number of those times to exceed a threshold frequency e.g. at least 10 at least 20 etc. of selection. In other examples candidate responses may be based additionally or instead on manual review by developers or administrators e.g. of the server system . Manual review may be beneficial for example to ensure candidate responses use appropriate language and or are accurate.

In some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses based additionally or alternatively on contextual information about computing device and or a user of computing device e.g. information that defines a context of the computing device . Contextual information in general may include any information about the computing device an environment of the computing device and or about a user of the computing device.

In some examples items of contextual information may be collections of data e.g. a text data structure a numeric data structure or other data structure that represents a location of the computing device e.g. a GPS location information indicating a time as determined by the computing device information indicating one or more applications installed at the computing device information indicating one or more applications currently executing at the computing device information indicating one or more networks e.g. wireless networks available to the computing device data that represents one or more other computing devices in proximity to the computing device e.g. within 10 feet within 100 feet or other distance data that represents an operating mode e.g. silent mode airplane mode driving mode standby mode low battery mode or any other mode of operation of the computing device data obtained from one or more sensors of the computing device e.g. temperature data ambient noise level data light level data acceleration movement data image video data and other data or any other data about the status or current state of the computing device.

In some examples an item of contextual information may additionally or alternatively be information about a user of the computing device such as a name of the user a user identification UID of the user information from one or more social media network service accounts associated with the user information from one or more calendars or scheduling applications associated with the user information indicating one or more social or professional relationships of the user e.g. user contacts or any other information about the user.

In some examples communication action module may receive contextual information e.g. one or more items of contextual information with a request for candidate responses. For instance communication module may receive a request from one of application modules that includes an indication of a particular communication as well as one or more items of contextual information each indicating a location of computing device . Communication module may provide candidate responses based on the indication of the particular communication as well as on the locations.

In some examples communication action module may additionally or alternatively obtain contextual information from other sources. For instance communication module may receive explicit permission from a user e.g. the user of computing device to access communications information social media network service account information or other information pertaining to the user. That is communication action module may obtain contextual information about computing device information about the user of computing device and or other information for use in determining candidate responses. In some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses based on obtained contextual information by determining selected responses that correspond to a similar context.

In the example of communication action module may determine one or more candidate responses to the SMS message We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant and send at least an indication of the candidate responses to application module A. Application module A may receive the indication of the determined candidate responses and send data to UI module to cause UI device to display at least one of the candidate responses. For instance application module A may send data to cause UI device to output GUI .

GUI as shown in the example of includes response options A C collectively response options . Response options may each represent a candidate response received from communication action module . That is responsive to receiving a request for candidate responses to the SMS message We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant communication action module may determine three candidate responses On my way I can t make it and The one on Washington St corresponding to response options A B and C respectively.

While each representing a candidate response received from communication action module in the example of one or more of response options may in other examples represent other response options such as responses provided by application module A. In some examples an application module may modify one or more received candidate responses based on various types of information and one or more of response options may represent a modified candidate response. In any case response options of GUI may enable the user of computing device to select a candidate response to cause computing device to send in response to the received SMS message. In some examples GUI may include a manual entry option. A manual entry option may enable the user of computing device to input e.g. using voice input touch input or other input a custom response. A custom response may be used when for example the responses indicated by one of response options are incorrect or inaccurate.

In the example of computing device may receive an indication of user input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses. An indication of user input generally may be data representing input provided by a user at one or more input devices such as touch or haptic input voice input or other audio input or any other form of input. For instance the user of computing device may provide input at UI device which may include a tap gesture at or near the location of UI device . UI device may detect input and send an indication of the input to UI module . UI module may provide data to application module A based on the received indication and application module A may determine that input corresponds to a selection of response option A.

Responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response computing device may in the example of send the candidate response. That is selecting one of response options or inputting a custom response may cause application module A to respond to the received communication by sending the selected response to one or more other computing devices which may include a computing device of the recipient for the message. For instance responsive to receiving an indication of input that selects response option A application module A may send the candidate response corresponding to response option A e.g. On my way . In some examples the selected response may be sent directly to the computing device from which the SMS message was received. In some examples the selected response may be sent to additional or other computing devices such as one or more devices that together represent a network to which computing device is connected e.g. a cellular or wireless network . That is computing device may send the selected response to the computing device from which the SMS message was received by sending the response to network devices or other devices situated along a route between the two computing devices. In some examples the selected response may additionally or alternatively be sent to other devices such as a server system or a cloud computing environment for subsequent use in providing improved candidate responses.

In the example of responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response computing device may determine based at least in part on at least one of the candidate response and the received communication an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response. In other words computing device determines the operation based at least in part on the candidate response based at least in part on the received communication or based at least in part on both the candidate response and the received communication. An operation contextually related to the candidate response may be executable by a computing device e.g. computing device or other computing device to perform an action in addition to generating displaying and or sending a response to the received communication. That is operations contextually related to a response as defined herein may not include one or more of determining candidate responses to a received communication outputting the candidate responses e.g. for display to a user or sending a response to a received communication. Rather an operation that is contextual related to a response may represent an operation that a user might otherwise manually cause a computing device to perform if he or she received the communication and sent the corresponding response. For instance operations that are contextually related to a response may include operations that cause a computing device to provide directions to a location indicated in the received communication and or the response operations that cause the computing device to create modify or delete a calendar item corresponding to an event in the received communication or response and operations that cause the computing device to provide other information about a subject or subjects e.g. a location a person an item an event etc. of the received communication and or the response. Further examples of operations that are contextually related to a response may include operations that cause a computing device to initiate a phone call create a reservation for a restaurant a rental car an airline flight or hotel operations that cause the computing device to execute a search for items on one or more networks e.g. the Internet or websites e.g. auction websites social network service websites etc. .

Application module A may receive an indication of input to select response option A and may send an indication of the corresponding candidate response to communication action module . Responsive to receiving an indication of a selected response communication action module may in some examples determine one or more subjects of the selected response. For instance communication action module may perform text analysis and or natural language processing techniques on the selected response to determine the subject or subjects of the communication and or determine other factors. That is in some examples communication action module may determine the subject matter of both the received communication and the response to the received communication in order to determine an operation contextually related to the response.

In some examples communication action module may additionally or alternatively determine and or update the context of computing device in response to receiving the indication of the selected response. For instance communication action module may determine whether any contextual information about computing device and or the user of computing device e.g. the location of computing device the social network service account of the user etc. has changed and if any information has changed communication action module may update the contextual information accordingly.

In some examples communication action module may determine an operation that is contextually related to a selected candidate response by predicting one or more operations that a user would likely cause a computing device to perform given one or more of the determined subject or subjects of the received communication the determined subject or subjects of the selected candidate response and or the obtained contextual information. For instance communication action module may determine operations that were previously performed by computing device and or other computing devices in contexts that were similar to a presently determined context of the computing device . That is communication action module may determine contextually related operations based on previous operations performed by computing devices in a similar context after receiving a similar communication and receiving input from a user to cause the computing device to generate and or send a similar response.

In other examples communication action module may determine an operation that is contextually related to a selected candidate response in various other ways. For instance communication action module may employ a lookup table that provides associations between information in the communications and contextually related operations. That is communication action module may search the received communication and or the selected candidate response for one or more words and or one or more punctuation marks. If the communications include words punctuation marks or a combination thereof that exist in the lookup table communication action module may determine the corresponding operation. As one example if the received communication and or the selected candidate response include the word weather communication action module may determine an operation to output weather information for display e.g. at UI device . In other words while described in some examples as predicting operations that are contextually related to a selected candidate response communication action module may determine contextually related operations in any number of ways such as obtaining stored operations using a lookup table predicting contextually related operations based on text analysis or other ways.

Communication action module may in the example of receive the indication of the selected response On my way and determine an operation that is related to the selected response. For instance communication action module may predict an operation that the user of computing device may cause computing device to perform responsive to the user receiving the SMS message We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant and selecting the response On my way. That is communication action module may determine a subject or subjects of the selected response and based on the subject s of the selected response the subject s of the received communication and or the contextual information communication action module may determine that the user of computing device is likely going to travel to a location indicated in the received communication. Furthermore communication action module may determine that it is unlikely that the user has travelled to the location recently and thus it is likely that the user will provide input to cause computing device to provide directions to the location. Therefore communication action module may determine an operation to provide directions to the location.

In some examples communication action module may determine what application modules are installed at computing device e.g. as part of determining the operation that is contextually related to the selected response or at some earlier point in time that is not based on determining the operation . That is communication action module may in some examples determine what application modules are available at computing device to perform determined operations. In some examples communication action module may determine more likely operations that can be performed by application modules and determine less likely operations e.g. operations that cannot be performed by application modules . For instance if a maps application is not included in application modules communication action module may in some examples determine a contextually related operation to cause a maps application to provide directions to be less likely. In some examples communication action module may determine operations without regard to what application modules are installed at computing device . In some examples contextually related operations determined by communication action module may be or may include operations to obtain relevant applications e.g. from an application store or other source . For instance if communication action module determines that an operation to create a reservation at a restaurant is more likely but application modules does not include any application configured to create such reservations communication action module may also determine that an operation to obtain e.g. after obtaining permission from the user an application module capable of creating the reservation is more likely.

In the example of computing device may execute the operation. For instance communication action module may cause computing device to perform the determined operation by executing a call of an application programming interface API of one of application modules . In the example of communication action module may determine an operation to provide directions to Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. Communication action module may use an API to call one of application modules e.g. application module B to provide directions e.g. in a turn by turn mode or otherwise to the Yotteru Sushi Restaurant location. That is in the example of communication action module may perform an API call to application module B to cause computing device to provide directions to Yotteru Sushi Restaurant.

In some examples computing device may perform contextually related operations without outputting information for display and or without any further user interaction. For instance in some examples a calendar application of computing device may perform a contextually related operation to create a calendar item without indicating to the user that the operation is being performed without prompting the user to cancel or allow the operation and or without displaying any information about the created item to the user.

In some examples computing device may display additional information and or prompt the user for acceptance as part of performing the operation or prior to performing the operation. For instance in the example of application module B may send data to UI module to cause UI device to output GUI . As shown in the example of GUI may indicate to the user of computing device that computing device is performing or about to perform the contextually related operation. GUI includes user selectable elements that may enable the user to modify or cancel the operation such as elements A and B. In some examples if computing device does not receive an indication of input that selects one of elements A or B within a threshold amount of time e.g. 1 second 2 seconds or other duration computing device e.g. application module B may perform the operation. That is application module B may provide directions to Yotteru Sushi Restaurant e.g. by causing UI device to output a map turn by turn text directions etc. .

In some examples GUI may additionally or alternatively provide a user selectable element to affirmatively cause computing device to perform the operation. That is in some examples computing device may provide a confirmation dialogue which the user may accept or reject. Such a confirmation dialogue may be useful in instances where the operation was determined to be only slightly contextually related to the correspondence or where the operation may have a large impact on the user e.g. removing a scheduled calendar event placing a phone call purchasing an application or other product etc. .

By providing candidate responses and automatically performing an operation contextually related to a received communication and a selected response to the received communication techniques of the present disclosure may reduce the amount of time required for a user of computing device to input a response to a received communication and or to perform other operations based on the correspondence. For instance wearable computing devices such as watches or other devices may be able to display candidate responses to a user that are based on a received communication and automatically perform contextually related operations thereby enabling the user to quickly tap or otherwise select one of the candidate responses instead of having to use voice recognition or other means to input a response and cause the device to perform related operations.

While displayed as part of a single device in the example of components of computing device may in some examples be located within and or part of different devices. For instance in some examples some or all of the functionality of communication action module may be located at a server system or other computing device e.g. accessible by computing device via a network . That is in some examples techniques of the present disclosure may be performed and utilized by a single computing device while in other examples the techniques may be performed and or utilized at a remote computing system such as a distributed or cloud computing system. In some such examples computing device may receive a communication and determine candidate responses by providing at least a portion of the received communication to a remote device e.g. a server system and receiving a response that includes the candidate responses. Responsive to receiving a selection of one of the candidate responses computing device may determine an operation contextually related to the candidate response by sending at least an indication of the selected candidate response to a remote device and receiving a response that includes instructions that are executable to perform the operation.

In some examples computing device may represent a wearable computing device. A wearable computing device may be any computing device wearable or otherwise attachable to a user such as a smartwatch a head mounted computing device e.g. a computing device incorporated into glasses a hat earphones a contact lens or other like items implantable devices or any other device a user may attach to his or her person. Some wearable computing devices such as a smartwatch may include one or more input devices to receive various types of input from a user one or more output devices to provide audio visual tactile or other output to the user one or more network interfaces to communicate with other computing devices one or more sensors to obtain information and or other components.

In some examples a wearable device may communicate with a mobile device e.g. a smartphone or other device to perform some operations. For instance in some examples part of the techniques of the present disclosure may be performed by a smartwatch while part may be performed by one or more other computing devices e.g. a smartphone that is wirelessly linked with the smartwatch a server device with which the smartphone may communicate or other devices . In other words while described herein as being performed by one or more components of computing device some of the components configurable to determine candidate responses and or contextually related operations may be distributed among a plurality of computing devices in accordance with the techniques described herein.

As shown in the example of computing device includes user interface UI device one or more processors one or more input devices one or more output devices one or more communications units one or more sensors and one or more storage devices . Storage devices further include user interface UI module suggestion module application modules and communication action module . Communication action module in the example of includes response suggestion module action prediction module and context module .

Each of components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications. In the example of components and may be coupled by one or more communications channels COMM. CHANNELS . In some examples communications channels may include a system bus network connection inter process communication data structure or any other channel for communicating data. Modules and may also communicate information with one another as well as with other components in computing device .

In the example of one or more input devices may be operable to receive input. Examples of input are tactile audio and video input. Input devices in one example include a presence sensitive or touch sensitive display a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system a video camera a microphone or other audio sensor or any other type of device for detecting input from a human or machine.

One or more output devices may be operable in the example of to generate output. Examples of output are tactile audio and video output. Output devices of computing device in some examples include a presence sensitive display sound card video graphics adapter card speaker cathode ray tube CRT monitor liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device for generating output to a human or machine.

In some examples UI device may include functionality of input devices and or output devices . In the example of for instance UI device may be or may include a presence sensitive input device. In some examples a presence sensitive input device may detect an object at and or near the presence sensitive input device. As one example range a presence sensitive input device may detect an object such as a finger or stylus that is within two inches or less of the presence sensitive input device. In another example range a presence sensitive input device may detect an object six inches or less from the presence sensitive input device and other ranges are also possible. The presence sensitive input device may determine a location e.g. an x y coordinate of the presence sensitive input device at which the object was detected. The presence sensitive input device may determine the location selected by the input device using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques. In some examples presence sensitive input device provides output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli as described with respect to output devices and may be referred to as a presence sensitive display.

While illustrated as an internal component of computing device UI device may also represent an external component that shares a data path with computing device for transmitting and or receiving input and output. That is in some examples UI device may represent a built in component of computing device located within and physically connected to the external packaging of computing device e.g. a screen on a mobile phone or wearable computing device . In some examples UI device may represent an external component of computing device located outside and physically separated from the packaging of computing device e.g. a monitor a projector or other display device that shares a wired and or wireless data path with computing device .

In the example of one or more communication units may be operable to communicate with external devices via one or more networks by transmitting and or receiving network signals on the one or more networks. For example computing device may use communication units to transmit and or receive radio signals on a radio network such as a cellular radio network. Likewise communication units may transmit and or receive satellite signals on a satellite network such as a GPS network. Examples of communication unit include a network interface card e.g. such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and or receive information. Other examples of communication units may include Near Field Communications NFC units Bluetooth radios short wave radios cellular data radios wireless network e.g. Wi Fi radios as well as universal serial bus USB controllers.

One or more sensors may in the example of be operable to generate data for use by components of computing device . Sensors may include any device or component capable of obtaining data about computing device data about an environment in which computing device is situated data about a user of computing device or other data. That is any of sensors may be hardware firmware software or a combination thereof for obtaining information. Examples of sensors may include a GPS sensor or GPS radio a position sensor an accelerometer or other motion sensor a camera a compass a magnetometer a light sensor an infrared sensor a microphone or other audio sensor a radiation sensor a temperature sensor a barometer an altimeter or other data gathering components.

One or more storage devices may be operable in the example of to store information for processing during operation of computing device . In some examples storage devices may represent temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of storage devices is not long term storage. For instance storage devices of computing device may be volatile memory configured for short term storage of information and therefore not retain stored contents if powered off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art.

Storage devices in some examples also represent one or more computer readable storage media. That is storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than a temporary memory. For instance storage devices may include non volatile memory that retains information through power on off cycles. Examples of non volatile memories include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. In any case storage devices may in the example of store program instructions and or data associated with modules and .

In the example of one or more processors may be configured to implement functionality and or execute instructions within computing device . For example processors may be operable to receive and execute instructions stored at storage devices that implement the functionality of UI module application modules suggestion module response suggestion module action prediction module and context module . These instructions executed by processors may cause computing device to store information within storage devices e.g. temporary memories during program execution. Processors may execute instructions of modules and to cause UI device to output candidate responses in response to computing device receiving a communication. Furthermore processors may execute the instructions of modules and to determine an operation that is contextually related to a response communication. That is modules and may be operable by processors to perform various actions including predicting candidate responses to a received communication and predicting one or more operations based on the received communication and a selected response communication.

Computing device may in the example of receive a communication. For instance one of communication units may receive data from a network e.g. a wireless network or cellular network adhering to the SMS protocol and representing a text message. Communications units may provide the received data to one or more of application modules that are designated e.g. previously designated by a user to handle data adhering to the SMS protocol such as application module A.

Application module A may receive the text message and cause computing device to output at least an indication of the text message. For instance application module A may send information to UI module that causes UI device or any of output devices to display a visual representation of the text e.g. We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. included in the text message. The user of computing device may view the output and provide input that instructs computing device to respond to the text message. That is UI module may receive an indication of input performed at UI device or any of input devices that selects an option to respond to the received text message. UI module may provide the indication of input to application module A.

Responsive to receiving the input to instruct computing device to respond to the text message application module A may request candidate responses from communication action module . In requesting candidate responses application module A may provide information that was included in the text message e.g. the text We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. and or other information e.g. an indication of the sender of the text message . That is a request for candidate responses in various examples may include information that was included in a received email a received text message a received application notification a received calendar invite a reminder or other communication. In some examples the request for candidate responses may include all of the information included in the received communication. That is the request may include the entire email text message etc. In other examples the request may include a portion of information. For instance the request may include a date and time indicated in the received communication an indicated location the names of participants in a meeting emoji a picture or other information. Communication action module may receive the request for candidate responses and provide the request to response suggestion module .

Response suggestion module may be operable to receive a request for candidate responses and determine one or more candidate responses to a communication. In some examples response suggestion module may be operable to determine candidate responses by using natural language processing or other techniques to parse the received communication determine semantic meaning and or one or more semantic elements and predict candidate responses that a user may be likely to select as a response to the received communication. For instance response suggestion module may parse text to obtain important phrases and distill key ideas e.g. semantic elements . For instance response suggestion module may implement computer learning techniques trained from various corpora sources. That is response suggestion module may predict candidate responses by using data that was previously learned from parsing large volumes of text including indications provided by humans of different parts of speech indications of key ideas indications of types of speech and other indications. Response suggestion module may learn from these corpora and apply the results to text input. For instance response suggestion module may determine various parts of speech e.g. subject object verb noun noun phrase etc. for the text input and determine subjects or items having values within a conceptual data space e.g. a semantic space for the input. The semantic elements may be topics or subjects that may be mentioned in referred to described in or otherwise present in the input. In some examples response suggestion module may determine semantic elements using clustering. While described with respect to response suggestion module one or more of the aforementioned techniques may be performed at one or more remote computing devices other than computing device .

After determining semantic elements for some text input e.g. a communication response suggestion module may use natural language processing techniques to determine one or more responses that a user might be likely to select. In some examples response suggestion module may determine the responses based on previous responses selected by the user and or other users. That is response suggestion module may use various statistics to determine word choice phrase construction and other factors relevant to creating candidate responses. By condensing received communications to semantic elements e.g. one or more subjects response suggestion module may determine a semantic meaning of the communication e.g. what the communication is about . In some examples response suggestion module may weigh semantic elements by importance e.g. based on predetermined importance values based on frequency of occurrence in a communication and or other factors . By analyzing previous responses to communications having substantially similar semantic meanings e.g. similar important subjects response suggestion module may increase the likelihood that the predicted candidate responses will be relevant to the received communication. Two semantic meanings may in various examples be substantially similar if they have a threshold number e.g. one three five or other number of semantic elements that are the same if they have a threshold percentage e.g. twenty percent fifty percent or other percentage of semantic elements the same if one semantic meaning has a threshold number of semantic elements that exist in the other semantic meaning if the semantic meanings are probabilistically similar or if some other criteria are satisfied.

In the example of response suggestion module might determine based on the received communication that the sender of the communication is at a place called Yotteru Sushi Restaurant with one or more other people. Based on previous responses provided by the user of computing device and or other users response suggestion module may predict responses that the user might select such as responses to indicate that the user plans to join responses to query where the location is or other responses. In other words response suggestion module may in some examples use various machine learning techniques such as natural language processing to parse communications and determine candidate responses.

In some examples response suggestion module may be operable to determine candidate responses to the received communication by using one or more words and or punctuation marks from the communication as input for one or more lookup tables. For instance response suggestion module may determine a type of communication by searching a lookup table e.g. a communication type lookup table for the first word in each sentence and the corresponding punctuation mark at the end of the sentence. The communication type lookup table may include entries that indicate a type of communication for various combinations such as a location request type that corresponds to the combination of where and a question mark character a time request type that corresponds to the combination of when and question mark character a confirmation request type that corresponds to the combination of want and question mark character a status update type that corresponds to we or we re or I or I m and a period character or no punctuation etc. Thus for the text message We re all at Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. response suggestion module may determine a status update type.

Response suggestion module may also determine one or more subjects of the received communication by using words or word combinations to search a lookup table e.g. a subject matter lookup table that defines certain types of subjects such as locations people objects or items or other types. If a word is included in the subject matter lookup table the word may be a subject of the corresponding type. For instance if Restaurant or Yotteru Sushi Restaurant is included in the subject matter lookup table it may correspond to a location type and or an item type. That is a restaurant may correspond to a specific location a specific item e.g. the restaurant itself or both.

In some examples response suggestion module may determine candidate responses based on the determined communication type the determined subject type and the subject itself. For instance response suggestion module may access another lookup table e.g. a response lookup table using these values as input to receive one or more candidate responses as output. In the example of the response lookup table may include an entry for a status update type with a location type subject and a subject of Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. The entry may correspond to stored candidate responses such as On my way I can t make it Sounds like fun or other candidate responses. In various examples response suggestion module may use more or fewer tables in a similar fashion to determine candidate responses. That is while described in the example of as a communication type lookup table a subject matter lookup table and a response lookup table techniques of the present disclosure may in other examples utilize any number of lookup tables providing additional or other specificity. After determining candidate responses response suggestion module may provide the candidate responses to application module A.

In the example of application module A may receive the candidate responses and send data to UI module to cause UI device or one or more of output devices to display a representation of the candidate responses. The user of computing device may view the displayed responses and provide input that selects one of the candidate responses or inputs a custom response. That is UI module may receive an indication of input performed at UI device or any of input devices that selects a response option representing a candidate response or that inputs a custom response. UI module may provide the indication of input to application module A.

Application module A may receive the indication of input that selects a response and responsive to receiving the indication may send the selected response. For instance in the example of application A may receive an indication of input to select the candidate response On my way and may send the selected candidate response e.g. to the sender of the received communication .

In the example of application module A may send an indication of the selected candidate response to communication action module . Communication action module may provide the indication of the candidate response to action suggestion module for determination of one or more operations that are contextually related to the candidate response based at least in part on at least one of the received communication and the candidate response. That is action suggestion module may be operable to determine at least one operation that is relevant to the context of the selected candidate response based at least in part on the communications.

In some examples action suggestion module may predict contextually related operations based on computer learning techniques and or natural language processing of the received communication and candidate response. For instance action suggestion module may parse the selected candidate response to determine a semantic meaning for the candidate response e.g. what the selected candidate response is about . Along with the information indicating the semantic meaning of the received communication action suggestion module may use the semantic meaning of the selected candidate response to predict an operation that the user may be likely to cause computing device to perform when computing device has received communications and sent responses that were associated with substantially similar semantic meanings. For instance action suggestion module may determine previous correspondences e.g. previously received communications and previously sent responses that were associated with a group of semantic elements that included a threshold number of semantic elements existent in a group of semantic elements associated with the selected candidate response and or the received communication. Action suggestion module may determine operations that were performed within a threshold amount of time after the determined previous correspondences. For instance action suggestion module may determine operations that were performed immediately after the previous correspondence within 2 minutes of the correspondence within 5 minutes or otherwise performed at a similar time. That is in some examples action suggestion module may predict contextually related operations by learning what operations computing devices e.g. computing device and or other computing devices have previously performed given substantially similar previously received communications and corresponding responses.

In the example of for instance computing devices that received a status update message indicating a location and sent a response that indicated the user intends to travel to the location may have received input that caused the computing device to provide directions to the location. Based on this correlation action suggestion module may determine an operation to obtain driving directions to Yotteru Sushi Restaurant.

In some examples action suggestion module may determine contextually related operations using other methods. For instance action suggestion module may parse the selected candidate response using one or more lookup tables to determine a response type and a subject type. Action suggestion module may then use the communication type subject and or subject type for the received communication along with the response type subject and or subject type of the selected candidate response to look up a corresponding operation that is contextually related to the candidate response.

In some examples action suggestion module may parse the selected candidate response and or the received communication and determine a plurality of operations based on one or more semantic elements included in the communications. A semantic element generally may be any specified sequence of symbols or combinations of symbols that have meaning in a spoken and or written language. Examples of semantic elements may include one or more words e.g. a noun a noun phrase a verb a verb phrase etc. one or more numbers or number groups one or more emoticons or a combination of such items. Action suggestion module may determine operations by searching the received communication and or the selected candidate response for semantic elements associated with operations. If the communications contain any semantic element associated with a particular operation action suggestion module may include the particular operation in the plurality of operations. Action suggestion module may determine respective scores associated with each of the plurality of operations. For instance a respective score for a particular operation may indicate the number of semantic elements included in or otherwise associated with the communications that are also associated with the particular operation. That is action suggestion module may compare each semantic element included in the communications with each semantic element associated with the operation. If the semantic elements are the same or at least substantially similar action suggestion module may increment the corresponding score. Two semantic elements may be substantially similar if the elements are the same or if the elements are probabilistically within a degree of similarity that is greater than a threshold value. Action suggestion module may then select as the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response the operation associated with the best respective score. In other words action suggestion module may in some examples use groups of semantic elements associated with operations to determine which operation has the most semantic elements in common with the communications.

In some examples action suggestion module may determine the operation that is contextually related to the selected candidate response by parsing the selected candidate response to determine a semantic meaning of the candidate response. Action suggestion module may use the semantic meaning of the candidate response and or the semantic meaning of the received communication to determine one of application modules that is registered to handle information associated with the determined semantic meaning or meanings. An application module may be registered to handle information associated with a semantic meaning by an operating system of the computing device a user of the computing device an administrator of the computing device or registered in some other way. The registered application module may be operable to receive information associated with the semantic meaning e.g. information of a specific type information about specific topics etc. and act on the information. For instance action suggestion module may determine that the semantic meaning of the received communication and or the selected candidate response is a contact of the user of computing device by the name of George. Action suggestion module may determine that the application registered to handle contacts is an address book application. Based on the determination of the registered application action suggestion module may determine an operation to cause the registered application to execute on information included in at least one of the received communication and or the selected candidate response. For instance action suggestion module may determine an operation to cause the address book application to execute with the information George e.g. which may cause the address book application to search for contacts name George .

In the example of action suggestion module may execute the determined operation. For instance action suggestion module may use an API call of one of application modules e.g. a maps application or navigation application and include an indication of the location e.g. Yotteru Sushi Restaurant to cause computing device to execute the operation and provide directions to Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. Action suggestion module and or application modules may provide data to UI module that causes UI or one or more of output devices to output the information for display.

In some examples determining candidate responses and or determining contextually related operations may be based additionally or alternatively on contextual information that defines a current context of computing device and or a current context of a user of computing device e.g. as defined by items of contextual information . That is in some examples response suggestion module may determine candidate responses based on the current context of computing device and or the user. Furthermore action suggestion module may in some examples determine operations that are contextually related to the candidate response based on the current context of computing device and or the user. Response suggestion module and or action suggestion module may communicate with context module to obtain contextual information that defines the current context.

Context module may be operable to obtain contextual information for use in determining candidate responses and or contextually related operations. The information may include contextual information about computing device . For instance context module may obtain items of information representing one or more locations of computing device information indicating a time and or time zone setting of computing device information indicating movement of computing device an ambient noise level of the environment around computing device an ambient light level of the environment or other sensor data e.g. obtained from sensors . Additional examples of items of contextual information may include information indicating one or more applications currently being executed by computing device and or an activity in which a currently executing application is engaging information indicating the type of the received communication e.g. email text message calendar alert or other type information indicating the type of response that the computing device will be sending information indicating the time at which the communication was received information indicating previous communications to or from the sender information indicating an occupation of the user information indicating an activity in which the user is currently engaged information indicating the sender of the received communication or information indicating one or more recipients of the response that the computing device will be sending.

In some examples context module may additionally or alternatively obtain items of contextual information about a user of computing device . For instance context module may obtain contextual information about the user from an email account associated with a user a social network service account of the user a web search history associated with the user a location history associated with the user or any other source. That is in some examples context module may obtain any information usable by one or more components of communication action module to determine more accurate candidate responses and or more accurate operations that are contextually related to candidate responses.

Context module may only obtain contextual information about computing device and or a user of computing device if the user provides explicit permission. That is context module may only obtain various sources of information for predicting candidate responses and or contextual operations if a user of computing device explicitly allows communication action module to access various sources of contextual information. For instance computing device may prompt the user to allow access to sources of contextual information such as sensors an email account of the user a social network service account or other account. If the user explicitly agrees to allow access one or more components of communication action module may obtain the contextual information and use the contextual information in determining candidate responses and or determining contextually related operations.

In the example of context module may obtain contextual information e.g. from one of sensors indicating that computing device is currently at Location X. Context module may also obtain contextual information e.g. from a maps application indicating a plurality of locations of Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. That is context module may obtain information indicating a location of computing device and information indicating locations of Yotteru Sushi.

In some examples context module may be operable to determine a current context of computing device based on obtained items of contextual information. For instance context module may define a current context as a collection of all obtained items of contextual information. In another example contextual module may define a current context by determining weights for various items of contextual information. Context module may weigh each item of contextual information based on a predicted accuracy and or a predicted importance of the item. In the example of context module may weigh the contextual information indicating Location X very heavily because the location of computing device is likely to be very accurate. Context module may weigh the contextual information indicating each of the locations of Yotteru Sushi Restaurant lighter because the text Yotteru Sushi Restaurant is a general location identifier and it is not certain which of the restaurant locations the received communication was referring to. By determining the current context context module may allow response suggestion module and or action suggestion module to determine more accurate candidate responses that are more likely to be selected by a user and or more closely related operations. For instance response suggestion module may in the example of use the determined current context to determine the candidate response The one on Washington St. That is response suggestion module may receive the context from context module including contextual information that indicates the multiple locations of Yotteru Sushi Restaurant and the associated weights. Because each restaurant is weighted approximately the same response suggestion module may determine that it is not certain which of the Yotteru Sushi Restaurants the received communication is referring to.

In various examples response suggestion module may use the determined current context in addition to or instead of other information e.g. information included in a received communication metadata about the received communication etc. to determine candidate responses. That is in accordance with the techniques described herein response suggestion module may in some examples determine one or more candidate responses that are associated with a semantic meaning that is similar to the semantic meaning of the received communication e.g. based on the natural language processing of previously received communications previously selected candidate responses and or previously input custom responses . Response suggestion module may in some examples rank the determined candidate responses by their contextual similarity to the current context of computing device . Contextual similarity may be a measure of how many items of contextual information are the same between two contexts. For instance a candidate response may be associated with a context that is substantially similar to the current context if one of the contexts includes a threshold number e.g. one three five or other number of items of contextual information that exist in the other context. Other examples of determining substantial similarity between contexts include determining whether the contexts each include a threshold percentage of items of contextual information that are the same e.g. twenty percent fifty percent or other percentage or other methods of measuring the contextual similarity.

Response suggestion module may output the determined candidate responses that are associated with contexts or items of contextual information that are the most similar to the current context or the current items of contextual information. For instance response suggestion module may score the determined candidate responses based on the number of items of contextual information that are the same as items of contextual information included in the current context. Response suggestion module may then output the determined candidate responses that are associated with the highest scores. In some examples response suggestion module may output the top responses e.g. the top three the top five etc. . In some examples response suggestion module may output responses associated with scores that are above a threshold score.

Furthermore action suggestion module may in various examples use the determined current context in addition to or instead of other information e.g. information included in the communications metadata other communications etc. to determine contextually related operations. That is in accordance with the techniques described herein action suggestion module may determine one or more operations that are associated with a semantic meaning that is similar to the semantic meaning that is associated with the received communication and or the selected candidate response e.g. based on natural language processing of previously received communications previously selected responses and or previous operations . In some examples action suggestion module may rank the determined operations by their contextual similarity to the current context of computing device . Action suggestion module may output the determined operations that are associated with contexts or items of contextual information that are the most similar to the current context or the current items of contextual information. For instance action suggestion module may score the determined operations based on the number of items of contextual information that are the same as items of contextual information included in the current context. Action suggestion module may then output the determined operations that are associated with the highest score or scores. In some examples action suggestion module may output the top operations e.g. the top operation the top three operations etc. . In some examples action suggestion module may output operations associated with scores that are above a threshold score.

As shown in the example of computing device may be a processor that includes functionality as described with respect to processors in . In such examples computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display by a communication channel A which may be a system bus or other suitable connection. Computing device may also be operatively coupled to communication unit further described below by a communication channel B which may also be a system bus or other suitable connection. Although shown separately as an example in computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display and communication unit by any number of one or more communication channels.

In other examples such as illustrated previously by computing device in a computing device may refer to a portable or mobile device such as mobile phones including smart phones laptop computers etc. In some examples a computing device may be a desktop computer tablet computer smart television platform camera personal digital assistant PDA server mainframe etc.

Presence sensitive display as one of input devices and or output devices as shown in may include display device and presence sensitive input device . Display device may for example receive data from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive input device may determine one or more user inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at presence sensitive display using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such user input to computing device using communication channel A. In some examples presence sensitive input device may be physically positioned on top of display device such that when a user positions an input unit over a graphical element displayed by display device the location at which presence sensitive input device corresponds to the location of display device at which the graphical element is displayed. In other examples presence sensitive input device may be positioned physically apart from display device and locations of presence sensitive input device may correspond to locations of display device such that input can be made at presence sensitive input device for interacting with graphical elements displayed at corresponding locations of display device .

As shown in computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with communication unit . Communication unit may include functionality of communication units as described in . Examples of communication unit may include a network interface card an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such communication units may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. Computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with one or more other devices e.g. input devices output devices memory storage devices etc. that are not shown in for purposes of brevity and illustration.

Projector screen in some examples may include a presence sensitive display . Presence sensitive display may include a subset of functionality or all of the functionality of input devices and or output devices as described in this disclosure. In some examples presence sensitive display may include additional functionality. Projector screen e.g. an electronic whiteboard may receive data from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive display may determine one or more user inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at projector screen using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such user input using one or more communication units to computing device .

As described above in some examples computing device may output graphical content for display at presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by a system bus or other suitable communication channel. Computing device may also output graphical content for display at one or more remote devices such as projector projector screen mobile device and visual display device . For instance computing device may execute one or more instructions to generate and or modify graphical content in accordance with techniques of the present disclosure. Computing device may output the data that includes the graphical content to a communication unit of computing device such as communication unit . Communication unit may send the data to one or more of the remote devices such as projector projector screen mobile device and or visual display device . In this way computing device may output the graphical content for display at one or more of the remote devices. In some examples one or more of the remote devices may output the graphical content at a presence sensitive display that is included in and or operatively coupled to the respective remote devices.

In some examples computing device may not output graphical content at presence sensitive display that is operatively coupled to computing device . In other examples computing device may output graphical content for display at both a presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by communication channel A and at one or more remote devices. In such examples the graphical content may be displayed substantially contemporaneously at each respective device. For instance some delay may be introduced by the communication latency to send the data that includes the graphical content to the remote device. In some examples graphical content generated by computing device and output for display at presence sensitive display may be different than graphical content display output for display at one or more remote devices.

Computing device may send and receive data using any suitable communication techniques. For example computing device may be operatively coupled to external network using network link A. Each of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled to network external network by one of respective network links B C and D. External network may include network hubs network switches network routers etc. that are operatively inter coupled thereby providing for the exchange of information between computing device and the remote devices illustrated in . In some examples network links A D may be Ethernet ATM or other network connections. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

In some examples computing device may be operatively coupled to one or more of the remote devices included in using direct device communication . Direct device communication may include communications through which computing device sends and receives data directly with a remote device using wired or wireless communication. That is in some examples of direct device communication data sent by computing device may not be forwarded by one or more additional devices before being received at the remote device and vice versa. Examples of direct device communication may include Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus WiFi infrared etc. One or more of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled with computing device by communication links A D. In some examples communication links A D may be connections using Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus infrared etc. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

In accordance with techniques of the disclosure computing device may be operatively coupled to visual display device using external network . Computing device may output graphical content for display at presence sensitive display . For instance computing device may send data that includes a GUI for one or more of application modules to communication unit . Communication unit may send the data that includes the GUI to visual display device using external network . Visual display device in response to receiving the data using external network may cause presence sensitive display to output the GUI. In response to receiving one or more user inputs such as a gesture at presence sensitive display e.g. at a region of presence sensitive display visual display device and other of input devices may send indications of the inputs to computing device using external network . Communication unit of may receive the indications of the inputs and send the indications to computing device .

Computing device may in the example of receive a communication. Computing device may output an indication of the received communication e.g. for display . For instance computing device may send data for a visual representation of the received communication to communication unit . Communication unit may send the data to visual display device via external network . Visual display device may cause presence sensitive display to output the visual representation of the received communication for display.

Responsive to receiving an indication of user input to respond to the received communication e.g. input performed at one of input devices computing device e.g. communication action module may determine one or more candidate responses. Computing device may send data for a visual representation of at least one of the one or more candidate responses to communication unit for display.

Computing device may receive input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses and may send the candidate response e.g. in response to the received communication . Computing device may determine an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response and execute the operation. In some examples as part of performing the operation computing device may output a GUI for display. That is computing device may send data for a visual interface to communication unit . Communication unit may send the data to visual display device via external network . Visual display device may cause presence sensitive display to output the visual interface e.g. to a user .

In some examples performing one or more operations that are contextually related to a selected candidate response may include performing one or more operations to obtain and or output information about a subject of the selected candidate response and or the received communication. That is responsive to receiving input e.g. from a user to select a response to a received communication a computing device implementing techniques of the present disclosure may in some examples determine an operation to provide a user with information about a subject e.g. a person a location an item or object etc. included in the communications. Examples of information about a subject included in the communications may include weather information about a location travel information to a location e.g. turn by turn driving directions public transportation directions available flights to the location or other travel information reviews of a location or object e.g. a restaurant a store a movie etc. such as user reviews from social media network services or critic reviews biographical information about a person social media network service accounts for a subject or information obtained therefrom recent news articles or media stories about a subject availability of an item or object for purchase e.g. from one or more stores shopping or auction websites or elsewhere or other information about the subject that may be useful to a user. In other words determining an operation that is contextually related to a candidate response may in some examples include determining an operation to obtain information about a subject included in the received communication and or the candidate response.

In accordance with the techniques described herein computing device may receive a communication such as an instant message that includes the text When are you going to New York One or more components of computing device e.g. one of application modules may cause UI device to output GUI for display. For instance in the example of computing device may provide the received communication to one of application modules that is designated to handle instant messages e.g. application module B . Application module B may send information to UI module to cause GUI to be output for display at UI device . In some examples GUI may be output in response to receiving the instant message. In some examples GUI may be output in response to input provided by a user instructing computing device to display the instant message.

In the example of GUI includes text and user selectable element . Text may be a representation of at least a portion of the information included in the instant message. In some examples text may represent all the information included in the instant message. In some examples the instant message may include additional or other information. Element may be an object of the GUI that a user may select to provide input instructing computing device to respond to the instant message.

Computing device may in the example of receive input e.g. selection selecting element . That is UI device may receive selection and send data representing the input to UI module . UI module may receive the data and provide an indication of the input to application module B. Application module B may determine that the input corresponds to a selection of element . Consequently application module B may request candidate responses from communication action module .

In the example of communication action module may receive the request and determine candidate responses to the instant message. In order to determine candidate responses communication action module may parse the information included in the instant message and search for combinations of words and or punctuation marks using one or more lookup tables to determine a semantic meaning of the instant message e.g. what the instant message is about . For instance Communication action module may determine that the word when and the punctuation mark together indicate a request for a time value. Communication action module may also determine that the words going to represent an action and that that the words you and New York represent subjects.

Communication action module may in the example of obtain various types of contextual information in order to determine candidate responses. That is communication action module may obtain information about computing device and or about the user of computing device . Based on the information communication action module may determine that the user is flying to New York City next Wednesday. For instance communication action module may obtain contextual information from an email account of the user that indicates a purchase of a ticket to New York leaving at 5 23 PM on Apr. 23 2014 for a person named Bryan Dons. Communication action module may obtain contextual information from computing device indicating that the user s name is Bryan Dons. Communication action module may also obtain contextual information from a clock of computing device indicating that the current date is Apr. 17 2014. Based on this information communication action module may determine that the user is travelling to New York by flight at approximately 5 PM next week Wednesday. Based on the information included in the instant message and the obtained contextual information communication action module may determine one or more candidate responses and send the candidate responses to application module B.

Application module B may receive the candidate responses and send information to UI module to cause UI device to output GUI for display. As shown in the example of GUI includes response options A B and C collectively response options . Each of responses options may correspond to a respective candidate response. In the example of the candidate responses determined by communication action module may be based on varying levels of privacy. That is the candidate response corresponding to response option A indicates only a general response while the candidate responses corresponding to response options B and C may be increasingly more specific responses. This may allow the user to select his or her desired level of privacy for the interaction. That is in some examples communication action module may determine candidate responses that provide varying levels of privacy to the user thereby allowing the user to select how much or how little of his or her information he or she would like to share in a response.

In the example of computing device may receive an indication of user input e.g. selection that selects response option A e.g. corresponding to the candidate response Next week . That is UI device may receive selection and send data representing the input to UI module . UI module may receive the data and provide an indication of the input to application module B. Application module B may determine that the input corresponds to a selection of response option A.

Responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects response option A application module B may cause computing device to send the candidate response Next week as an instant message. That is responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects a candidate response computing device may send the candidate response. Application module B may also send an indication of the candidate response to communication action module .

Communication action module may in the example of receive the indication of the candidate response and determine one or more operations to obtain information about a subject or subjects included in the instant message and or the selected candidate response. For instance communication action module may parse the language of the selected candidate response using lookup tables in a fashion similar to the parsing of the received communication. Consequently communication action module may determine a relative time value next week from the candidate response. Communication action module may use the relative time value along with the subjects New York and You and the action going to as input for a lookup table that stores contextually relevant operations. The input values together may correspond to an operation to provide weather information about the location. That is the lookup table may indicate that an affirmative action of travel e.g. going to a geographic location e.g. New York and a relative time e.g. next week together correspond to a contextually related operation to provide weather information about the location.

In the example of communication action module may execute the operation. For instance communication action module may call an API of a weather application of computing device the call providing the relevant location and time frame e.g. New York N.Y. and next week . The weather application may execute and send data to UI module that causes UI device to output GUI . As shown in the example of GUI shows the weather for New York N.Y. next week.

While described in the example of as providing weather information about a subject included in the received communication and or selected response contextually related operations may provide various other types of information about communication subjects. For instance if communication action module determines a location of New York a relative time of next week and an action of want to go communication action module may determine an operation to provide travel options to New York City. As another example if communication action module determines an action of want to go and a request for location e.g. based on the word where and a question mark character in a received communication and determines a location of Yotteru Sushi Restaurant e.g. entered by a user as a custom response communication action module may determine an operation to provide restaurant reviews of Yotteru Sushi Restaurant. Various other types of information may be provided in a number of examples in accordance with the techniques of the present disclosure.

In some examples performing one or more operations that are contextually related to a selected candidate response may include performing one or more operations to create modify or remove scheduling items. That is responsive to receiving input e.g. from a user to select a response to a received communication a computing device implementing techniques of the present disclosure may in some examples determine an operation to create modify or remove scheduling items associated with a subject e.g. a person a location an item or object etc. included in the communications. Examples of operations that create modify or remove scheduling items may include operations to create modify or remove a calendar event on a calendar associated with the user operations to create modify or remove an event on a social media network service using an account associated with the user operations to create modify or remove a reservation e.g. a table reservation at a restaurant a hotel reservation a rental reservation a reservation for a plane flight bus trip or movie a reservation for a meeting room etc. operations to create modify or remove a service appointment or other operation to address a scheduling item that may be useful to a user. In other words determining an operation that is contextually related to a candidate response may in some examples include determining an operation to create a scheduling item modify a scheduling item or remove a scheduling item that relates to the received communication and or the selected response.

In accordance with the techniques described herein computing device may receive a communication such as an email that includes the text Want to go to Yotteru Sushi Restaurant at 7 tomorrow night One or more components of computing device e.g. one of application modules may cause UI device to output GUI for display. For instance in the example of computing device may provide the received communication to one of application modules that is designated to handle email messages e.g. application module C . Application module C may send information to UI module to cause GUI to be output for display at UI device . In some examples GUI may be output in response to receiving the email. In some examples GUI may be output in response to input provided by a user instructing computing device to display the email.

In the example of GUI includes text and user selectable element . Text may be a representation of at least a portion of the information included in the email. In some examples text may represent all the information included in the email. In some examples the email may include additional or other information such as header information. Element may be an object of the GUI that a user may select to provide input instructing computing device to respond to the email.

Computing device may in the example of receive input e.g. selection selecting element . That is UI device may receive selection and send data representing the input to UI module . UI module may receive the data and provide an indication of the input to application module C. Application module C may determine that the input corresponds to a selection of element . Consequently application module C may request candidate responses from communication action module .

In the example of communication action module may receive the request and determine candidate responses to the email. In order to determine candidate responses communication action module may parse the information included in the email using natural language processing or other language processing techniques to determine a semantic meaning for the instant message e.g. what the instant message is about . For instance Communication action module may determine that the instant message is requesting information from the user about an action the user is taking with respect to a location New York.

Communication action module may in the example of obtain various types of contextual information in order to determine candidate responses. That is communication action module may obtain information about computing device and or about the user of computing device . Based on the information communication action module may determine that the user has a meeting until 7 PM tomorrow night. For instance communication action module may obtain contextual information from a calendar application of the user that indicates a meeting item from 5 PM to 7 PM on Apr. 18 2014. Communication action module may also obtain contextual information from a clock of computing device indicating that the current date is Apr. 17 2014. Based on this information communication action module may determine that the user has a scheduled meeting until 7 PM tomorrow night. Based on the information included in the email metadata or other information about the email and or the obtained contextual information communication action module may determine one or more candidate responses and send the candidate responses to application module C.

Application module C may receive the candidate responses and send information to UI module to cause UI device to output GUI for display. As shown in the example of GUI includes response options A B and C collectively response options . Each of responses options may correspond to a respective candidate response. In the example of the candidate responses determined by communication action module may include the candidate response That sounds great I already have plans and How about 8 p.m. 

In the example of computing device may receive an indication of user input e.g. selection that selects response option A e.g. corresponding to the candidate response that sounds great . That is UI device may receive selection and send data representing the input to UI module . UI module may receive the data and provide an indication of the input to application module C. Application module C may determine that the input corresponds to a selection of response option A.

Responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects response option A application module C may cause computing device to send the candidate response That sounds great as an email. That is responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects a candidate response computing device may send the candidate response. Application module C may also send an indication of the candidate response to communication action module .

Communication action module may in the example of receive the indication of the candidate response and determine one or more operations to create modify or remove a scheduling item related to the subject or subjects included in the email and or the selected candidate response. For instance communication action module may parse the language of the selected candidate response using natural language processing techniques in a fashion similar to the parsing of the received communication. Consequently communication action module may determine that the user responded in the affirmative to the social reservation request. Communication action module may use the indication of affirmation the indication of a location e.g. Yotteru Sushi Restaurant the indication of location type e.g. restaurant and the indication of time e.g. tomorrow at 9 PM to determine an operation. For instance communication action module may determine that affirming a location of the restaurant type at a specific time together corresponds to a contextually related operation to create a reservation with the indicated restaurant at the indicated time.

In the example of communication action module may execute the operation. For instance communication action module may call an API of a restaurant application or reservation application of computing device the call providing the relevant restaurant restaurant location and time e.g. Yotteru Sushi Restaurant 250 E 6th street and Friday April 18 at 7 PM . The receiving application may execute and send data to UI module that causes UI device to output GUI .

As shown in the example of GUI may indicate to the user of computing device that computing device is performing or about to perform the operation to create a reservation. GUI includes user selectable elements that may enable the user to modify or cancel the operation such as elements A and B. In some examples if computing device does not receive an indication of input that selects one of elements A or B within a threshold amount of time computing device e.g. application module C may perform the operation and create the reservation.

While described in the example of as creating a table reservation at a restaurant indicated in the received communication and or selected response contextually related operations may create modify or remove various other types of scheduling events related to communication subjects. For instance if communication action module determines that the received communication indicates someone will be late to a shared meeting and the response communication is an acceptance of this information communication action module may determine an operation to modify the meeting event to start at a later time. As another example if communication action module determines that the received communication indicates that a user is invited to a meeting in a first city that the response communication accepts the meeting and that the user has a hotel reservation for the same day in a second city communication action module may determine an operation to cancel the hotel reservation e.g. in some examples after prompting the user for confirmation .

In the example of computing device may receive a communication . Computing device may determine one or more candidate responses to the received communication based at least in part on the communication . For instance computing device may select candidate responses from a number of stored candidate responses use predictive techniques to generate candidate responses and or send a request for candidate responses to one or more other computing devices.

Computing device may in the example of receive an indication of user input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses . Responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response computing device may send the candidate response . For instance computing device may send the candidate response to the computing device from which the communication was received.

In the example of computing device may determine an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response . The operation may be contextually related to the candidate response based at least in part on at least one of the candidate response and the received communication. For instance computing device may select one or more contextually related operations from a number of stored operations use predictive techniques to determine one or more contextually related operations or send a request for one or more contextually related operations to one or more other computing devices. Computing device may execute the operation .

A computing device or system configured in accordance with the techniques described herein may parse out a question from a received communication such as an email. The computing device may determine candidate responses by sending the question through a voice search module. In some examples the question may be sent with the same access rights as a user or owner of the system. The voice search module may provide a number of possible responses e.g. ordered by confidence . The system may present the possible responses to a user e.g. at a display device . The system may allow the user to select a response from a list of responses speak a custom response or both. In some examples the system may present the user with an action related to the response. For instance selecting thanks for the address I m on my way could cause the system to open an action to start directions to the received address.

In some examples such as where a user of the system grants full trust to a specific contact the system may automatically reply to messages received from that person without any interaction from the user. That is the system may send responses automatically in a true zero interaction zero attention experience. In some examples the system may be enabled to receive candidate responses from other sources such as other application modules. For instance the system may receive answers to questions about restaurant bookings from a reservation application. In some examples the user s context can be taken into consideration and response options may be provided that are based on the context such as I ll get back to you after running or I ll get back to you after being stuck in traffic. The techniques described herein may be applicable to all types of communications including SMS or text messages emails chat messages or IM messages etc.

In some examples existing voice search technology and existing actions may ease implementation of the techniques described herein. That is by connecting the data flows in new ways a computing device such as a mobile phone may move closer to becoming a true assistant that can handle information exchange in a fast platform independent and efficient way. Because the user is in full control of what is shared the user s privacy does not need to be compromised. Using techniques of the present disclosure a user may be able to cause a computing device to respond to a received communication with complex information in a very short time e.g. in as few as one or two interactions and in as little as one or two seconds . By automatically researching calendar information email information contact information and other information a computing device implementing the techniques described herein may provide complete information without the user searching through each type of information to determine such a complete understanding. Furthermore by automatically performing actions based on responses a computing device implementing the techniques described herein may allow users to easily perform common tasks.

One example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message Hey are you doing anything tonight and providing the responses Meeting with Alex from 6 to 8 I m busy until 8 pm and I m busy sorry. Another example may include receiving the message Can you meet us for dinner at 9 pm and providing the responses Yes see you then and How about tomorrow night at 8 pm Furthermore responsive to receiving input from a user to select the response Yes see you then a computing device implementing the techniques described herein may create a calendar event for dinner at 9 pm. Another example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message Do you have Sarah s phone number and providing the responses Sara Louis 555 123 4567 Sara Lane 555 123 4556 and No sorry. 

Another example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message Please remember to pick up milk and providing the responses Will do Where and When Furthermore responsive to receiving input from a user to select the response Will do a computing device implementing the techniques described herein may add a reminder to pick up milk in one hour. Another example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message Where are you and providing the responses At home North Beach and 5366 Broadway San Francisco. Furthermore responsive to receiving input from a user to select a response a computing device implementing the techniques described herein may attach a map to the message. Another example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message How tall is Barack Obama and providing the response 6 1 1.85 m . Another example may include receiving the message Which flight are you on and providing the response UA555 SFO ORD Delayed 1 hour 10 49 pm Terminal 3. 

Another example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message Did you call Larry and providing the responses Yes and No. Furthermore responsive to receiving input from a user to select a response a computing device implementing the techniques described herein may initiate a phone call to Larry. Another example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message Call me and providing the responses OK and I ll call you tonight at 6 pm. Furthermore responsive to receiving input from a user to select the response OK a computing device implementing the techniques described herein may initiate a phone call to the sender of the received message. Another example of providing candidate responses may include receiving the message When is Matt s party and providing the responses Saturday 9 pm and I don t know. 

A method comprising receiving by a computing device a communication determining based at least in part on the communication one or more candidate responses to the communication receiving by the computing device an indication of user input that selects a candidate response from the one or more candidate responses and responsive to receiving the indication of user input that selects the candidate response sending by the computing device the candidate response determining based at least in part on at least one of the candidate response and the communication an operation that is contextually related to the candidate response and executing by the computing device the operation.

The method of example 1 wherein the candidate response has a semantic meaning and determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response further comprises determining one or more operations that were previously performed in association with a previous response having a semantic meaning that is substantially similar to the semantic meaning of the candidate response.

The method of example 2 wherein each respective operation of the one or more operations is associated with a respective context and wherein determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response further comprises determining a current context of the computing device the current context including a first group of one or more items of contextual information and determining for each respective operation of the one or more operations a respective score based on a respective second group of items of contextual information included in the respective context associated with the respective operation the respective second group of items being substantially similar to the first group of one or more items wherein the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response is determined based at least in part on the respective scores for each of the one or more operations.

The method of example 1 wherein determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response further comprises determining a first group of one or more semantic elements of at least one of the candidate response and the communication determining based at least in part on the first group of one or more semantic elements a plurality of operations and determining a plurality of respective scores each respective score from the plurality of respective scores associated with a respective operation from the plurality of operations wherein the respective score associated with the respective operation represents a respective degree of similarity within a range of degrees of similarity between the first group of one or more semantic elements and a respective second group of one or more semantic elements associated with the respective operation wherein executing the operation comprises executing a particular operation from the plurality of operations that is associated with a highest score from the plurality of respective scores.

The method of example 1 wherein determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response further comprises determining a semantic meaning of at least one of the candidate response and the communication and determining based at least in part on the semantic meaning a registered application wherein the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response comprises executing the registered application based on information included in at least one of the candidate response and the communication.

The example of any of examples 1 5 wherein determining the one or more candidate responses to the communication further comprises determining a semantic meaning of the communication and determining one or more responses that were previously selected to respond to a previously received communication having a semantic meaning that is substantially similar to the semantic meaning of the communication.

The method of example 6 wherein each respective response of the one or more responses is associated with a respective context and wherein determining the one or more candidate responses to the communication further comprises determining a current context of the computing device the current context including a first group of one or more items of contextual information and determining for each respective response of the one or more responses a respective score based on a second group of items of contextual information included in the respective context associated with the respective response the respective second group of items being substantially similar to the first group of one or more items wherein the one or more candidate responses to the communication are determined based at least in part on the respective scores for each of the one or more responses.

The method of any of examples 1 7 further comprising determining a current context of the computing device the current context indicating at least one of a location of the computing device a time determined by the computing device one or more applications installed at the computing device one or more applications currently executing at the computing device one or more networks available to the computing device one or more other computing devices in proximity to the computing device an operating mode of the computing device an ambient temperature around the computing device an ambient noise level around the computing device an ambient light level around the computing device an acceleration of the computing device a name of a user of the computing device a user identifier of the user a social media network service account associated with the user a calendar of the user and one or more social contacts of the user wherein determining the one or more candidate responses to the communication is based at least in part on the current context of the computing device.

The method of any of examples 1 8 wherein at least one of the candidate response and the communication indicates a location and wherein determining the operation comprises determining travel directions to the location and outputting at least a portion of the travel directions.

The method of any of examples 1 8 wherein at least one of the candidate response and the communication indicates a location and wherein determining the operation comprises determining weather information about the location and outputting at least a portion of the weather information.

The method of examples 1 8 wherein determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response comprises at least one of creating a scheduling item managed by a scheduling application modifying the scheduling item managed by the scheduling application and removing the scheduling item managed by the scheduling application.

The method of example 11 wherein the scheduling item is a calendar event and wherein creating modifying or removing the scheduling item comprises creating the calendar event managed by a calendar application modifying the calendar event managed by the calendar application or removing the calendar event managed by the calendar application.

The method of example 11 wherein the scheduling item is a reservation and wherein creating modifying or removing the scheduling item comprises creating the reservation managed by a reservation application modifying the reservation managed by the reservation application or removing the reservation managed by the reservation application.

The method of example 13 wherein the reservation comprises at least one of a table reservation a room reservation a hotel reservation a flight reservation and a rental car reservation.

The method of any of examples 1 14 further comprising determining at least one application module installed at the computing device and determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response based at least in part on the at least one application module being installed at the computing device.

The example of any of claims 1 15 further comprising determining a current context of the computing device the current context comprising one or more items of contextual information determining a time frame throughout which a context of at least one of the computing device and another computing device comprised at least one item of contextual information included in the current context and determining a previous operation that was performed by the at least one of the computing device and another computing device during the time frame.

The method of any of examples 1 16 wherein determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response comprises determining at least one of information that is included in the at least one of the candidate response and the communication metadata about the at least one of the candidate response and the communication one or more other communications and contextual information associated with the at least one of the candidate response and the communication and determining the operation that is contextually related to the candidate response based at least in part on at least one of the information that is included in the at least one of the candidate response and the communication the metadata about the at least one of the candidate response and the communication the one or more other communications and the contextual information associated with the at least one of the candidate response and the communication.

In one or more examples the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code a computer readable medium and executed by a hardware based processing unit. Computer readable media may include computer readable storage media which corresponds to a tangible medium such as data storage media or communication media which includes any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another e.g. according to a communication protocol. In this manner computer readable media generally may correspond to 1 tangible computer readable storage media which is non transitory or 2 a communication medium such as a signal or carrier wave. Data storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by one or more computers or one or more processors to retrieve instructions code and or data structures for implementation of the techniques described in this disclosure. A computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium.

By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if instructions are transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. It should be understood however that computer readable storage media and data storage media do not include connections carrier waves signals or other transient media but are instead directed to non transient tangible storage media. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Instructions may be executed by one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable logic arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects the functionality described herein may be provided within dedicated hardware and or software modules. Also the techniques could be fully implemented in one or more circuits or logic elements.

The techniques of this disclosure may be implemented in a wide variety of devices or apparatuses including a wireless handset an integrated circuit IC or a set of ICs e.g. a chip set . Various components modules or units are described in this disclosure to emphasize functional aspects of devices configured to perform the disclosed techniques but do not necessarily require realization by different hardware units. Rather as described above various units may be combined in a hardware unit or provided by a collection of interoperative hardware units including one or more processors as described above in conjunction with suitable software and or firmware.

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

