---

title: Systems and methods for combining drawings and videos prior to buffer storage
abstract: Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can initiate a video capture mode that provides a camera view. A touch gesture can be detected via a touch display. A drawing can be rendered based on the touch gesture. The drawing can be rendered to appear to overlay the camera view. A first video image frame can be acquired based on the camera view. At least a portion of the first video image frame and the drawing can be combined to produce a first combined frame. The drawing can appear to overlay the first video image frame. The first combined frame can be stored in a video buffer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09583143&OS=09583143&RS=09583143
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09583143
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141219
---
The present technology relates to the field of media processing. More particularly the present technology relates to techniques for combining drawings and videos prior to buffer storage.

Today people often utilize computing devices or systems for a wide variety of purposes. Users can use their computing devices to for example interact with one another create content share information and access information. In some instances a user can utilize his or her computing device to generate media content such as images or videos. For example under conventional approaches a user of a computing device can capture or record a video content item i.e. a video . In some cases the user can store and share the video content item.

Moreover under conventional approaches the user can graphically edit or modify the video content item after the video content item has been captured or recorded. However conventional approaches to generating and editing media content can be uninteresting boring or not sufficiently interactive. These and other similar concerns can reduce or create challenges for the overall user experience associated with using computing devices to produce with media content.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can include systems methods and non transitory computer readable media configured to initiate a video capture mode that provides a camera view. A touch gesture can be detected via a touch display. A drawing can be rendered based on the touch gesture. The drawing can be rendered to appear to overlay the camera view. A first video image frame can be acquired based on the camera view. At least a portion of the first video image frame and the drawing can be combined to produce a first combined frame. The drawing can appear to overlay the first video image frame. The first combined frame can be stored in a video buffer.

In an embodiment a second video image frame can be acquired based on the camera view. The second video image frame can be sequentially subsequent to the first video image frame. At least a portion of the second video image frame and the drawing can be combined to produce a second combined frame. The drawing can appear to overlay the second video image frame. The second combined frame can be stored in the video buffer.

In an embodiment the first combined frame and the second combined frame can be acquired from the video buffer. A video content item can be generated based on at least the first combined frame and the second combined frame. The video content item can present the second combined frame sequentially subsequent to presenting the first combined frame.

In an embodiment the touch gesture can include a first touch gesture portion and a second touch gesture portion. The first touch gesture portion can be detected within an allowable time deviation from the acquiring of the first video image frame. The second touch gesture portion can be detected within an allowable time deviation from the acquiring of the second video image frame.

In an embodiment the first touch gesture portion and the second touch gesture portion can continuously form at least part of the touch gesture.

In an embodiment the rendering of the drawing based on the touch gesture can further comprise determining one or more positions relative to the touch display at which the touch gesture is detected. The drawing can be generated at the one or more positions.

In an embodiment the combining of at least the portion of the first video image frame and the drawing to produce the first combined frame can further comprise replacing a first set of pixels of the first video image frame at the one or more positions with a collection of pixels representing the drawing. A second set of pixels of the first video image frame outside the one or more positions can be composited with the collection of pixels representing the drawing to produce the first combined frame.

In an embodiment one or more selections for one or more drawing options can be received prior to the detecting of the touch gesture via the touch display. The drawing can be based on the one or more selections.

In an embodiment the one or more drawing options can include at least one of a drawing color a drawing tool type or a drawing tool size.

It should be appreciated that many other features applications embodiments and or variations of the disclosed technology will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description. Additional and or alternative implementations of the structures systems non transitory computer readable media and methods described herein can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology.

The figures depict various embodiments of the disclosed technology for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology described herein.

People use computing devices or systems for a wide variety of purposes. Computing devices can provide different kinds of functionality. Users can utilize their computing devices to produce information access information and share information. In some cases people can utilize their computing devices to create media content such as images or videos. For example a user of a computing device can utilize a camera corresponding to or included in the computing device to capture or record a video content item i.e. a video .

Moreover under conventional approaches the user can edit or modify media content such as the video subsequent to the media content being captured or recorded. In one example the user can capture or record the video and then draw on the video. However conventional approaches to capturing or recording the video can be uninteresting boring and not sufficiently interactive. Furthermore under conventional approaches the video and the drawing subsequently made by the user can be stored separately. However in accordance conventional approaches when the video and the separately stored drawing are to be played back additional processing may be required to render the video together with the drawing Accordingly these and other similar types of conventional approaches to producing media content can be boring uninteresting not sufficiently interactive and or inefficient.

Therefore an improved approach can be beneficial for addressing or alleviating various concerns associated with conventional approaches. The disclosed technology can offer a more interesting interactive and efficient approach by combining drawings and videos prior to buffer storage. Various embodiments of the present disclosure can initiate a video capture mode that provides a camera view. A touch gesture can be detected via a touch display. A drawing can be rendered based on the touch gesture. The drawing can be rendered to appear to overlay the camera view. A first video image frame can be acquired based on the camera view. At least a portion of the first video image frame and the drawing can be combined to produce a first combined frame. The drawing can appear to overlay the first video image frame. The first combined frame can be stored in a video buffer. It is contemplated that there can be many variations and or other possibilities.

In some embodiments the pre buffer combination module can be implemented in part or in whole as software hardware or any combination thereof. In general a module as discussed herein can be associated with software hardware or any combination thereof. In some implementations one or more functions tasks and or operations of modules can be carried out or performed by software routines software processes hardware and or any combination thereof. In some cases the pre buffer combination module can be implemented in part or in whole as software running on one or more computing devices or systems such as on a user or client computing device. For example the pre buffer combination module or at least a portion thereof can be implemented as or within an application e.g. app a program or an applet etc. running on a user computing device or a client computing system such as the user device of . In another example the pre buffer combination module or at least a portion thereof can be implemented using one or more computing devices or systems that include one or more servers such as network servers or cloud servers. In some instances the pre buffer combination module can in part or in whole be implemented within or configured to operate in conjunction with a social networking system or service such as the social networking system of . It should be understood that there can be many variations or other possibilities.

In some embodiments the media content module can be configured to facilitate initiating a video capture mode that provides a camera view. For example the media content module can provide an option to enable a mode for capturing or recording video content using a camera of a computing device or system . When the video capture mode is activated or enabled a camera view can be presented on a display element such as a touch display of the computing device. The camera view can show whatever the camera and or the lens of the camera is seeing from the perspective or viewpoint of the camera. In some cases the camera view can correspond to a live camera view presented in or near real time such that the live camera view can be updated in or near real time in accordance with one or more movements incurred by the camera.

The touch gesture module can be configured to facilitate detecting a touch gesture via a touch display which can perform touch sensing. In some implementations the touch gesture module can correspond to include and or operate with the touch display in order to detect identify or otherwise process touch gestures. In one example the camera view can be presented on the touch display and a fingertip touch gesture performed by a user of the computing device can be detected by the touch display. Examples of the touch gesture can include but are not limited to. fingertip strokes fingertip swipes stylus strokes stylus swipes and or other touch or near touch movements.

In one example the touch gesture can be performed while video content is being captured or recorded. In this example the touch gesture can include but is not limited to a first touch gesture portion and a second touch gesture portion. In this example the first touch gesture portion and the second touch gesture portion can continuously form at least part of the touch gesture. The first touch gesture portion can be detected within an allowable time deviation from the acquiring of the first video image frame such as at substantially the same time as when the first video image frame is captured or recorded. The second touch gesture portion can be detected within an allowable time deviation from the acquiring of a second video image frame. This can be repeated with a third touch gesture portion and a third video image frame and so forth. Accordingly in some cases the touch gesture or at least one portion thereof can be detected when video image frames are being acquired.

Moreover the drawing module can be configured to facilitate rendering a drawing based on the touch gesture. The drawing module can facilitate rendering the drawing such that the drawing appears to overlay the camera view. The drawing module will be discussed in more detail below with reference to .

The media content module can further be configured to facilitate acquiring a first video image frame based on the camera view. In some instances while the video capture mode has been initiated or activated the media content module can receive an instruction such as a user command to capture record or otherwise acquire a still frame based on whatever is shown in the camera view. The still frame can correspond to the first video image frame which can be part of a plurality of video image frames used to form or generate a video content item i.e. a video a video file etc. .

In addition the combined frame module can be configured to facilitate combining at least a portion of the first video image frame and the drawing to produce a first combined frame. In the first combined frame the drawing can for example appear to overlay the first video image frame. More details associated with the combined frame module will be provided below with reference to .

The pre buffer combination module can also facilitate storing the first combined frame in the video buffer . The pre buffer combination module can communicate with transmit information to and receive information from the video buffer as shown in the example system . The video buffer can be configure to store at least temporarily one or more video image frames. In some implementations the one or more video image frames can be retrieved or acquired from the video buffer and combined in an appropriate sequence to produce a video content item.

In some instances a second video image frame can be acquired such as by the media content module based on the camera view. The second video image frame can be sequentially subsequent to the first video image frame. At least a portion of the second video image frame and the drawing can be combined such as by the combined framed module to produce a second combined frame. In the second combined frame the drawing can appear to overlay the second video image frame. The pre buffer combination module can facilitate storing the second combined frame in the video buffer.

Furthermore in some implementations the pre buffer combination module can facilitate acquiring from the video buffer the first combined frame and the second combined frame. The pre buffer combination module can also facilitate generating a video content item based on at least the first combined frame and the second combined frame. The generated video content item can present the second combined frame sequentially subsequent to presenting the first combined frame. It should be appreciated that many variations are possible.

The drawing module can utilize the rendering module to render present or display etc. a drawing based on a touch gesture which is detected via a touch display. The rendering module can render the drawing such that the drawing appears to overlay the camera view. In some implementations the rendering of the drawing based on the touch gesture can further comprise determining one or more positions relative to the touch display at which the touch gesture is detected and generating the drawing at the one or more positions.

In one example the rendering module can determine calculate identify or acquire one or more touch display positions at which a user s fingertip touch gesture was performed. The rendering module can generate the drawing at the one or more touch display positions and in accordance with a sequence of how the user s fingertip moves from one touch display position to another . Accordingly the touch gesture can cause the drawing to be rendered based on how and when the touch gesture moves. It should be understood that many variations are possible.

Moreover the drawing options module can be configured to provide one or more drawing options. In some instances the one or more drawing options can include but are not limited to at least one of a drawing color a drawing tool type or a drawing tool size. The drawing options module can also be configured to facilitate receiving one or more selections for the one or more drawing options prior to the detecting of the touch gesture via the touch display. The drawing can be based on the one or more selections. For example if the drawing color is selected to be blue if the drawing tool type is selected to be a virtual brush and if the drawing tool size is selected to correspond to a diameter of ten pixels then the drawing can be rendered as being blue in color as being drawn by the virtual brush and as having a stroke thickness of ten pixels. Again many variations are possible.

The combined frame module can facilitate combining at least a portion of a first video image frame and a drawing to produce a first combined frame as discussed previously. The drawing can appear to overlay the first video image frame. In some embodiments the pixel composition module can facilitate the combining of at least the portion of the first video image frame and the drawing to produce the first combined frame.

As discussed above the drawing can be rendered based on determining one or more positions relative to a touch display at which a touch gesture is detected and generating the drawing at the one or more positions. The pixel composition module can be configured to replace a first set of pixels of the first video image frame at the one or more positions with a collection of pixels representing the drawing. In one example the collection of pixels representing the drawing can be produced during the rendering of the drawing. In this example the collection of pixels representing the drawing can be presented on the touch display at the one or more positions instead of the pixels e.g. the first set of pixels in the first video image frame that were otherwise supposed to be presented at the one or more positions.

Further the pixel composition module can be configured to composite or combine a second set of pixels of the first video image frame outside the one or more positions with the collection of pixels representing the drawing in order to produce the first combined frame. The second set of pixels of the first video image frame can correspond to those pixels in the first video image frame that are not included in the first set of pixels. As such continuing with the previous example the first combined frame can include at the one or more positions the collection of pixels representing the drawing and can elsewhere include the second set of pixels of the first video image frame.

It is contemplated that there can be many variations and other possibilities. For example the pixel composition module can facilitate combining at least a portion of a second video image frame and the drawing to produce a second combined frame. This can be repeated for a third video image frame and a third combined frame and so forth. It is understood that any suitable number of frames can be utilized.

In the example scenario a video capture mode that provides a camera view has been initiated at the computing device . Although the video capture mode has been initiated or activated video content is not yet being captured or recorded. A touch gesture can be detected via a touch display of the computing device . In this example the touch gesture can include at least a first touch gesture portion a second touch gesture portion a third touch gesture portion and a fourth touch gesture portion and so forth.

Moreover in this example scenario a drawing can be rendered based on the touch gesture e.g. touch gesture portions through . As shown in the example scenario the drawing can be rendered to appear to overlay the camera view .

As shown a drawing can be rendered to appear to overlay a camera view . In the example scenario video capturing or recording has been initiated at the computing device . In this example the computing device can acquire a first video image frame based on the camera view . Moreover the computing device can combine at least a portion of the first video image frame and the drawing to produce a first combined frame such that the drawing appears to overlay the first video image frame . The computing device can further store the first combined frame in a video buffer.

Similarly based on the camera view the computing device can acquire a second video image frame a third video image frame a fourth video image frame and so forth. As shown in this example scenario the frames are acquired by the computing device at a rate of one frame per second FPS . The computing device can also produce and store in the video buffer a second combined frame a third combined frame and a fourth combined frame and so forth. Furthermore a video can be generated based on at least the first second third and fourth combined frames. Many variations are possible.

At block the example method can initiate a video capture mode that provides a camera view. At block the example method can detect a touch gesture via a touch display. At block the example method can render a drawing based on the touch gesture. The drawing can be rendered to appear to overlay the camera view. At block the example method can acquire a first video image frame based on the camera view. At block the example method can combine at least a portion of the first video image frame and the drawing to produce a first combined frame. The drawing can appear to overlay the first video image frame. At block the example method can store the first combined frame in a video buffer.

At block the example method can acquire a second video image frame based on the camera view. The second video image frame can be sequentially subsequent to the first video image frame. At block the example method can combine at least a portion of the second video image frame and the drawing to produce a second combined frame. The drawing can appear to overlay the second video image frame. At block the example method can store the second combined frame in the video buffer.

At block the example method can acquire from the video buffer the first combined frame and the second combined frame. At block the example method can generate a video content item based on at least the first combined frame and the second combined frame. The video content item or a playback thereof can present the second combined frame sequentially subsequent to presenting the first combined frame.

It is contemplated that there can be many other uses applications and or variations associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example in some cases user can choose whether or not to opt in to utilize the disclosed technology. The disclosed technology can also ensure that various privacy settings and preferences are maintained. In another example various embodiments of the present disclosure can learn improve and or be refined over time.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices or systems that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a computing device or a device having computer functionality such as a smartphone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a laptop computer a wearable device e.g. a pair of glasses a watch a bracelet etc. a camera an appliance etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 702.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure. The social networking system may be administered managed or controlled by an operator. The operator of the social networking system may be a human being an automated application or a series of applications for managing content regulating policies and collecting usage metrics within the social networking system . Any type of operator may be used.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log and an authorization server . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

In some embodiments the user device can include a pre buffer combination module . The pre buffer combination module can for example be implemented as the pre buffer combination module of . Other features of the pre buffer combination module are discussed herein in connection with the pre buffer combination module .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Moreover the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor . In various implementations a module or modules can be executed by a processor or multiple processors in one or multiple locations such as multiple servers in a parallel processing environment.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments some embodiments various embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

