---

title: Device, system and method for aggregating networks and serving data from those networks to computers
abstract: Disclosed herein, in one example, is a device for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data, including video data, from those networks to a computer for integrating information from various systems in a vehicle, processing that information, and presenting the information to a user in a suitable format. The device for aggregating networks, in another example, is specific to a vehicle and serving data, including video data, from those networks to computers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09387813&OS=09387813&RS=09387813
owner: Road-IQ, LLC
number: 09387813
owner_city: Bellingham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 838 081 filed Mar. 15 2013 which claims priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 613 906 filed Mar. 21 2012 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This disclosure in one example relates generally to an in vehicle computer system and method. More specifically the disclosure relates to a device and method for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data including video data from those networks to computers for integrating information from various systems in a vehicle processing that information and presenting it to consumers of information in a suitable format.

Before beginning a detailed discussion of the apparatus system and method the disclosed features will be outlined rather broadly in order that the detailed description to follow may be better understood and in order that the disclosed apparatus system and method s novel contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are additional features of the disclosure that will be described hereinafter. The term device is occasionally used in this disclosure to abbreviate the rather lengthy term disclosed system and apparatus. 

In this respect before explaining a first example of the disclosure in detail it is to be understood that the disclosed system is not limited in its application to the details of construction or to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The disclosure in one example is capable of other applications and of being practiced and carried out in various ways.

The system in one example provides a device for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to computers for integrating information from various systems in a vehicle processing that information and presenting it to consumers of information in a suitable format. In one example the device uses a highly integrated system on one or more chips to provide computing resources to operate the disclosed apparatus.

To improve connectivity between components the device in one example includes a vehicle bus interface such as the Scantool STN1110 to interact with the vehicle s data bus. To allow for wireless communication the device in one example includes a WiFi chipset that can operate in WiFi Access Point WiFi Client or WiFi Direct mode interchangeably. One such chipset providing the desired functionality is the CSR 6031 chipset. Alternatively the device includes a broadband wireless modem to provide internet connectivity. In one example the device includes a Bluetooth transceiver and or a broadband wireless modem. To determine relative movement and or position of the device the device may include an accelerometer gyroscope and or magnetometer. These components may also be utilized for inertial navigation and three dimensional 3D positioning information. In at least one example the device provides an Ethernet interface for interfacing the aggregated network data to Ethernet based devices in the vehicle. On one example the Ethernet or other connective subsystem is utilized to connect the aggregate network to cameras high speed data busses or other video peripherals. Such cameras may be utilized for example to scan cargo bar codes and quick response QR codes.

Certain embodiments provide a device and method for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to computers wherein the device provides multiple channel analog video capture interface for collecting video data digitizing it compressing it and saving it as a recording and or sending it in real time to another computer such as a tablet computer or video display glasses for viewing or recording. The video processing is done primarily on the CPU that has integrated image processing and video compression for example the Freescale i.MX6 Quad applications processor. A preferred embodiment provides between four and eight channels of video capture capability although other numbers of video channels are possible.

Certain embodiments provide a device and method for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to computers wherein the device provides a high speed data channel via a USB interface that allows another computer such as a tablet computer or phone such as a smart phone to receive multiple channels of compressed video data efficiently. A preferred embodiment provides six channels of video to the computer device for display and or recording.

Certain embodiments provide a device and method for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to computers wherein the device provides user control over how the device captures video from attached cameras such as analog or digital cameras including control of video resolution frame rate scaling and compression format.

Certain embodiments provide a device and method for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to computers wherein the device that is operable to record video from cameras such as analog or digital cameras that are attached to the device onto local or remote storage such as in the tablet computer or another storage device.

Certain embodiments provide a device and method for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to computers wherein the device is operable to supply video captured on one or more attached video cameras such as analog or digital video cameras to augmented reality viewing devices such as Google glasses or to one or more displays having fixed or dynamically reconfigurable displays of video data.

Certain embodiments provide a device and method for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to computers wherein the device supports companion software that runs on a computer device such as a tablet computer. The software provides control for direct manipulation of how a video stream from the device is viewed on the computer including control of size of the viewed image clipping or cropping of the video data and arrangement of the multiple video channels on the display screen. The companion software also enables recording of the video data on the tablet computer for later playback or for transfer to a server for distribution and or storage. The companion software is operable to automatically rearrange the displayed video signals when certain input signals from the vehicle are received by the device. For example the displayed video signals may be arranged in predetermined configurations depending on the operating condition of the vehicle for example depending on receipt of information indicating the speed of the vehicle or that turn signals brakes or a reverse gear has been applied or selected by the vehicle driver.

Certain embodiments provide a tablet computer or other computer device in a passenger compartment of a motor vehicle such as a truck or other vehicle the computer device being connected to a network device such as a video data server also mounted in the vehicle to enable display on the computer device of video data from one or more video cameras mounted on or in the vehicle. The displayed video data may include display of an arrangement of multiple video channels showing multiple views from the cameras to thereby provide the driver with an improved view of vehicles and obstacles for example or to monitor conditions of the vehicle the vehicles load or other video information as may be desired. The multiple video channel data may be displayed as on separate screen portions or one or more channels may be combined into a combined view such as by simulating a wide angle view with multiple cameras. The displayed video may provide the driver with a view not possible with mirrors or the like such as a view of blind spots and so reveal approaching vehicles or road hazards for example. A truck driver or other driver may have a better view of the road or area around the truck.

The arrangement of the displayed video data may be selected depending on the operating conditions of the vehicle for example depending on actions by the driver movement of the vehicle or detection of a vehicle system event. For example activation of a turn signal or turning of the steering wheel by the driver to change lanes or turn a corner may activate or emphasize on the computer device a display of video data from a camera directed in the direction of the vehicle lane change or turn. Backing the vehicle using a reverse gear may result in display of or emphasis of rear facing and side facing video camera data. Forward motion of the vehicle may activate display or emphasize displayed video data directed to the vehicle load as well as an arrangement of displayed video data showing road and traffic conditions around the vehicle. Forward motion by the vehicle may result in the front facing camera data no longer being displayed since the driver is looking in the forward direction while driving and would be better served by a display of video data from the other cameras. The displayed video may show conditions immediately adjacent the vehicle as well as conditions further away from the vehicle. In certain embodiments the display screen shows a representation of the vehicle and the video data is displayed relative to the vehicle representation so that the driver may quickly determine the location and orientation of the video image.

The video data is preferably displayed on the screen in the vehicle passenger compartment after only a very short processing delay. In one example a video processing system is configured to provide processing including compression and frame rate selection of the video signal from camera to display of less than 150 ms. Real time or near real time display of the video data is desired. A system to provide processing with a short processing delay in the display of the video data is important particularly when the vehicle is moving at high speed or an approaching vehicle is moving at high speed. The system provides short video processing delays even when multiple video channels are being displayed at the same time.

The video data obtained by the video cameras may be recorded for viewing at a later time for example by recording the video data on computer readable memory in the tablet computer device. The recorded video data can include recordings of multiple channels of the video data and may include a recording of both video channels that are being displayed and video channels that are not being displayed on the display screen of the tablet computer. For example a front facing camera video stream may be recorded along with other video data while the vehicle is driving forward even if the display device is displaying video from side facing and rear facing cameras but not displaying the front facing video camera data. The recorded data may be used where for example an incident occurs while the vehicle is being driven to better understand the incident. In one example another vehicle may swerve or brake so as to be a primary cause of an accident but that vehicle may have departed the scene possibly with little or no damage. The recorded video may be used to determine that the driver of the other vehicle was at fault.

The system may include one or more video cameras for recording video data of the interior of the vehicle such as a recording of the driver while driving. The computer device such as a tablet computer may have a front facing camera which may be used to record the driver video data. The video channel data including the external and internal video channels may be synchronized with one another. For example the internal video channel may show the driver s response to an incident visible on one or more external video channels.

In addition to recording the video the vehicle system data may be recorded as well and is preferably synchronized with the video data either in real time or at a later time. For example turn signals brake application gear selection and engine RPM data may be recorded along with data from other sensors in the vehicle. The recorded data may be used to determine when the vehicle s brakes were applied relative to an incident that appears in the video data of the camera directed to the road for example. Selected events in the vehicle systems may trigger marking of the video signal for example hard braking by the driver may be marked on the recorded video channel data.

The recorded video data may also be used to determine if the driver of a vehicle made a delivery or pickup for example. A garbage truck video may show that a refuse container had not been placed at the curb when the truck went by to answer a question as to whether a pickup was missed. The video data may be used to determine if the driver made a pre drive inspection of the vehicle load. The link between the computer device and the vehicle systems may enable the driver to test the brake lights or other vehicle systems remotely while walking around the vehicle using the computer device in wireless mode.

In an example of the system the network device includes connectors and video processing capability for connecting six or more cameras that are mounted about the vehicle and for feeding the compressed video data to the tablet computer for display and for recording. The tablet computer may be used by the driver for other uses such as for playing music or when not driving for entering information into work records browsing the internet checking email or other computer tasks.

In order to allow various connectivity peripherals to be easily added to the system the device in one example provides a MiniPCIe expansion slot.

To maintain a properly functioning aggregate network it is important in certain embodiments that the device has ample RAM and Flash Memory to run common embedded operating system and application software as well as store at least 2 GB of data. It is also important in many applications that the device is capable of managing its power consumption. This functionality is important in some applications when the vehicle s power gets low so that the device can sustain itself for days using an internal battery.

It has also proven to be useful in some applications to provide a system wherein the device can switch between a WiFi Client and a WiFi Access Point mode depending on the context in which it is being operated. Connectivity may also be provided by utilizing a Web Server and WebSockets capable of supporting HTML5 CSS3 JS Web Applications on any HTML5 compatible smart devices. In one example the device includes an installable service provider software module that embodies the core business logic and presents the user interface for that software through HTML5 or related web technologies for any given owner s use of the device.

In one example the device has a complete network stack with firewall dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP domain name system DNS network address translation NAT and routing features.

In some examples the system has been configured such that the device can report collected data to back end servers via multiple connectivity paths depending on what is available and the lowest cost of data transport available to the device to reach the back end server.

In certain embodiments a device is provided for aggregating networks in a vehicle and serving data from those networks to remote computers wherein the device includes external connectors to interface with the power vehicle antennas networks and peripherals that can be attached to the box.

In one example the system may further comprise a plurality of medical probe and sensor interfaces. Such components may be selected from the group consisting of ultrasound temperature sensor blood pressure sensor pulse oximeter glucose sensor and electrocardiogram EKG . A software application capable of interpreting and processing the probe or sensor interface data may also be utilized.

The disclosed apparatus may be embodied in the form illustrated in the accompanying drawings attention being called to the fact however that the drawings are illustrative of some examples and that changes may be made in the specific construction illustrated and described within the scope of this application.

Turning now descriptively to the drawings in which similar reference characters denote similar elements throughout the several views the figures illustrate three main components although other components and variants of these components could also be utilized. The first component in one example is a motherboard containing the electronics embodying the vehicle computer system. The second component is software which implements the instructions for the electronics enabling the functionality described herein. The third component in this example is a case to protect the motherboard and to provide a method of mounting the device in a vehicle.

In one example of the disclosed system a case or housing is provided. The case contains and protects the motherboard see FIG. and other electronic components. The motherboard which has software loaded on it includes circuitry and memory with software. The case protects the motherboard from damage and provides a way for the vehicle computer system to be mounted in the vehicle.

The enclosure provides appropriate containment protection mounting and possibly heat dissipation for the motherboard for the in vehicle computer system. The enclosure may be sized according to the motherboard and the features included on the motherboard . The enclosure contains supports that the motherboard rests on and contains the motherboard securely when the enclosure is fully assembled. The enclosure should be created from material such as 141 Polycarbonate that is suitable for the automotive environment.

Protruding from the case are the various connectors the system utilizes for the purpose of integrating with various systems and peripherals in the vehicle. The Vehicle Harness Connector provides a connection point to the vehicle s power supply diagnostics bus and permits interfacing with vehicle systems that must be controlled by relay. Vehicle Harness Connector encapsulates Vehicle Bus or Diagnostic Interface Vehicle Start Signal Turn Signals Reverse Signal Windows Up Down Signals and Vehicle Battery Connection . The universal serial bus USB Port is present to allow connection to a personal computer PC e.g. for receiving a software update or to attach USB peripherals such as a mass storage device or sensors. The Ethernet Port provides a connection to in vehicle or on vehicle Ethernet devices such as IP cameras etc. The Antenna Jack connectors may be utilized for connecting various wireless communications structures antennas to the device in the event that the device does not have an antenna built into the motherboard . Status Indicators are provided in some examples for diagnosing problems with the device in the event of malfunction of any component of the device or peripherals. A Camera Input is also provided to allow the connection of one or more Analog Cameras to the motherboard for digitization of the analog video.

In the event that an Ingress Protection IP rated case requiring complete or nearly complete air tight and moisture tight features is required there may not be enough thermal dissipation from the motherboard to the environment. In this event portions of the case may be made from aluminum or other sufficiently heat conducting material to facilitate thermal conduction. In most examples it will be desired to utilize a material that is also rugged enough for the environment that the device will be deployed in. A thermal paste or equivalent can be used to thermally bond the central processing unit CPU see to the Case to dissipate that heat. Heat sinks or equivalents may also be employed.

In one example with reference to the motherboard may contain all of the electronics necessary for the vehicle computer system to run the software element to perform the functions enumerated herein.

The motherboard contains all of the circuitry for the in vehicle computer system. At the heart of the motherboard is a System on Chip CPU such as the CSR Atlas V or Freescale i.MX6 Quad chips . This chip in one example provides the interfaces for all of the other chips that make up the system. The Memory may be segmented into both random access memory RAM and Flash memory to provide data storage or memory for system operation along with storage for software and data. The WiFi System chipset typically connects via a secure digital input output SDIO such as the CSR 6031 multi channel input multiplexer and provides WiFi Client WiFi Access Point and WiFi Direct functionality depending on the mode in which it is operating. This allows the device to serve both as an access point to serve data to devices as a WiFi client to connect to other WiFi Access Points or as a peer in a WiFi direct network.

The Sensors may include an Accelerometer Gyroscope Magnetometer Battery Voltage Meter Thermometer Input Voltage Meter and General Purpose Input Output Sensor GPIO s . The sensors may also include a braking sensor gear selector sensor or other vehicle system sensor operator activity sensor or operating condition sensor. A GPS receiver may also be provided. These sensors are typically connected via Inter Integrated Circuit I2C on the CPU or are integrated into the CPU . The Battery Management Subsystem controls the charging of an optional battery and in one example allows the system to continue running when Vehicle Power has been removed. The Battery Management Subsystem in one example allows for the device to detect and report power loss and fully operate apart from being attached to vehicle power for as long as the battery is adequately charged. It should also be understood that the General Purpose I O is used to connect to discrete signal systems such as vehicle reverse indicator vehicle brake light vehicle turn signal vehicle door pin switches to sense the state of such signals. The GPIO can also drive relays to turn power to components on and off in the vehicle.

The Vehicle Interface in one example provides a standard interface for the Society of Automotive Engineers SAE On Board Diagnostics OBD II and SAE J1939 vehicle bus interface. It also works with standard Controller Area Network CAN buses. This interface can be further enhanced to support other serial bus interfaces. The vehicle interface in one example is based on a chip like the OBD Solutions STN1110 or the ELM Electronics ELM327. The chip connects to the CPU via a high speed Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART .

The Global Positioning System Receiver GPS is either a discrete module provided by a GPS vendor like uBlox or CSR. The term GPS used herein to indicate a system for receiving an external surface or orbitally originating wireless signal and calculating a position relative to the origin of those same signals such as a GPS Satellite . In one example the CPU provides for a built in GPS like the CSR Atlas V and in this example the GPS may only be the additional electronics necessary to interface to the antenna. This GPS interfaces to the CPU via a UART or baseband interface. In another example the GPS may actually reside as a card in the MiniPCIe socket or integrated into the modem that is inserted into the MiniPCIe socket.

The Ethernet interface provides a method for attaching the motherboard to other Ethernet devices such as one or more video cameras or Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11p radio or other custom network appliances. The Ethernet interface may be used to connect to a computer device. In one example the Ethernet interface connects to the CPU via Secure Digital Input Output SDIO or Security Parameter Index SPI .

The Modem Interface in one example is comprised of three subcomponents including a USB connector a Miniature Peripheral Component Interconnect MiniPCIe connector that is connected to the USB connector and a modem module that inserts into the MiniPCIe connector. The Modem Interface provides access to wireless networks including for example a cellular 3G 4G network or other cellular network Bluetooth Networks Satellite Networks or custom radio interfaces on licensed frequencies. The USB component of the Modem Interface in one example is separately utilized to allow other USB devices to be attached to the motherboard . The interface may comprise a USB connector serial connector parallel connector RCA connector set a Lightning connector such as used for Apple brand tablet computers FireWire connector or other connector for connection to the computer device and or for connection to an external storage device or other peripheral device.

The design of the motherboard allows various subsystems to not have their parts populated when the motherboard is built. The WiFi System Sensors Vehicle Interface Battery portion of Battery Management the Modem Interface the Ethernet and the GPS can all be depopulated in any permutation and the remaining subsystems will work properly. One notable combination when this depopulation system may be used is when the Modem Interface is populated with a modem that has a built in GPS or Assisted GPS AGPS that received signals from GPS Satellites . In these cases a customer may only want to use the GPS on the modem to save the cost and or complexity of the dedicated GPS . A common cost reduced configuration of the Motherboard includes only subcomponents such as CPU WiFi System Vehicle Interface Battery Management minus the actual battery and Memory .

To support video capture the motherboard may include a video analog to digital conversion chip such as a TW6869 chip from Intersil that allows in certain embodiments 4 to 8 cameras to be connected to the mother board. The conversion chip may connect to the System on Chip CPU via a PCIe interface. Alternate embodiments may connect the video analog to digital conversion chip from other manufacturers to a MIPI CSI2 interface instead of the PCIe interface. Additionally the System on Chip CPU of a preferred embodiment supports color space conversation features and H.264 compression features so that digital video data from the video analog to digital conversion chip can be compressed distributed and then presented on an attached computer system or recorded on a persistent storage device ether on the motherboard attached to an expansion port on the motherboard or on an attached computer system using the storage on a tablet computer for instance .

The Video Capture Subsystem see of certain embodiments includes both a software component and a hardware component in the system which performs the functions necessary complete the video capture tasks enumerated in this application. The video capture subsystem may be connected to one or to a plurality of video cameras including analog video cameras and or digital video cameras. The cameras may be mounted on the vehicle such as on the vehicle body and or on or in vehicle mirrors or other accessories or components. The cameras may be directed forward rearward to the left side and to the right side of the vehicle. The cameras may include cameras directed to blind spots in the vehicle mirror system. The cameras may include one or more cameras directed toward the vehicle load and or to vehicle components or systems. The cameras may be directed into the vehicle or mounted within the vehicle such as within the passenger compartment of the vehicle.

The Video Capture Subsystem of certain embodiments is comprised of two main component systems. The first component is a Video Encoding Unit and the second component is the Computer Device such as a tablet computer smart phone or other computer device. Video is captured and encoded by the Video Encoding Unit is processed and then either stored in a Data File on the video encoding unit or sent over a network connection via a USB Link or a WiFi Link . In one embodiment the processed video data may be sent over an Ethernet link see .

As shown in the Computer Tablet Device then receives the video data e.g. via the USB link or WiFi link decodes the video data and either records the video data to a data file and or presents at least some channels of the video data on the display .

The time that it takes from the real life event detected by the cameras to the time the video representation of that event appears on the display is referred to as the video lag. Because every 10 ms of video lag represents approximately 10 inches of movement in a vehicle travelling 60 mph the reduction of video lag is imperative in certain embodiments. To reduce video lag in the system processing of the video is broken down into several short steps that can be performed concurrently to reduce the video processing steps into a pipeline that reduces latency.

In certain embodiments raw analog video data for example in an NTSC format is sent from multiple cameras which may be 4 to 8 cameras for example to the TW6869 video capture chip for capturing the video signals. The TW6869 video capture chip directs its output to a buffer that is read into the IMX6 s IPU Image processing unit for color space conversion which then directs its color space output via RAM into the iMX6 s VPU Video processing unit for video compression. This process is controlled by a master driver e.g. TW6869 Driver which coordinates the IPUv3 Driver for image processing and the VPU Driver for video processing. Once the video is output from the VPU into RAM it is picked up by a video frame pump that broadcasts the video data over the network stack via a UDP video transport . It may also be sent to the file system by a frame streamer so that the video data frames are recorded into a data file .

Once the video frame data has been inserted in the network stack via the UDP Video Transport it is then sent out over a network connection such as Ethernet or WiFi via the WiFi Link or the Ethernet Link or the video data is packed up packetized in a USB transport and sent over USB via the USB Link to the Computer Tablet Device . Once the video data is received by the Computer Tablet Device the video data proceeds through the USB Function Device Driver and then through the USB Transport Driver or the video data arrives through the Ethernet or WiFi . Next the data is presented via the Network Stack and then made available via the UDP Transport .

Once the video is available via the UDP Transport it may be picked up by the GStreamer UDP Plugin for configuring the multimedia framework protocol passed to the RTP Depayload for removal of the payload data from the headers in the RTP real time transport protocol stream then to the H.264 Parser for parsing of the data followed by the Decode H.264 154 for decoding of the data then to the Color Space Conversion component for generation of the color channel signals then the Video Sink and finally sent to OpenGL API for graphical display causing the video to appear on the display . Additionally or alternatively the video could be recorded through a similar path which includes GStreamer UDP Plugin RTP Depayload and H.264 Parser corresponding with items and respectively . However instead of going through Decode H.264 154 the video data is passed through a Queue and then to an H.264 to MP4 converter for conversion of the video data into an MP4 file which is sent to the file system for storage where it is stored as a data file .

The video data is thereby displayed to the driver as needed and is stored for later retrieval. The stored data may be recorded as first in first out FIFO data so that the more recent data replaces older data. A triggering event in the vehicle systems such as a hard braking action may mark a video segment for ready reference and may mark a video segment for more permanent storage.

The software provides the instructions for the processor and the Motherboard to enable the processor to perform the tasks enumerated in this application.

The core operating system for certain embodiments in one example is the MICROSOFT WINDOWS CE 6 operating system. In other examples the core operating system may be QNX LINUX or ANDROID operating system software. At the lowest level of the Operating System Software and Device Drivers is the Hardware Abstraction Layer . This Hardware Abstraction Layer contains components for operating the hardware during boot time during interrupt handling during lowest power operating modes and during critical system failures. While this Hardware Abstraction Layer interacts with the operating system the Hardware Abstraction Layer may not require the operating system in order to perform its functions. The Hardware Abstraction Layer in one example is a key part of fault tolerance and recovery in the system. In one example the Hardware Abstraction Layer includes system timekeeping power management CPU configuration event logging and low level diagnostics for post failure analysis. This Hardware Abstraction Layer also utilizes a formal Application Programming Interface API which is exposed to Device Drivers for interrupt handling.

Device Drivers in one example of the system handle all the various devices in the system including physical devices and virtual devices. In this layer the driver interfaces for Sensors Vehicle Interface Ethernet and GPS exist. The Power Handler in one example manages power and battery charging in the system. The Power Handler may also be responsible for determining the current power state of the system and for adjusting the current power state as necessary relative to the power state that the application software may be requesting. The Power Handler may also be responsible for addressing emergent situations such as sudden Vehicle Power loss battery failure and temperature conditions.

The Over the Air Update Support operates alongside the components in the Operating System Software and Device Drivers to facilitate the secure download installation and rollback of software updates for the in vehicle computer system and the devices attached to it such as the Vehicle Interface or the Modem Interface . The Over the Air Update Support may be capable of running the Motherboard hardware to facilitate upgrade of the Operating System Software and Device Drivers .

The Modem Handler in one example is a software stack for operating various 3G or 4G cellular modems that connect via the Modem Interface to the device. The Modem Handler detects the type of modem installed and configures itself to run in the mode necessary to operate the modem correctly.

The WiFi Handler in one example is a software stack and API that is capable of running the WiFi System in WiFi Client WiFi Access Point or WiFi Direct mode depending on the requests of the Application Software . The WiFi Handler may automatically configure most WiFi parameters requiring that the Application Software only provide a security key and Service Set Identification SSID to create a connection.

The Video Capture component is responsible in certain embodiments for implementing the Video Encoding Unit stack described in Video Capture Subsystem . The Video Capture includes control API s that are operable for turning the video on and off choosing cameras configuring frame rates and scaling.

The video display may be dynamically changed to show the video information from a single camera or from multiple cameras. The video display is not limited to certain pre defined monitor formats and or orientations but rather can be programmatically changed to display in any orientation any combination of cameras in any screen layout deemed desirable with flexible scaling cropping and positioning of the on screen images.

The video display may include labels shown with the video data to indicate to the user the location and orientation of the different camera views. The labels may be text or representative symbols. The labels may be used at every occasion while using the video system or the labels may be turned on and off depending on the needs of the user.

The display portion of the tablet computer or other computer device may show information and output data from the sensors on or about the vehicle. For example the display may show the accelerometer output the turn signal indicator the braking sensor or other sensor information on the screen of the tablet computer. The display may indicate the status of the cameras so that a camera that has failed may be detected and serviced even if the failed camera is one that would not be actively displaying video data to the user during a vehicle operating condition. For example the driver may determine from the status indicator that the right side camera is not operating before the driver discovers that the camera has failed during a lane change maneuver.

In certain embodiments the display includes a representation of the vehicle such as a vertical bar or other visual element to represent a truck or other vehicle. Video data from the video cameras is displayed at locations relative to the representation to enable the user to quickly determine a camera view orientation and direction that thereby see a near real time view of the area surrounding the vehicle as well as views to the horizon and possibly views of and or within the vehicle.

The recorded video can be played back on the computer device so that the user may view video of an event. The displayed recorded video may be presented in the same format and with the same number of channels as displayed to the driver when the video stream was being obtained or other video channels may be displayed including display of all video channels either simultaneously or sequentially.

To support the flexible configuration of the Motherboard the Operating System Software and Device Drivers may provide device detection during initialization. In this example if a peripheral device sensor etc. is not present the device driver is not loaded for that peripheral device. If the peripheral device is present the associated driver is loaded. Additional device drivers could be added to this configuration to support additional devices being supported via USB on the Modem Interface or additional Sensors .

The software utilizes a user interface and may perform the business logic required for any given deployment of the disclosed system and device.

The Application Software may comprise an API layer that provides a structured method for Application Software to access complex data. The Application Software in one example also comprises a server layer that collects the data from the API layer. Primarily this server layer is made up of the WebSockets and the Web Server . In one example the Application Software is provided as a Web Application or a Service Provider Application resident on the motherboard to eliminate the need for software to be installed on the remote computing device.

The Vehicle Bus API in one example collects data from the Device Drivers which share data with the Vehicle Interface and interprets the data to a format that can be accepted by the Web Sockets . The Vehicle Bus API can also accept data from the WebSockets validate the legitimacy of the data and then communicate the data to the Device Drivers which then gets communicated to the Vehicle Interface such that components on the Vehicle Bus can be controlled through the HTML5 applications. Examples of components which may be controlled in this manner include vehicle headlamps door locks and engine start.

The Sensor API in one example collects data from the Device Drivers which exchange data with the Sensors and interprets the data into a form that can be accepted by the WebSockets . The Sensor API in one example can also accept data from the WebSockets validate the legitimacy of the data and then communicate the interpreted data to the Device Drivers . The data may then be communicated to the Sensors .

The Location API in one example collects data from the Device Drivers which communicates with the GPS and interprets the data into a form that can be accepted by the WebSockets . The Location API can also take data from the WebSockets validate the legitimacy of the data and then communicate the interpreted data to the Device Drivers . The data may then be communicated to the GPS .

The Short Term Data Store is used by the following components Device Drivers Power Handler Over the Air Update Modem Handler WiFi Handler Vehicle Bus API Sensor API Service Provider Application and Location API to keep a copy of the last reported value of any particular data element. This copy of the last known good value can then be communicated by WebSockets or directly accessed by the Service Provider Application .

The WebSockets in one example are used to publish data to HTML5 Web Applications communicated by the Web Server or to publish data to the Service Provider Application . The WebSockets may also be used by HTML5 Web Applications or Service Provider Application to send data to various subsystems but does not provide uncontrolled access to those subsystems. The WebSocket layer provides data collected by the device in a normalized format using text naming conventions to allow a standardized way to access available data on the device without regard to the data s actual origin. The WebSockets can also provide an input output path to devices connected to the Modem Interface via the Modem Handler the Ethernet via the Device Drivers or the WiFi System via the WiFi Handler . Power Management can also be performed in limited ways with WebSockets through the Power Handler .

The Web Server may be a web server that is compliant with internet standards and also supports ISAPI extensions. The Web Server in one form is capable of meeting the requirements for full HTML5 CSS3 JavaScript support for WebApps. The Web Server communicates files to a requestor on the network connected to the Motherboard via WiFi System Ethernet or Modem Interface .

The Web Application may be hosted by the Web Server . In one form the Web Application is delivered to the requesting device typically a portable smart device which is connected via WiFi System . This application may implement the user interface to the in vehicle computer system. One or more Web Applications can be present on the system and one or more requesting device s can be supported at a time. A very powerful feature of Web Applications is that such Web Applications operate across multiple platforms which helps eliminate compatibility problems and device version problems.

The Service Provider Application may implement the business logic of the system to provide functionality such as connecting to back end servers synthesizing or processing data from the various interfaces and then reporting the processed data logging the processed data or trigging an event from processed or raw data. A typical example would be for Automatic Vehicle Location system wherein the Service Provider Application would track the location of the vehicle by using the Location API processing that information into a form that a remote server may request and then reporting the location of the vehicle via the Modem Handler or equivalent subsystem. In one example the Service Provider Application would repeat location system routing on a repeating schedule such as for example every 5 minutes. In one form the locating and reporting subsystem may be disabled for example when the vehicle was turned off. In other examples the reporting subsystem may operate on an interactive schedule such as when the vehicle is not operating in which case the reporting subsystem would report the vehicle location for example every hour.

A number of Web Applications or varying degrees of sophistication of the Service Provider Application can be created. In some examples more than one Service Provider Application may be present. In addition the Service Provider Application may be written in a programming language supported by the target operating system. Also the Service Provider Application can access varying Operating System API s directly instead of using WebSockets if a data element or service not provided by WebSockets is necessary.

Further smart devices that are connected via WiFi System Ethernet Interface or the Modem Interface may comprise dedicated applications on them that directly use the WebSockets interface without using a Web Application .

The Application Software is stored in the Persistent Storage such as Flash Memory of the device and hosted by the Operating System Software Services and Device Drivers . Each of the Application Software Operating System Software and Device Drivers are installed on the Motherboard which is inserted in the Case or Enclosure . A remote computer or local computer may then access the Application Software remotely and display an output of the data to the user or the data may be accessed by a local computer such as a tablet computer or smart phone or other computer device. The remote computer may also comprise a user input peripheral such as a touch screen keyboard mouse etc. for navigating the Application Software selecting and manipulating the data display and inputting commands and data. The computer device may include a portable computer device stationary computer device to which the system is connected while the vehicle is stationary desktop computer kiosk computer laptop computer netbook computer notebook computer workstation computer server computer smart phone PDA e reader device or other computer device. Connections between the computer and the system may include an internet connection network connection WAN LAN wireless connection cellular connection or other wired or wireless connection.

Reference is made to which shows details of how the software of one example is arranged from a logic block perspective. Additionally reference is made to to understand how data flows through the various software subsystems to and from the Application Software .

1 A Kiosk connectivity box that provides the CPU Battery Management Modem Interface and Ethernet Subsystem with associated Operating System And Device Drivers with application software necessary to maintain a network connection if faults occur. Each of these components may be conveniently provided in one Enclosure .

2 A Vending Machine Connectivity Box that provides the CPU Battery Management Modem Interface and CAN interface from the Vehicle Interface with associated Operating System and Device Drivers and Service Provider Application . In this example the Service Provider Application may provide an internet connection to the vending machine for clearing credit card transactions and may communicate with the vending machines hardware over CAN. Again each of these components may be conveniently provided in one Enclosure .

3 An in vehicle WiFi Access Point that includes CPU WiFi System Battery Management Modem Interface the Operating System Software and Device Drivers to function as a wireless access point. In one example all of these components are provided within one convenient Enclosure .

4 A medical probe wireless docking station that provides the CPU Battery Management WiFi System and CAN interface from the Vehicle Interface with associated Operating System and Device Drivers and Service Provider Application that allows medical probes to be plugged in to the CAN or USB bus interface and have the probe data processed by the Service Provider Application and made visible through a user interface presented via HTML5 and WebSockets to smart devices that attach via WiFi. This docking station in one example communicates securely with the medical data server via WiFi. In one example patient medical data is stored on the secure medical data server rather than on the smart device.

Reference is made to for a visual illustration of the operation of the disclosed system and device in one example.

The information hub brings together unrelated systems on the vehicle into a format that can be used for information entertainment diagnostics data collection and control. Each unrelated subsystem is detailed below.

Through the vehicle bus interface data is collected from various devices on the vehicle data bus such as the Engine Control Unit the Tire Pressure Monitor and the climate control unit . The vehicle bus interface in one example is connected via the Vehicle Harness Connector to the Vehicle Interface . The Vehicle Interface is operated by the Device Drivers which in turn exposes the information from the devices on the Vehicle Data Bus via the Vehicle Bus API . The Vehicle Bus API then publishes the information through the Short Term Data Store . Here the data is normalized so that the WebSockets can receive and interpret the data. If a remote computing device such as a tablet computer or smart phone is attached via WiFi System or WiFi System or by a wired connection to the information hub and running a Web Application the WebSockets may then provide the information from the Short Term Data Store to the Web Application .

Through the Ethernet Interface and Ethernet Network one or more Ethernet devices and may be connected to the Information Hub . In this embodiment a Dedicated Short Range Communication Unit supporting 802.11p is connected to an Ethernet hub . Also an Ethernet video server may be connected to the Ethernet hub . Several cameras may be connected to the Ethernet hub via the Ethernet Video Server such as for example Left Rear View Camera Front View Camera Rear Facing Camera and Right Rear View Camera .

The DSRC 802.11p unit or equivalent routes specialized data to and from other vehicles and Department of Transportation Road Side Unit . In one example the traffic data is communicated by in the Service Provider Application Video Encoding Unit or Web Application on a computing device such as smart phone or tablet computer . In one example the DSRC 802.11p unit or equivalent can route regular network traffic such as Web Applications from the Information Hub through the Ethernet Interface which is handled by the network device drivers and passed to other devices communicating with the DSRC 802.11p unit .

The Ethernet video server in one example streams communicates video over the Ethernet to the Information Hub through the Ethernet Hub . This video stream may then be received by the Device Drivers . The Device Drivers operate the network and the video stream may then be routed to any Web Application that is requesting the video stream. An alternate example would be to integrate the video server onto the motherboard for direct video connection to the device as described in Video Subsystem . Another alternate example provides IP Cameras which integrate the camera into the video server and plug directly into the Ethernet Hub .

The Video Subsystem in one example streams video from for example 4 to 8 cameras although other numbers of cameras are also possible over the USB the WiFi Ethernet or even over the Cellular Link to a Phone Tablet Access Point or Server . This may be a distinctly different subsystem from Ethernet Video Server .

The modem handler in one example shares the modem interface connection to the 3G 4G network or equivalent via the Modem Antenna Jack with any Application Software wishing to send data outside the internal network of the Information Hub . The Modem Handler also allows network traffic from the WiFi System or Ethernet Network to be sent out the Modem Interface using Network Address Translation technology in the Core Operating System . Through the Modem Interface data can be sent to the cellular network then if desired to the Internet and finally to an off board server . The Information Hub on behalf of the Service Provider Application or a Web Application in one example can also query an Off Board Server to query instructions for actions that the application software should follow. Communications between the Information Hub and Off Board Server may include Over the Air Update Support as well. Lastly Web Applications may be accessed remotely over the Internet through the Cellular Network through the Modem Interface through the Modem Handler to the Device Drivers to the Web Server . In one example the Modem Interface may also have GPS information programmed thereon via AGPS or some other mechanism. This global position information in one example can be communicated via the Location API or by using the GPS built into the motherboard .

In Access Point mode WiFi Access Point serves as a wireless access point to which to attach any WiFi compliant device such as a tablet computer or smart phone . This mode provides the attached devices with access to the Web Applications Video Encoding Unit the Internet or devices on the Ethernet for example the Dedicated Short Range Communications DSRC or Ethernet Video Server . This Access Point Mode also allows devices to access other devices attached to WiFi.

In Client Mode the WiFi System connects to nearby Access Points to which the WiFi System is authorized to be connected. This client Mode allows the Service Provider Application to upload and download information data over a WiFi System or may also provide a connection to the Internet through the Access Point . This system in one example would be ideal for a fleet yard where vehicles were parked allowing them to cost effectively communicate information collected and to download software updates for example via Over The Air Update Support .

In WiFi Direct Mode the WiFi system can provide wireless access point functions for a WiFi Direct compliant device such as a tablet computer while also connecting to and sharing data with other WiFi devices such as WiFi Displays WiFi Speakers or other WiFi Access Points .

Devices connected to the WiFi system in one example can route network traffic across Ethernet connected devices and Modem Interface connected systems. WiFi system in one example utilizes radio signals sent through the WiFi Antenna Jack or an integrated antenna in WiFi .

The GPS subsystem in one example reports information through the Device Drivers and up to the Location API . The GPS data in one example is then normalized and posted to the Short Term Data Store where the normalized data is provided to WebSockets and ultimately accepted by either a Web Application or Service Provider Application . GPS receives GPS data through GPS Antenna Jack .

The Sensors interface collects a number of different types of sensors together under a single interface the Sensor API . These sensors include an Accelerometer Gyroscope Magnetometer Battery Voltage Input Voltage Internal Temperature Battery Temperature General Purpose Output General Purpose Input. This information can be used to determine what is going on with the vehicle from an inertial standpoint. It can also be used to determine if the operating conditions are within specification or not. Systems or mechanisms may also be provided for user direct input so as to log health sleep stops fueling etc. such as by way of a touchscreen keyboard mouse or other user input terminal.

The Power Handler interface allows for detailed control of the power usage of the device. In one example each major block of the Motherboard can be powered on off and variants thereof using this Power Handler interface. Power conditions in one example are communicated to the Power Handler using the Short Term Data Store and made available via WebSockets or through the Operating System API s directly.

In the disclosed system and device described herein several scenarios can take place including but not limited to 

A remote and portable computing device such as a tablet computer or smart phone may be connected via WiFi System or WiFi system to for example the Information Hub . The portable computing devices in one example access the Web Server which then communicates a Web Application to the remote computing device. The Web Application then displays instrumentation for the vehicle on a display screen of the remote computing device. The Web Application communicates with the WebSockets to retrieve data for instrumentation and communicate this data to the display screen. The WebSockets in one example queries the Short Term Data Store which keeps the last reported values of the data to be used for the instrumentation. The Vehicle Interface in one example receives data from the Vehicle Data Bus passes the data to the Device Drivers which then passes the data to the Vehicle Bus API for processing decomposition . The data may then be reported to the Short Term Data Store to be communicated to the WebSockets when the value is requested. The Service Provider Application may be configured to detect a diagnostic trouble code communicated by the Vehicle Bus API and may upon such detection generate a report alert to send to a fleet management server. The report may be routed through the Network Device Drivers through to the Modem Handler through the cellular network to the Internet and further communicated to the fleet server . The fleet server may request information regarding the vehicle global position and inertial data movement . The Service Provider Application may also be configured to call the Location API and Sensor API to collect the required information data . The information is then communicated in one example via the Modem Interface to the server .

In one example when the vehicle enters the fleet yard and it is turned off the Service Provider Application may be configured to sense the need to turn off the information hub and may call the Power Handler to turn off at least a portion of the information hub . The Service Provider Application may then signal the relay to turn off the power to one or more of the devices on the Ethernet which may include the DSRC 802.11p 65 chip Ethernet Hub and or Ethernet Video Server . The WiFi System may then be switched from Access Point Mode to Client Mode and it connects to the Access Point in the fleet depot area.

Complete diagnostic information may be collected using the Vehicle Bus API by the Service Provider Application and sent to the server via the WiFi system Access Point connection. The unit then fully powers off via the Power Handler .

Vehicle component control information can be requested by the HTML5 application via WebSockets. The WebSockets may then request the Service Provider Application to send control codes across the Vehicle Bus API to interact with components in the vehicle such as door locks compartment or driving lights or engine control ignition . Alternatively the Service Provider Application may send control codes across the Ethernet or WiFi to other devices to control these or equivalent components.

In at least one example vehicle data and medical data may be received and aggregated by a single device or system. Such a combination has particular application to ambulances not only ground but air and water as well where vehicle data and patient data may be collected.

Referring to the video data from vehicle mounted cameras may be shown on a tablet computer or other display device mounted in the vehicle within view of the driver. The vehicle of is a truck or recreational vehicle RV having four cameras that are directed to provide views of the area surrounding the vehicle and include a front facing camera a rear facing camera a driver side facing camera and a passenger side facing camera. The cameras may be mourned on the body of the vehicle within the vehicle body within mirror assemblies or at other parts of the vehicle. The tablet computer or other computer device displays the video signal of several of the cameras at the same time in a layout on the display screen. The user may select from a number of possible screen layouts or the screen layouts may be preprogrammed into the tablet computer or other computer device.

If the user selects the truck and RV screen layouts the computer device determines whether external power is supplied to the computer device at . The computer device accesses tablet applications at . If external power is connected to the computer device at an inquiry is made as to whether the computer device is mounted in a cradle such as a docking station in the vehicle at . The computer device generates a display as shown at that displays the video of the front facing camera across the top of the screen the video of the rear facing camera across the bottom of the screen the driver side camera video at the middle left portion of the screen and the passenger side camera video at the middle right portion of the screen. The video layout is thus arranged as if the vehicle is in the middle of the screen with the views of the surrounding road and area arranged as described. This layout is displayed when the camera device is not connected to external power nor cradled in the docking station.

If external power is connected and the computer device is docked the system determines at whether the turn signal of the vehicle has been activated. If so the system determines which turn signal is activated at . If the right turn signal is active the layout of the video display is changed to a display to provide a large view of the right side or passenger side camera and a smaller view of the rear camera. The front facing and driver side camera signals are not shown. If the left turn signal is active the video display is changed to a display which provides a large view of the driver side camera video signal and a small view of the rear camera video. The driver is thereby provided with an enhanced view of the side to which the vehicle is turning or of the lane into which the vehicle is changing lanes.

If the turn signal is not on at the system determines at if the vehicle is traveling at speed. For example a 5 mph threshold may be provided. For a detected vehicle speed over 5 mph in this example the display layout is selected which has large views of the driver side video and passenger side video as well as a large view of the rear facing video for example by dividing the screen approximately into thirds with the driver side to the left and passenger side view to the right. No front view video is shown.

If it is determined at that the vehicle has less than 5 mph of forward motion a determination is made at as to whether the vehicle is in reverse. If so the display layout is shown which has eliminated the front view video maintains the small driver side and passenger side views in a position at the top of the display and shows a large rear view video. If the system determines that the vehicle is not in reverse at and is not moving more than 5 mph the display layout is shown. This layout corresponds to the layout with one third of the view being the front facing camera one third being the rear facing camera and the middle third being split between the driver side and passenger side cameras. Of course it is possible for more or fewer cameras to be provided on a truck or RV and for other display layouts to be provided.

Together provide a set of display layouts for use on a bus shuttle trolley or other passenger carrying vehicle. A bus selection is made by the user at . Tablet applications are accessed at . If external power is not supplied at or the tablet computer device is not cradled in docking station at the display layout is shown. One third of the view is the front facing camera one third is the rear facing camera and the middle third is split between the driver side and passenger side cameras similar to the layout used for a truck. In a similar manner activation of the turn signal at results in a larger view two thirds of the display of the passenger side camera in the layout for a right turn signal and a larger view of the driver side at for as left tam signal. As noted above movement of the vehicle in excess of a threshold speed activates the display layout with substantially equal space dedicated to the rear camera and the two side cameras.

If the bus is boarding or unloading passengers the layout determination differs from the truck layouts. Specifically if the bus is boarding or unloading passengers such as may be indicated by a sensor indicating that the passenger boarding door is open as determined at then the display layout is activated. The layout provides a large half screen view of the passenger side of the vehicle with smaller views of the front and rear cameras. Additional views of the passenger boarding area or passenger seating area may be provided on the screen and or in the recorded video channels. For an articulated bus additional cameras and views may be added.

If the bus passengers are not boarding at the view layout for reverse travel at is shown using the layout . If not in reverse and not above the forward threshold speed the layout is selected.

The examples of display layouts are provided for a vertical or portrait orientation of the computer device display. The display layouts may be modified or reoriented for a horizontal or landscape orientation of the computer device. One computer device display is preferably provided in the vehicle such as by a tablet computer mounted in the driver area of the vehicle. It is also possible that two or more displays may be provided.

Other types of vehicles may benefit from the use of cameras directed toward areas about the vehicle and display of the video data on a display screen in the vehicle that is visible to the driver via a layout on the display screen. Together provide an example for a refuse collection truck. The user selects a refuse truck selection at from the menu of possible screen layouts or the set of display layouts may be selected during initial set up. As with the above described layout options connection of external power is detected at and cradling of the tablet computer device is detected at . A normal layout is selected with the from rear and side cameras shown Tablet applications are accessed at . If the vehicle s turn signal is activated at a determination is made as to which turn signal at and either a passenger side dominated view or a driver side dominated view is displayed.

The refuse truck may have a lower threshold for forward motion to trigger a change in views than a truck or bus. At a determination is made as to whether the threshold has been exceeded and if so the refuse truck view is changed to the three part layout view of approximately equal left right and rear cameras for speeds over 3 mph for example. For speeds under the threshold speed an inquiry is made as to whether the vehicle is in reverse at . If not in reverse and the vehicle is stopped or in park an inquiry is made as to whether vehicle operation sensors show that the refuse truck is picking up refuse at .

If the vehicle is operating to pick up refuse the display layout is changed at to show a grabbing and unloading camera for a portion of the screen and a hopper compactor camera for another portion of the display screen. The driver may thereby see what is happening at the refuse container grabbing grasping or gripping mechanism and thereby verify that people are away from the refuse container and from the truck body as the refuse container is being grasped by the grasping mechanism. The video is used to determine among other things that the refuse container is firmly grasped by the gripper mechanism of the truck and that the container is not dropped or slammed down when placed back on the ground.

The video view of the refuse hopper and compactor may be checked by the driver to ensure that power lines or tree branches are not in the way the area is clear and that the compactor has compressed the trash before more refuse is added. The view may be checked to see what has been dumped into the compactor such as whether a refuse bin has fallen into the compactor. This is possible even while the driver remains in the cab or passenger compartment of the refuse truck. The recorded video data of these data channels or cameras as stored on the computer device or other storage location may be used to determine if problems occurred during the refuse pickup.

If the inquiry determines that refuse is not being picked up such as when the truck is unloading or if the reverse operation sensor senses reverse operation the display layout is shown which is dominated by the rear view camera.

Automated switching of the video display layouts is thereby provided without requiring direct user input.

Other display layouts may be provided as needed having fewer or more camera views. The system provides driver assistance video data recording and storage and video playback and display as well as user controllable access to the recorded video data. Vehicle operation sensors and system inputs may include not only passenger loading sensors or loading unloading sensors but also lane departure sensors blind spot detection sensors vehicle diagnostic sensors and motion activated cameras such as may be used for video surveillance. An integrated global positioning system may record position data along with the video data.

The video system may be provided on commercial equipment specialty vehicles vocational vehicles trucks buses cars recreational vehicles and other vehicles. Other examples include video systems for semi trailers tank trailers log carriers flatbed trucks motorhomes RVs rigid buses articulated buses shuttle buses and school buses. Vocational vehicles such as refuse trucks cement mixers dump trucks and box trucks may be provided with the video system. Specialty vehicles such as fire trucks tow trucks and ambulances and mail delivery and package delivery vehicles may benefit from the present video system.

The driver s field of view is expanded by the video system. The recorded video and vehicle operation data may be played back transmitted stored and or analyzed. The stored video and vehicle data may be confirmed by a proof of delivery verification upon storage or transmittal. The stored data may be marked for vehicle operational events such as hard braking or other vehicle or driver events. The vehicle operation data may be used to indicate vehicle range estimated time of arrival fuel tax reporting state mileage determinations fuel usage or miles per gallon determinations and driving data such as average speed highest speed time driven time spent idling or moving average engine speed or the like. Drivers and fleet operators may use the recorded data for inspection records driver logs DOT logs or the like.

Up to six or more cameras may be provided on the vehicle to show front sides and rear views. In certain examples four of the cameras are displayed as dynamic near real time very low delay video streams on the display device. Power may be maintained to the cameras and recording system when the vehicle engine is off so that the system is used for surveillance or driver inspection.

Recording of the video data may be provided in selectable modes including continuous recording ignition initiated recording scheduled recording and event recording. All cameras or only selected cameras may be recorded in each mode. A preferred system records up to six cameras along with audio data and vehicle operations data. Vehicle operations may include condition information from the electronic control module of the vehicle speed data engine RPM data cruise control status seatbelt sensor air bag sensor GPS coordinates or time synched GPS data hard stop data or other data. Accident data may be recoded and saved for several minutes before and after an accident. The system may include a manual marker control to mark data for saving. Otherwise the data is stored in a first in first out fashion.

The stored data may be stored in full resolution a reduced resolution or a mix of both. The tablet computer may include a user facing camera that is activated to obtain video data of the vehicle driver during operation of the vehicle. The tablet computer may include a microphone for detecting sounds within the vehicle. The driver facing camera of the tablet computer and the microphone of the tablet computer may be activated for recording a further video channel and an audio channel that is recorded along with the video data from the vehicle mounted cameras. A view of the driver may be reviewed in the recorded data along with the video data of views outside the vehicle. The sound recording may be played back as well. The stored data may be recorded on the internal memory of the computer device on removable data such as a memory card or on an external memory device such as an external memory drive.

The system may permit user settings and user control for some or all settings. The user may replay information or manage the data in some embodiments whereas other embodiments may block a user from the data management. In certain embodiments the system prevents changes to the user settings or replay of stored data when the vehicle is in motion.

While the present invention is illustrated by description of several examples and while the illustrative examples are described in detail it is not the intention of the applicants to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of the description and should not be regarded as limiting the appended claims. Additional advantages and modifications within the scope of the appended claims will readily appear to those sufficed in the art. The disclosure in its broader aspects is therefore not limited to the specific details representative apparatuses and methods and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of applicants general concept.

