---

title: Musical input device and dynamic thresholding
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media for detecting vibrations in one or more strings of a stringed input device, detecting contact between the string and a contact in an array of contacts. The contacts detected and the vibrations can be registered, processed, and interpreted as musical notes. In some embodiments, the vibration inputs are only registered if they are intended inputs rather than inputs caused by the mechanical coupling of vibrations across the strings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311907&OS=09311907&RS=09311907
owner: INCIDENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09311907
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
The present disclosure relates to an input device and more specifically to detection and registration of inputs.

Plucking a string of a stringed instrument can cause a mechanical coupling of the vibrations to the other strings. Mechanical coupling of vibrations on traditional instrument strings is not seen as a problem because the frequency of the vibrations is the same so the coupling merely results in a resonant frequency and a more full sound production. Therefore the detection of mechanical coupling of vibrations is not necessary for traditional stringed instruments. However in a system when mechanical coupling of string vibrations results in false inputs mechanical coupling of vibrations needs to be accurately detected.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

As explained above traditional stringed instruments do not need to detect mechanical coupling of vibrations. However the input device of the present technology does not directly use the string vibrations to output notes. Rather it detects a variety of inputs including inputs on the neck comprising strings contacting frets and inputs comprising string vibration signals e.g. using a piezoelectric sensor and detection circuitry . This approach creates a specific issue of the mechanical coupling of vibrations causing the input device to register false inputs. Accordingly disclosed are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for detecting the mechanical coupling of vibrations on a stringed input device.

Some embodiments of the present technology involve detecting vibrations in one or more strings of a stringed input device as well as detecting contact between the string and a contact in an array of contacts. The contacts detected and the vibrations can be registered processed and interpreted as musical notes. In some embodiments the vibration inputs are only registered if they are intended inputs rather than inputs caused by the mechanical coupling of vibrations across the strings.

Determining whether a vibration on a string is an intended input can involve determining a thresholding ratio describing a degree to which the vibration in one string causes a vibration in every other string. Determining a thresholding ration can involve receiving an input signal representing a calibration vibration of a first string in the array of strings receiving a plurality of cross talk calibration voltage signals representing vibration of all the other strings that are caused by mechanical coupling of the vibration of the first string with the other strings and storing a thresholding ratio describing the degree to which the calibration vibration in the first string caused the cross talk calibration vibration in the second string.

In some embodiments of the present technology the amplitude of vibration signals can be inspected next to an amplitude of a vibration signal of another string using the thresholding ratio to determine whether an amplitude of the additional vibration in the second string is greater than a dynamic threshold amplitude that is a function of additional amplitude of the first string and the thresholding ratio.

The input device can register vibration inputs that exceed the dynamic threshold amplitude and can pass along zero signals for those vibration inputs that fall beneath the dynamic threshold amplitude.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The present disclosure addresses the need in the art for detecting the mechanical coupling of vibrations on a stringed input device. Accordingly a system method and non transitory computer readable media are disclosed which display note information detect inputs process the input signals and produce note information from the processed input signals.

With reference to an exemplary environment is illustrated where various embodiments of the invention function. A user may use an electronic input device to generate electric signals. Examples of the input device include but are not limited to input devices that look like a guitar a violin viola cello or any other stringed musical instrument. The electric signals generated by the input device may correspond to musical information. For example the electric signal may include Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI signals. Furthermore electric signals may be used to control video games. The input device may communicate with various external devices through interfaces such as but not limited to Universal Serial Bus USB Recommended Standard RS 232 Registered Jack RJ 45 or other wired or wireless interfaces such as Bluetooth Radio Frequency RF Infrared or optical coupling.

As shown in the input device may communicate with a computer a laptop a mobile device a synthesizer and a video game console . Mobile device may be for example a mobile phone a smart phone a Personal desktop Assistant PDA and so forth. Furthermore the input device may be connected to a server through a network and computer . Examples of network include but are not limited to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Wireless network Wifi a mobile network the Internet and so forth. Only a limited type of external devices are illustrated however a person skilled in the art will appreciate that other type of devices that use standard means of communication can also be connected to the input device . The input device may be used to control the external devices for example transmit musical note information or play a video game executing on an external device. The input device generates digital signals based on inputs provided by the user. The digital signals may be transmitted to the external devices. Moreover the input device can receive information from the external devices. For example The input device can be controlled or configured through external devices. Therefore The input device can function as a bi directional device.

With reference to an exemplary architecture of the input device is illustrated. The input device may include a base. For example in case the input device has a shape of a musical instrument such as a guitar than base may include a neck and a body. The input device includes a Suspended Wire Switch Array SWSA that may be used by the user to provide inputs to the input device . SWSA includes contacts strings external contacts and lighting elements . Contacts are disposed on the body of the input device and strings are suspended over contacts . For example in case the input device has a shape of guitar containing a neck and a body then contacts may be arranged over the neck and strings may be suspended over contacts . A typical arrangement of various components of the input device is illustrated with reference to . The input device may be connected to a power source to allow for operation of the input device . The power source may include an external or internal power source or onboard power system such as batteries or other power generation means. In an embodiment of the invention the input device may be powered from a USB connection.

The user may press one or more strings to touch one or more contacts for providing inputs. Strings may be polled for inputs provided by the user. For example the polling may be performed by sequentially or periodically transmitting signals through strings while contacts act as sink for the signals. Therefore when the user presses a string to touch a contact then a voltage is induced and SWSA generates digital inputs signals. Sensing finger position and generating input signals is explained in greater detail below.

The input device can detect mechanical inputs on the strings using capacitance sensors piezoelectronic sensors etc. and can process the inputs using signal processing circuitry digital software processing techniques and combinations thereof. Furthermore the user may touch external contact to one or more strings to provide inputs. External contact may be for example a metal pick in case of a guitar. External contact may be connected through wire or wirelessly to the input device . The detailed functioning and architecture of SWSA is also explained in a U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 634 377 filed on Dec. 9 2009 by the inventor of this invention and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Furthermore lighting elements may be provided on the body or neck of the input device . Lighting elements may include for example light emitting diodes that light up to provide a visual feedback about the mode of The input device to the user. The mode may include a musical instrument mode a game controller mode a standby mode and so forth. Moreover the external devices connected to the input device may control lighting elements . A processor receives the digital input signals generated by SWSA .

Processor is disposed on the neck of the input device . In an embodiment of the invention processor may be disposed on the body of the input device . Processor may be connected to capacitance sensors and motion sensor . Capacitance sensors may also be connected to strings to sense touching of the strings by the user. Therefore when the user touches any string a digital signal is transmitted to processor by capacitance sensors . The detection of touch may be used for advanced guitar playing techniques such as guitar muting. In some embodiments the input device involves an array of piezoelectronic sensors configured to sense string vibration and a signal processing sub system explained in greater detail below configured to translate mechanical string inputs and contact array inputs into digital signals.

Motion sensor enables detection of orientation of the input device . Motion sensor may be for example a three axes and low gravity accelerometer. Motion sensor transmits digital signals to processor based on the orientation of the input device . Therefore the user can provide inputs to the input device by moving or rotating it. Processor processes the signals received from strings capacitance sensors and motion sensor to generate digital output signals. The digital output signals may correspond to musical note information. For example the output digital signal may be MIDI signals based on the strings and notes selected by the user and or the orientation of the input device . The input signals are in a digital format therefore output digital signals can be generated directly without any analog to digital or digital to analog conversion. As a result the processing of the signals is faster efficient and without any delay or lag between the inputs provided by the user and output generated by the input device . Therefore the user is provided with an experience of playing an instrument with an interface similar to that of a real instrument with efficient output. In an embodiment of the invention the output signals may be analog signals.

Processor may be connected to multiple Input Output IO ports . The output signals generated by processor are transmitted to the external devices through IO ports . Moreover IO ports may receive external signals from the external devices. Thereafter processor may process the external signals. The external signals may include signals to control or configure the input device . For example processor may receive signals from the external devices to control lighting elements . Therefore The input device functions as a bi directional communication device. Examples of IO ports include but are not limited to USB Firewire RS232 RJ45 or other wired or wireless communication means such as RF or Bluetooth. IO ports may be disposed on the body and processor may be disposed on the neck of the input device . Further the body may include controls to control various features or modes of the input device . For example the user may control the volume output the mode of the input device and other features from controls .

The body of the input device may be detachable from the neck. Therefore the body of the input device can be customized based on the number and types of functionalities and then connected to the neck. Further processor may automatically detect the number and types of IO ports available in the body. For example the user may not require a Firewire port but requires an additional USB port therefore only the body of the input device may be customized to meet the user s requirement. As a result the user may have many options available to personalize the input device . In an embodiment of the invention the body of the input device may include a display for displaying information to the user. For example the display may present the volume connection with the external devices power status and so forth. Examples of the display include but are not limited to a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Light Emitting Diode LED display and so forth. Therefore the user can buy different bodies based on the configuration required and hot swap or replace the existing body without any significant interruption to functioning of the input device . As a result the input device is extremely customizable.

In some embodiments of the present technology dock can be integrated into the input device and the dock can mechanically and electronically couple with an external device e.g. a smartphone. The input device can translate inputs into digital audio signals and provide them to the external device. The external device can output the audio signals through a speaker and can display information about the digital audio signals on a display. Also the external device can contain software for providing a user with information about the audio signals e.g. note information of for providing interface elements for interacting with a user e.g. instrument learning instructions . Likewise the input device can be configured to allow the external device to control aspects of its operation. For example the external device can contain software for controlling the lighting elements . Interaction between an external device and the input device are explained in greater detail below.

In some embodiments of the present technology the input device includes a bridge for supporting the strings on the body and containing an input sensor array e.g. piezoelectric sensor array . The input sensor array can also communicate with a signal processing subsystem as explained in greater detail below.

With reference to a neck and a body of the input device are illustrated in a connected configuration. As shown the input device may include a neck bridge and a body bridge with corresponding holes for connecting strings . Neck bridge is disposed on neck and body bridge is disposed on body of The input device . Moreover neck bridge may be removable from neck . Therefore The input device can be customized based on the preferences of the user. For example the user may remove neck bridge and use body bridge .

Therefore as shown with reference to strings may be connected to body bridge . Alternatively strings may be connected to neck bridge as shown with reference to . A person skilled in the art will appreciate that neck may be designed to be longer than that of a conventional musical instrument such as guitar for neck bridge to look and function like body bridge . When strings are connected to neck bridge the swapping of body with another body becomes easier as the user may not be required to remove strings . The disconnected arrangement of neck and body is illustrated in . As shown strings are connected to neck bridge . Further body includes a connection mechanism for connecting and disconnecting neck and body . Connection mechanism may include mechanism to electrically and mechanically connected neck and body . For example connection mechanism may include a groove and spring mechanism for mechanical connectivity and an expansion port for electrical connectivity of neck and body . Therefore as also discussed above bodies for The input device can be hot swapped easily.

As shown in the input device may connect and communicate with an external device here after referred to as client . Client may include a computer application that receives and or sends the signals to the input device . Computer application may be software or firmware on client . Moreover client may include an Operating System OS for executing computer application . A person skilled in the art will appreciate that computer application may be implemented directly on hardware of client therefore OS may not be required. Computer application may process the output signals from The input device to generate musical notes. Moreover computer application may process the output signals from the input device to control other application such as a video game on client or over the network.

Client may be connected to a server through a network or cloud based services. Examples of network include but are not limited to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Wireless network Wifi a mobile network the Internet and so forth. Server may include computer applications and a database to enable communication with various clients. Therefore client may connect to the application available on server or connect to other clients through server . As a result the user can interface or compete with other users in real time. Furthermore computer application on client may be used to control or configure the input device . For example lighting elements of the input device the mode of the input device may be controlled from computer application . Moreover computer application can configure the programming of components of the input device such as processor . For example the firmware or software of processor may be configured or upgraded from computer application of client .

With the above components and design thereof in mind it should be appreciated that alternative components constructions and materials can be used to accomplish the benefits derived from the input device . For example the input device may comprise more than one processor.

Having discussed the exemplary embodiments and contemplated modifications it should be appreciated that a method for processing inputs provided by a user on an electronic musical instrument is also contemplated. According to this method an electronic musical instrument is provided. The electronic musical instrument here after referred to as The instrument may include a Suspended Wire Switch Array SWSA a processor multiple Input Output IO ports one or more capacitance sensors and a motion sensor.

The user touches strings to press contacts of the SWSA to generate digital input signals. Moreover digital input signals are generated based on sensing of touch by the capacitance sensors. Furthermore digital input signals are generated based on sensing of orientation of the instrument by the motion sensor. The digital input signals are received by the processor that processes the input signals to generate digital output signals. The output digital signals correspond to musical note information. For example the musical note information may include MIDI signals.

Further the output signals can be transmitted through the IO ports to external devices a device inserted into an integral dock etc. Thereafter the external devices generate musical notes based on the output signals. The external devices may also transmit digital signals for controlling or configuring the instrument. The user is provided a visual feedback based on the function or mode of the instrument through lighting elements connected to the processor. Additionally the user may control various features such as the volume or mode of the instrument from controls on the instrument. Moreover the body of the instrument can be detached from the neck.

The switch array base also includes an array of apertures disposed in the surface of the base. The apertures can comprise light tunnels for allowing light produced from a light source not shown beneath the surface of the base to pass through. In some cases the apertures can comprise a cavity filled with a transparent translucent semi opaque etc. material using a double injection molding technique explained below. Also in some embodiments the light source can comprise one or more LED isolated beneath each aperture . Also the light source s can be electronically coupled with a lighting processor in the base . For example the light source s can comprise a multi color e.g. RGB LED and the lighting processor can be configured to selectively mix the colors. Also as is explained in greater detail below the light source s can comprise an infrared IR object sensing LED electronically coupled with the lighting processor and the switch monitoring system .

For the purpose of clarity illustrates the input device without conductive wires strung over the switch array base . Similarly illustrates the input device having conductive wires strung over the switch array but without the array of conductive contacts or the array of apertures disposed therein.

As is explained in greater detail below the array of conductive contacts and the conductive wires are configured for detecting inputs in the form of a conductive wire making contact with one or more conductive contact . Therefore the conductive wires are provided with a voltage. For example the input device can include a power source electrically coupled with the conductive wires in one ore more ways including via a bridge where the conductive wires terminate etc.

As explained in greater detail below the array of conductive wires can be strung between two insolating blocks. For example in some embodiments of the present technology the conductive wires are strung between an insulated bridge and a nut located on a headstock .

The array of conductive contacts can be electronically coupled to a switch monitoring system explain in greater detail below . The contacts can be electronically coupled to a switch monitoring system in a variety of ways. For example each column i.e. a group of contacts forming a disjointed guitar fret of contacts can be coupled to a unique port not shown to the switch monitoring system . Accordingly an array of sixteen columns of contacts would involve sixteen separate inputs to the switch monitoring system .

When a conductive wire makes contact with a conductive contact a current is generated and a signal is sent to the switch monitoring system . As is explained in greater detail below the switch monitoring system can process the signal e.g. to generate musical note information and transmit the processed signal to a processor .

The input device is also configured to detect when a conductive wire is displaced vibrates etc. Accordingly the conductive wires can be thread through a bridge containing a piezoelectric sensor array . The piezoelectric sensor array contains an isolated piezoelectric sensor not labeled for each wire . Additionally each piezoelectric sensor is electronically coupled with signal processing sub system . The signal processing sub system processes as explained in greater detail below and transmits a processed signal to the processor . The input device can also include a mute that reduces attenuation in the conductive wires . In some embodiments of the present technology the mute is made of an insulating material. Also the mute does not impede the movement of the conductive wires up and down with respect to the surface of the input device but only applies muting attenuation in the wave propagation direction.

The input device can also include a dock and circuitry not shown for housing an external device and for coupling the external device with system components such as the processor the lighting processor etc. The external device can receive information from the input device e.g. MIDI data and can also provide data to the input device e.g. to drive the light sources . Similarly the external device can download updates from an external server and provide updates to the input device as explained in greater detail below.

As explained above the switch array base can include an array of apertures filled with a transparent translucent semi opaque etc. material using a double injection molding technique. illustrate views of an exemplary switch array base with a double injected top surface according to some embodiments of the present technology.

The top surface can comprise a first surface material molded during a first injection step that leaves the apertures as empty cavities. The apertures can comprise a second material molded into the cavities during a second injection step. illustrates a side view of the top surface showing the apertures and through holes .

The switch array base can also include a PCB and component layer and a structural base layer . illustrates a side view of the switch array base including a top surface a PCB and component layer and a structural base layer . The PCB and component layer can include a printed circuit board PCB and a plurality of surface mounted electronic components. For example the PCB and component layer can include contact detection circuitry as well as LED components . In some cases the LED components can comprise surface mounted RGB LEDs object detecting IR LEDs or both surface mounted RGB LEDs and object detecting IR LEDs. As shown in the through hole are filled with contacts that are electrically coupled with the PCB and or one or more of the surface mounted electronic components and configured to detect contact with an electrically charged wire.

In some embodiments of the present technology the LED components and are positioned under apertures and respectively and the second material that is injected into the apertures and is selected for its light diffusion quality. Consequently the light emitted by the LED components and appears more evenly distributed in the apertures .

With reference to an exemplary block diagram of a device for registering inputs from a user is illustrated. Device may be an electronic device that takes inputs from the user and generates corresponding output. Examples of device include but are not limited to a keyboard a keypad an input interface for an electronic or digital instrument and so forth. Device can provide a feedback to the user based on the input or the output. Examples of feedback include but are not limited to a mechanical feedback a visual feedback an audio feedback and so forth. Furthermore device can be connected to other electrical or electronic devices to provide output or feedback to the user. For example the other electronic devices can be a smartphone acomputer a laptop and the like. Moreover device may be connected to other devices through wired or wireless means. Device includes a switching system and a monitoring system to take inputs and or provide output to the user.

Switching system includes multiple conductive wires suspended over an array of conductive pads. For example an array of conductive pads can be an array of conductive contacts electronically coupled with a printed circuit board that includes circuitry for detecting and registering mechanical behavior of the conductive wires. The user may provide an input by pressing the wires on to the conductive pads. Therefore switching system may function as an array of electronic switches. However unlike the electronic switches generally known in the art switching system does not require an element to connect metal contacts for opening or closing the flow of current. The inputs provided by the user are monitored and analyzed by monitoring system to generate an output. Furthermore switching system provide the user micro timing control of the inputs. The components and functioning of switching system are explained in detail in conjunction with .

With reference to various components switching system may include a base surface insulating blocks an array of conductive pads first ports conductive wires second ports and current restricting components . Base surface may be an insulating material. Base surface ensures that no short circuit occurs between any points of the contacts mounted on it. Further the insulating material of base surface may be flexible. Array of conductive pads may be disposed on base surface in form of multiple rows and columns as illustrated with reference to . In an embodiment array of conductive pads may be generated by printing a conductive material on an integrated circuit material. Examples of the conductive material include but are not limited to copper gold aluminum silver and so forth. Each conductive pads may be connected individually to second ports . Further conductive pads may be maintained at a first electric potential. In an embodiment of the invention the first electric potential may be a ground potential.

Conductive wires are suspended over conductive pads at a physical distance . Physical distance may selected during design of device based on the application of device . For example physical distance may be more in applications that require micro timing control of inputs. As shown in conductive wires are suspended over the rows of conductive pads . It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that conductive wires can be suspended over the columns of conductive pads . Conductive wires may be designed from any conductive material length or thickness based on the application of device . For example in some embodiments of the present technology the conductive wires replicate the varied thickness of strings on a stringed instrument. Conductive wires are suspended from insulating blocks to first port . Insulating blocks may be disposed on base surface and provide tension to conductive wires . The tension in conductive wires provides a spring or elastic force. As a result when the user removes the force conductive wires automatically regain a default position. Therefore additional components to provide a spring force are not required in device .

Furthermore insulating blocks provide insulation among conductive wires thereby preventing any short circuit. As shown insulating blocks are arranged at the ends of the array of conductive pads . In an embodiment of the invention multiple insulating blocks may be arranged between columns or rows formed by the array of conductive pads . Insulating blocks may be non terminating. Therefore a conductive wire suspended from the insulating blocks is able to transmit current or signal without any restriction. However insulating blocks may restrict the flow of current among conductive wires . In another embodiment of the invention only a single insulating block may be used to suspend conductive wires from first ports 

In some embodiments of the present technology the insulating blocks may be components of an instrument such as a guitar bridge and headstock respectively.

First ports provides a second electric potential to conductive wires . The second electric potential may be at an absolute relative difference from the first electric potential provided to conductive pads . In an embodiment of the invention the second electric potential is more than the first electric potential. Therefore when the user contacts a conductive wire with a conductive pad a current flows in switching system . Hence each conductive pad may act as an independent electrical switch and array of conductive pad may acts as an array of electrical switches to take inputs from the user. Each electrical switch may considered in an off state when the current is not flowing and an on state when the current is flowing through the switch. Conductive pads are connected to current restricting elements at ends. Generally electrical switches with array design encounter the issue of ghosting or masking Typically the ghosting or masking refers to the phenomena that occur when current flows in a wrong or unintended direction. This means that if two switches are closed on different columns but on adjacent rows then current will flow in the wrong or unintended direction. As a result a non existent key press is detected. Current restricting elements connected to conductive pads allow current to flow in only one direction. For example the current may flow only from first port to second ports . Therefore the issues of ghosting or masking may be prevented. Current restricting elements may be semiconductor elements such as diodes.

Conductive pads may share second ports as shown with reference to . Therefore the components required for switching system may be further reduced. As shown with reference to switching system may include conductive pins . Conductive pins may be connected to third ports . Conductive pins may be a movable and can contact any conductive wires . The user may contact conductive pins to conductive wires to provide inputs. In an embodiment of the invention the function of conductive pins may be similar to that of conductive pad . Further conductive pins may be connected to a current restricting elements as shown. In another embodiment of the invention conductive pins may provide the second potential to conductive wires . Conductive pins are provided with a third electric potential. In an embodiment of the invention the third electric potential may be equal to the first electric potential provided to conductive pads . In another embodiment of the invention the third potential may be equal to the second potential provided to conductive wires 

An exemplary perspective view of switching system is illustrated with reference to . Although there can be multiple insulating blocks only a single insulating block is illustrated in for the sake of explanation and does not restrict the scope of the invention. As illustrated conductive wires are suspended from insulating block over conductive pads . Electrical switches formed by conductive wires and conductive pads may be actuated as shown with reference to . With reference to an exemplary actuation of switches in switching system is explained with only a single conductive wire that may be suspended over conductive pads . A person skilled in the art will appreciate that other electrical switches formed by conductive wires and conductive pads may function is similarly. The user may press conductive wire as shown by arrow to contact it with conductive pad . As a result current flows between first port and second port . Similarly when the user presses conductive wire to contact with conductive pad then a current flows between first port and second port . The user may press various conductive wires simultaneously. Further the user may press various conductive wires on various conductive pads to provide inputs. For example the user may press conductive wire to contact conductive pad and . The inputs provided by the user are monitored and analyzed by monitoring system . With reference to another exemplary actuation of the switches in switching system is illustrated. The user may press conductive wire as shown by an arrow . As a result conductive wire may contact both conductive pads and . Therefore current flows between first port and second ports and . The user can therefore provide inputs by contacting a single conductive wire to multiple conductive pads. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple conductive wires may be contacted with multiple conductive pads in the configuration discussed with reference to to provide inputs. Furthermore the elements of switching system may be designed to provide the configurations as discussed in conjunction with . The size or area of conductive pads may be designed so that conductive wires can touch multiple conductive pads. For example a device in the configuration of a guitar with conductive wires suspended over the array of conductive pads the conductive pads can be configured a guitar frets.

Driving unit is connected to first ports of switching system to provide electric current or signals to conductive wires . Driving unit provides the current or signals are based on instructions received from processor this is hereinafter referred to as polling of conductive wires . Driving unit polls conductive wires at a pre defined frequency. The pre defined frequency may be based on the application of device . However a person skilled in the art will appreciate that the pre defined frequency is more than the rate at which the user can provide inputs to device . In an embodiment of the invention driving unit polls conductive wires at a dynamic frequency. Therefore the frequency of the polling may be defined during the functioning of switching system . In another embodiment of the invention driving unit polls conductive wires based on events. Driving unit polls each conductive wires independently. Further driving unit may polls each conductive wires sequentially. For example conductive wire may be polled followed by conductive wire and similarly other conductive wires may be polled. In an embodiment of the invention the sequence of polling is pre defined based on the application of device . In another embodiment of the invention the sequence of polling may be adjusted dynamically.

When the user contacts a conductive wire to a conductive pad voltage is induced. Subsequently the signal or current sent by driving unit through a first port is received at a second port of switching system . For example as shown with reference to when conductive wire contacts conductive pad then the signal is received at second port . Therefore a conductive wire pressed and the corresponding conductive pad can be judged based on the signal received at second port . However as discussed above the user may press multiple conductive wires on multiple conductive pads . Therefore driving unit polls each conductive wire simultaneously and corresponding result of the polling are received at receiving unit through second ports 

Receiving unit may be connected to switching system through second ports . Furthermore receiving unit may be connected to conductive pins through third ports . The result received by receiving unit may be in form of signals or currents. The result is obtained by polling switching system and therefore may indicate an existing status of switching system . The existing status of switching system may include an existing status of conductive pads . The existing status of conductive pads may indicate whether the current or signal is received from conductive pads . For example as shown with reference to when conductive wire contacts conductive pad then a current or signal of polling may flow to second port . In this case the existing status of conductive pad may be stored by receiving unit as active . Similarly when a current is not flowing the status is stored as inactive . Further the existing status of switching system may include an existing status of conductive pin . As discussed above the existing status of conductive pin can be active or inactive based on whether the current is flowing or not. In an embodiment of the invention existing status of conductive pin may include various pre set parameters associated with conductive pin such as duration of contact and so forth. The result may be stored by receiving unit in a register in an embodiment of the invention. Driving unit continuously polls conductive wires sequentially and the result of polling is accordingly updated in the register by receiving unit . In an embodiment of the invention a last status of polling is stored along with the existing status of switching system . The last status is here after referred to as previous status of switching system .

Processor analyzes the results stored by receiving system to generate an output corresponding to the inputs provided by the user. For example processor reads the existing status of a conductive pad as active and may correspondingly generate an output associated with the conductive pad. The output may be present to the user as mechanical visual or audible feedback.

In an embodiment of the invention processor compares the previous status with the existing status of switching system to generate an output. For example the previous status of conductive pins may be compared to the existing status of conductive pins . Assuming that the previous status of conductive pins was active and the existing status is inactive then processor may generate output corresponding to existing status of conductive pads and conductive pins . In an embodiment of the invention the output is generated by processor based on pre set parameters associated with conductive pins . Further processor may store the previous status of switching system in a register. Processor may include software or firmware to provide instructions to driving unit and receiving unit . In an embodiment of the invention driving unit and receiving unit may be electrical or electronic circuits driven on instructions provided by processor . In another embodiment of the invention driving unit and receiving unit may be components of processor .

With the above components and design thereof in mind it should be appreciated that alternative components constructions and materials can be used to accomplish the benefits derived from device . For example monitoring system may comprise more than one processor. Further the functionality of receiving unit may be incorporated in driving unit . Moreover driving unit may be connected to second ports and receiving unit may be connected to first ports 

Having discussed the exemplary embodiments and contemplated modifications it should be appreciated that a method for registering inputs provided by the user and generating a corresponding is also contemplated. According to this method a device is provided. The device may include a switching system and an monitoring system. The switching may include an array of conductive pads and one or more conductive wires suspended over the array of conductive pads. The monitoring system includes a processor a driving unit and a receiving unit.

The driving unit of monitoring system continuously polls the conductive wires of the switching system sequentially. Therefore when the user presses the conductive wires to contact the conductive pads the receiving unit may receive a result of polling. The result of polling may include an existing status of the switching unit. The existing status of the switching unit may include an existing status of the conductive pads. In an embodiment of the invention the existing status of the switching system may further include an existing status of multiple conductive pins connected to third ports. Further the receiving unit may store the result in a register. Moreover the receiving unit may store a previous state of the switching system in the register.

Thereafter the processor processes the result of polling to generate an output corresponding to the inputs provided by the user. In an embodiment of the invention the processor compares the existing status to the previous status. Thereafter the output is generated based on the difference in the previous status and the existing status. For example the previous state of the conducting pins is compared with the existing state of the conducting pins and correspondingly an output is generated based on the existing status of the conductive pads and the pre set parameters associated with the conductive pins. In an embodiment of the invention the processor may store the result of polling in a register.

The foregoing disclosure explains exemplary systems and method for detecting contact between wires in a suspended array and an array of conductive contacts. Additionally in some embodiments of the present technology additional techniques are used to improve the accuracy of a detection circuit. For example one or more location or proximity sensors can be employed in addition to the contact detection circuit.

In some embodiments of the present technology the array of lighting elements can include one or more proximity sensors to detect when a contact is about to be touched. For example one or more infrared IR proximity sensors can be used. An IR proximity sensor can modulate an IR signal emitted from a pair of IR LEDs and can also detect the modulated IR signal reflected back from a nearby object.

In addition to detecting one or more contacts with an array of contacts the present technology can involve detecting contact with the conductive wires themselves. A number of techniques can be used to detect contact with the wires including but not limited to an external contact piezoresistive sensors and circuitry coupled with the wires piezoelectric sensors and circuitry coupled with the wires signal processing circuits digital signal processing modules etc.

For example illustrates an exemplary system for analyzing mechanical inputs using piezoelectric sensors according to some embodiments of the present technology. The system includes conductive wires coupled with an array of piezoelectric sensors contained in a housing e.g. a bridge of an instrument. The piezoelectric sensors can convert force and vibration of the conductive wires into an analog voltage signals that are fed into a signal processing subsystem . Furthermore the system can detect physical contact of the conductive wires even when they are not depressed onto one or more piezoelectric sensors . For example a signal of a known frequency can be pushed onto a wire and the system can detect changes to the RC characteristics.

The signal processing subsystem is configured to interpret the analog voltage signals to determine when the conductive wires are plucked and how hard they are plucked.

In the case of conductive wires of various masses and tension e.g. guitar strings the wires will vibrate at different frequencies. Consequently the signal processing subsystem includes a group of bandpass filters having varied cutoff frequencies depending on the conductive wire that is connected thereto. In the case of musical instrument strings the cutoff frequencies generally relate to a range of frequencies produced by plucking the respective strings.

The group of bandpass filters is electrically coupled with a group of peak detectors and respective bandpass filters pass vibrations in the cutoff frequency range to corresponding peak detectors . The peak detectors are configured to isolate actual wire plucks from attenuation.

Each of the peak detectors can also be coupled with a potentiometer respectively. The potentiometers can be used to adjust capacitance in the peak detectors thereby allowing control and adjustment of when voltages are detected as actual plucks as opposed to attenuation. In some cases the potentiometers can be adjusted to specifically address a ripple effect when a conductive wire is plucked quickly.

The system can also include an insulated mute is positioned between an area where the conductive wires are plucked and the piezoelectric sensors detect vibration. The mute can be a dampening material e.g. rubber that reduces attenuation in the conductive wires .

Additionally in some embodiments of the present technology the signal processing subsystem and or a control unit can also include one or more digital signal processing software modules . The digital signal processing software modules can be configured to perform further signal processing such as note queuing windowing detection of pitch deviation articulation deviation cross talk between conductive wires etc. Also in some embodiments the digital signal processing software modules can replace one or more of the analog signal processing components e.g. the peak detectors . After a voltage signal is processed by the signal processing subsystem a control unit receives the processed signals.

In other embodiments the detection of contact with conductive wires involves piezoresistive sensors coupled with the wires. With reference to an apparatus for analyzing mechanical inputs is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Apparatus can determine and analyze various characteristics of mechanical inputs for example tension and mechanical vibrations by converting them to electric signals. Mechanical elements of apparatus determine or receive the mechanical inputs. Examples of mechanical elements include but are not limited to strings beams cantilevers or other mechanical elements that can sustain mechanical stress due to tension and vibrations. Each of mechanical elements is connected to a piezoresistive sensor . In an embodiment of the invention mechanical elements may be connected to a single piezoresistive sensor. Further mechanical elements may be under mechanical stresses or provided a predefined tension before applying the mechanical inputs.

Piezoresistive sensor generates electric signals based on the mechanical inputs. It is well known that the resistance of piezoresistive materials change based on the amount of physical deformation. Therefore when mechanical inputs are provided to mechanical elements the resistance of piezoresistive material in piezoresistive sensor changes and corresponding electric signals are generated. The electric signals may be then analyzed by a first electric element hereafter referred to as first element and a second electric element hereafter referred to as second element to generate two voltage components of the electric signals.

First element may determine an average voltage value for the electric signal. In an embodiment of the invention first element may be a low pass filter that eliminates electric signals having frequencies higher than a predefined frequency level to calculate the average voltage. For example electric signals with a frequency less than 10 Hz may be filtered out e.g. using low pass filters RMS detection or zero crossing techniques . The average voltage corresponds to an average or a constant tension in mechanical elements . Further the average voltage may remain same when a constant force is applied and changes when the constant force changes. For example when mechanical elements are displaced and thus applying a constant tension. Further the electric signals may include transient voltages for example the voltages generated by vibrations of mechanical elements .

Second element analyzes the electric signals for the transient voltages in the electric signal. The average voltage value is sent from first element to second element . Thereafter the values of the transient voltages may be determined based on the average voltage value. For example the transient voltage values may include values that are centered about zero after eliminating the average voltage values from the electric signal. In an embodiment of the invention second element may be a high pass filter or a biased high pass filter that filters out electric signals having frequencies lower than the predefined frequency level. For example electric signals with a frequency less than 10 Hz may be filtered out. Furthermore second element may filter out the electric signals that have frequencies outside a predefined frequency range. For example electric signals with a frequency outside the range of 50 Hz to 100 Hz may be filtered out. The transient voltage values may be generated by vibrations of mechanical elements . In an embodiment of the invention apparatus may include a converter for converting the outputs of first element and second element from analog to digital. Exemplary electric signals and voltage components are illustrated in conjunction with .

Thereafter the transient voltage values and the average voltage values are sent to a processor . Processor may then process the voltage component including the transient voltages and the average voltage to determine the characteristics of the mechanical inputs such as tension and vibrations. For example processor may determine the magnitude and articulation of mechanical elements based on the outputs of first element and second element . Furthermore processor may determine complex mechanical inputs based on the time information of the vibrations. The time information may be for example the time required by mechanical element to reach a highest frequency time for which a frequency is sustained time to drop to a previous frequency and so forth. Furthermore processor may calibrate piezoresistive sensor based on the average voltage level. For example mechanical elements may be provided a tension before applying mechanical inputs. Therefore processor may use the average voltage information to calibrate apparatus .

An exemplary arrangement for determination of mechanical inputs is illustrated with reference to . As shown the mechanical element is in the form of a string that determines mechanical inputs. String is connected at one end to a ring that can be used to make string tight or loose. Further ring exerts pressure on piezoresistive sensor through pressure distribution element . As shown the shape of pressure distribution element is trapezoidal to uniformly distribute the pressure on the surface of piezoresistive sensor . However a person skilled in the art will appreciate that any other suitable shape can be selected. Therefore piezoresistive sensor may be fixed between pressure distribution element and a block . Block may be for example a supporting structure of an apparatus for analyzing the mechanical inputs. When string is stressed for example by vibrations or tension then the stress is transferred to piezoresistive sensor . As a result the resistance of the material of piezoresistive sensor changes. The changes in the resistance are used to generate electric signals. The electric signals may be generated in the electric circuit of piezoresistive sensor which is shown with reference to .

Circuit A may include a resistor R and a resistor R . Resistor R may correspond to the resistance of piezoresistive sensor . Further as discussed above the resistance of piezoresistive sensor may change based on the stresses. The mathematical equation for output voltage in this case is out 2 1 2 in

As a result the value of Vout may change based on the resistance of piezoresistive sensor . Further the value of the voltage may change frequently based on the type of stress. For example the voltage may remain constant at a particular level in case of tension whereas the voltage may fluctuate in case of vibrations in the mechanical elements.

In this case OA may amplify the current Iin provided to R . Further Iin may be converted to voltage Vout. The mathematical equation for output voltage in this case is out in 2

Therefore better control may be applied to the current and voltage changes. As a result the mechanical inputs may be detected with a greater accuracy. Although limited examples of circuit are discussed a person skilled in the art will appreciate that other circuit may be used to detect the changes in voltage or current without deviating from the scope of the invention. Exemplary waveforms for electric signals corresponding to the mechanical inputs are illustrated with reference to .

Further as shown in waveform may be analyzed by second element to generate a waveform . Waveform may be formed from the voltage component received by filtering out the voltages having frequencies lower than the predefined frequency level. Furthermore the average voltage level from first element may be used by second element to generate waveform and determine the vibrations in the mechanical elements.

At step the electric signals may be analyzed by a first electric element and a second electric element. The analysis may be performed to determine voltage components of the electric signals. The first electric element may determine an average voltage value for the electric signal. In an embodiment of the invention first electric element may be a low pass filter that eliminates electric signals having frequencies higher than a predefined frequency level to calculate the average voltage. For example electric signals with a frequency less than 10 Hz may be filtered out. The average voltage corresponds to an average tension in mechanical elements. Further second electric element may analyze the electric signals for the transient voltages in the electric signal. The average voltage value is sent from the first electric element to the second electric element. Thereafter the values of the transient voltages may be determined based on the average voltage value. For example the transient voltage values may include values that are centered about zero after eliminating the average voltage values from the electric signal. In an embodiment of the invention the second electric element may filter out electric signals having frequencies lower than the predefined frequency level. For example electric signals with a frequency less than 10 Hz may be filtered out.

At step the voltage components generated by the electric elements are analyzed by a processor to determine mechanical inputs. For example the processor may determine the magnitude and articulation of the mechanical elements based on the outputs of first electric element and the second electric element. Furthermore the processor may determine complex mechanical inputs based on the time information of the vibrations.

As explained herein there are a variety of ways to detect contact between a wire and one or more conductive pads in an array and to detect vibrations in a wire. However in some cases not all detected signals are registered as input. For example in some embodiments of the present technology a minimum noise is required for a signal to be registered as an input e.g. to prevent sounds from electronic components from being registered . Also in the case of the input device comprising a representation of a stringed instrument e.g. a guitar the control circuit will receive multiple signals each representing vibration of the conductive wire. However plucking on a wire can cause mechanical coupling of vibrations aka cross talk. In other words the wire vibrations in one wire can be transferred to the other wires. At or around the same time that a wire hears cross talk the wire can be attenuating from a previous pluck or receiving a new input. Accordingly vibration in a single wire can be caused by plucking the wire and by vibrations from another wire. In some cases cross talk can account for a majority e.g. 60 of a signal. Consequently without accounting for cross talk can cause the control unit to interpret a signal from wire that is caused by cross talk as a true signal that is caused by that wire being plucked. Therefore there is a need to determine which signals are caused by actual plucking events and which are due to cross talk.

Some embodiments of the present technology involve determining for each wire in a group of stings in a suspended wire switch array the extent to which the wire contributes to a voltage signal produced in every other wire due to the dynamic coupling of vibrations. The degree to which a wire contributes to vibration in another wire can be expressed as a proportion or percentage of the amplitude value for the other strings. For example a given percentage of a voltage signal received from first wire vibrating can be caused by the vibration from a second wire. Some embodiments of the present technology involve empirically testing a population of input devices by plucking wires one at a time to determine a degree to which the wire plucks cause vibrations in each of the other wires. The empirical results can then be used to cancel inputs from a wire with an amplitude that does not exceed a predetermined threshold percentage of the amplitude of another wire.

The method can pass a zero signal to the control unit if the input from the additional wire is attributed to cross talk and conversely can register the input from the additional wire if the dynamic threshold was met or exceeded. Because the amplitude of inputs from the wires is dynamic the proportional threshold amplitude required to pass along an input from other wires is also dynamic. Additionally this determination can be made using empirically derived data as explained above.

Of course a similar method can be used to determine whether or not to attribute the input in the first wire to cross talk from the additional wire. Indeed the terms first and additional as they relate to the discussion of the mechanical coupling of vibrations should not be read to imply temporal order. For example some times an input from a first wire occurs earlier in time than the input from the additional wire. In this case a zero signal can simply nullify the additional input. However the additional input can sometimes occur before the input from the first wire such that the amplitude of the input from the first wire sets the threshold amplitude higher than the amplitude of the additional input. Consequently some embodiments of the present technology involve creating temporal windows for storing potential notes to pass on and waiting for the window to close without receiving an additional input that indicates that one or more of the potential notes in the window was actually created by cross talk. In some embodiments the window is dynamically altered to be longer or shorter to minimize the degree that a human player would be able to play with such frequency while increasing this window every time an input is detected. In other words a determination of which input is the actual pluck until the algorithm settles within the window. So until the window elapses at every point an input is detected cross talk or otherwise a certain increment is added to the window. Both the baseline window and increment can be altered through software calibration as well.

As explained above the signal processing subsystem and or a control unit can be configured to account for cross talk between conductive wires . Additionally the predetermined dynamic thresholds the timing of the window etc. can be modified manually modified by an application running an external host or modified using hardware firmware or software updates. For example an update to a software application e.g. can be used to change the thresholds used to detect cross talk.

With reference to an environment is illustrated where various embodiments of the present invention function in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Environment includes a system a network and remote devices . A user may interact with a digital musical instrument of system . Digital musical instrument here after referred to as instrument includes a stringed musical instrument such as but not limited to a guitar a lute a vihuela a violin a cello and so forth. A user may interact with instrument by using the strings to select or play a musical note. Further instrument is digital. Therefore the inputs to and outputs from instrument are digital. For example digital signals are generated when the user presses the strings on a fretboard by using fingers or any other object. The digital signals may include information regarding the position of contact of the string with the fretboard. For example the digital signals may include the position of the finger where a string is contacted with the fretboard. In an embodiment of the invention the digital signals may include additional information such as the time and duration of the contact of the string with the fretboard.

The digital signals here after referred to as signals are then transmitted to processing device of system . The signals may be transmitted over a wired connection and or a wireless connection. Examples of wireless connection include but are not limited to a Radio Frequency RF Infrared a Bluetooth connection and so forth. In an embodiment of the invention the signals may be transmitted to processing device over a computer network such as the Internet. Processing device includes a device capable of processing the digital signals to generate musical notes and or musical notation. For example the musical notation includes tablature. Tablature is well known a form of musical notation that indicates the finger positions on a musical instrument rather than musical pitches.

Examples of processing device include but are not limited to a computer a laptop a mobile phone a smart phone Digital Audio Workstation DAW and so forth. Further processing device may be connected to remote devices through network . Examples of network include but are not limited to a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet and so forth. Processing device may communicate with remote devices for information such as musical notes information about finger position and so forth. In an embodiment of the invention device may process the signals received from processing device to generate musical notes and or notation. Examples of remote devices include but are not limited to a computer a laptop a mobile phone a Smartphone a server and so forth.

Detector may include an electric circuit for detecting the contact. In an embodiment of the invention strings and fretboard may be parts of the electric circuit. Therefore when a string touches fretboard at a particular position a voltage is induced and a digital signal is generated based on the position. In another embodiment of the invention detector may include touch sensors for detecting the position of the contact. Examples of touch sensors include resistive touch sensors and capacitive touch sensors. In yet another embodiment of the invention detector may include sensors such light sensors motion sensors temperature sensors and so forth. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that various other types of components and circuits may be used to detect the position of contact.

The position of contact may be designated in the signals by the string touching fretboard and the coordinates of the contact. Further the signals may include information such as the time and duration of the contact. The signals are then transmitted to processing device by transmitter through a wired connection and or a wireless connection. For example transmitter may transmit the signals though a Universal Serial Bus USB Wifi Bluetooth Infrared Ethernet ports and so forth. Thereafter processing device may process the signals to generate musical notation.

With reference to various elements of processing device are illustrated in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The signals sent from transmitter are received by a receiver of processing device . Subsequently a processor analyzes the signals to generate musical notation. As discussed above musical notation may be in the form of tablature. Further the tablature may be a standard tablature of a hybrid tablature. The hybrid tablature may include the finger position and time or duration information of the contact. For example the hybrid tablature may be in the form of a hybrid of a combination of a piano roll mechanism for duration information and tablature of note pitch fret string information.

The tablature may be displayed on a Graphical User Interface GUI of a display . In an embodiment of the invention the positions are displayed on the GUI in real time. For example when at a particular moment the user presses the strings to contact the fretboard the position is displayed on the GUI at the same moment in form of tablature. Display may be integrated in processing device or may be connected as an external device. In another embodiment of the invention the tablature may be stored in a memory . Examples of memory include but are not limited to a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a USB drive and so forth. Therefore the user can view the tablature at a later moment based on the requirement. In yet another embodiment of the invention the tablature may be simultaneously displayed in real time and stored in memory . Further the user may navigate through the tablature from display or print the tablature for a physical copy.

Processing device may include a network interface for communicating over network . Processing device may communicate the tablature to remote devices . Further the signals may be communicated to remote devices . In an embodiment of the invention processing device may display the finger positions and other information over a pre stored tablature in memory for comparison. As a result the user can learn the finger placements based on the pre stored tablature. Although processing device is discussed as an external device to instrument a person skilled in the art will appreciate that instrument may include all or parts of the functionalities of processing device .

At step processing device analyzes the signals to generate musical notation. The musical notation may include tablature indicating the finger positions. Subsequently the tablature may be displayed to the user on display at step . Further the tablature may be stored in a memory and then displayed on display . Moreover processing device may communicate the signals containing the position information and or the tablature over network .

For example as explained in greater detail below the instrument can couple with an external host that runs an application for displaying note information and outputting corresponding audio when notes are played properly.

In some embodiments of the present technology an input device can be integrated into a network ecosystem via an external host. illustrates a network ecosystem including a server in communication with an external host integrated into an input device via one or more network .

The input device can be an instrument e.g. a guitar like instrument have a suspended wire switch array circuit a wire contact detection circuit e.g. a piezoelectric circuit and a lighting controller electronically coupled with a control unit . Also the control unit can be electronically coupled with the external host . Those with ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure will readily appreciate that a wide variety of external hosts can be used with the disclosed technology. In a specific example the external host can be a smartphone that is able to connect to the server via the one or more network .

Also the external host can include a display and can run an application configured to access content and user data from the server and configured to display information about the content on the display . The application can be uploaded to an application store platform from the server and downloaded from the application store platform via the external host device. Similarly updates to the application can be uploaded to the application store platform from the server and be made available for download.

The server can contain one or more content repositories containing content that is configured to be accessed via the application . In some embodiments the content stored in the one or more content repositories comprises song information in a tablature piano roll hybrid etc. form. In some embodiments access to the one or more content repositories is tiered. For example all users of the application can have access to content in content repository while only premium e.g. paying users of the application can have access to content in content repository .

The server can contain a user data repository containing user data such as usernames passwords preferences etc. Also the user data repository can store application song play data for users. Similarly the application can access play data of one or more user if the user has not opted out of sharing play data and share the users play data in the application or with another application. For example the application can be configured to share users play data in a social media application micro blogging application etc.

The server can also be configured to receive updates from an administrator . For example the server can receive one or more updates to the application software and the server can upload the application updates to the application store platform or send them directly to the host device . Similarly the server can receive one or more software updates and or firmware updates for the switch array circuit the wire contact detection circuit a lighting controller the control unit or combinations thereof. The server can upload the software firmware updates to the application store platform or directly to the host device .

Also in some embodiments of the present technology one or more of the switch array circuit the wire contact detection circuit a lighting controller and the control unit are configured to be removable and replaceable. Consequently if an administrator updates one or more of the hardware components a user can easily swap out existing components with new updated ones. For example in some embodiments the control unit is modular replaceable and contains a digital signal processing module for processing an analog voltage signal coming from the wire contact detection circuit . Upon an update being made available to the signal processing software firmware or hardware e.g. an updated crosstalk processing software patch of the control unit the control unit can simply be removed and replaced by the end user. Similarly the input device can include one or more expansion slots not shown electronically coupled to the control unit for accommodating future modules now known or later developed. Accordingly the input device is extremely scalable and expandable.

The server can also include a developer toolbox . The developer toolbox can be used to store and make available to developers tools for creating software application as well as firmware and hardware modifications for the host device and or the input device . The developer tools can comprise a software developer kit SDK containing information required to program applications for the host device to control the input device . For example the SDK can include one or more downloadable application programming interfaces APIs that can be used to create software applications that can interact with the application the host device itself or both.

The disclosed system can detect and process inputs as notes detect motion drive lighting elements display information on an external host device output audio receive note information from a server etc. The variety of inputs and output options lends to a wide variety of ways to present the information to a user. For example in the case of the input device being used as a musical device the external host can operate software for teaching a user to play the musical instrument. Also the software can receive song information form the server output an audio signal that conveys how the song is meant to be played cause the input device to light up lighting elements showing proper finger placement etc. illustrate exemplary user interface elements for instructing a user to play a musical instrument according to some embodiments of the present technology.

Additionally external device can cause the input device to change state e.g. toggles lighting elements according to how a song should be played. illustrates a neck of an input device having an array of lighting elements . Particular lighting elements can be illuminated to show the proper string fret combination for playing the music composition shown in the display. The illuminated lighting elements and correspond with the information being described in the representation of .

An entire row of lighting elements can be illuminated to indicate that an open string should be played. Additionally the LEDs can be RGB LEDs such that each row of lighting elements under a particular string can be a different color.

As explained above the representation of the music composition can advance when the notes chords are played satisfactorily. illustrates an exemplary set of rules according to some embodiments of the present technology. As shown in three sets of rule modes include Easy Medium and Hard. Each rule mode can require one or more type of correct input to advance the music composition. The types of inputs can correspond to one or more portion of the hardware in the input device. Also depending on the rule mode the device can either play incorrect notes or not.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device can represent any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems can enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface can generally govern and manage the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

Storage device is a non volatile memory and can be a hard disk or other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards solid state memory devices digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM and hybrids thereof.

The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device can be connected to the system bus . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function can include the software component stored in a computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function.

Chipset can also interface with one or more communication interfaces that can have different physical interfaces. Such communication interfaces can include interfaces for wired and wireless local area networks for broadband wireless networks as well as personal area networks. Some applications of the methods for generating displaying and using the GUI disclosed herein can include receiving ordered datasets over the physical interface or be generated by the machine itself by processor analyzing data stored in storage or . Further the machine can receive inputs from a user via user interface components and execute appropriate functions such as browsing functions by interpreting these inputs using processor .

It can be appreciated that exemplary systems and can have more than one processor or be part of a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability.

For clarity of explanation in some instances the present technology may be presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks comprising devices device components steps or routines in a method embodied in software or combinations of hardware and software.

In some embodiments the computer readable storage devices mediums and memories can include a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like. However when mentioned non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

Methods according to the above described examples can be implemented using computer executable instructions that are stored or otherwise available from computer readable media. Such instructions can comprise for example instructions and data which cause or otherwise configure a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Portions of computer resources used can be accessible over a network. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language firmware or source code. Examples of computer readable media that may be used to store instructions information used and or information created during methods according to described examples include magnetic or optical disks flash memory USB devices provided with non volatile memory networked storage devices and so on.

Devices implementing methods according to these disclosures can comprise hardware firmware and or software and can take any of a variety of form factors. Typical examples of such form factors include laptops smart phones small form factor personal computers personal digital assistants and so on. Functionality described herein also can be embodied in peripherals or add in cards. Such functionality can also be implemented on a circuit board among different chips or different processes executing in a single device by way of further example.

The instructions media for conveying such instructions computing resources for executing them and other structures for supporting such computing resources are means for providing the functions described in these disclosures.

Although a variety of examples and other information was used to explain aspects within the scope of the appended claims no limitation of the claims should be implied based on particular features or arrangements in such examples as one of ordinary skill would be able to use these examples to derive a wide variety of implementations. Further and although some subject matter may have been described in language specific to examples of structural features and or method steps it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to these described features or acts. For example such functionality can be distributed differently or performed in components other than those identified herein. Rather the described features and steps are disclosed as examples of components of systems and methods within the scope of the appended claims.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

