---

title: Social data overlay
abstract: In particular embodiments, a method comprising, by one or more computing devices, identifying, at a client device, one or more objects or references to the one or more objects embedded in a structured document displayed to a first user, accessing a social graph to determine if one or more second users having an association with the first user have accessed any of the one or more identified objects, and modifying, for at least one of the one or more identified objects, the structured document displayed to the first user to indicate that the at least one or more identified objects has been accessed by one or more second users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405737&OS=09405737&RS=09405737
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09405737
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140709
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 116 923 filed 26 May 2011.

The present disclosure generally relates to social networking systems and more specifically relates to accessing social networking systems to enhance browsing activities in connection with third party websites.

A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system.

The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interests. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. The social networking system may also create and store user preferences.

A social networking system may support application programming interfaces and associated functionality that allows third party systems to access user profile data of its users. Such third party websites can use the user profile data can use the identity and account of a user for purposes of identifying users and maintaining their accounts at such third party websites. These third party websites may also access user profile data in order to personalize or customize the user experience on the site.

The present disclosure generally relates to social networking systems and more specifically relates to accessing social networking systems through third party websites.

In particular embodiments a method comprising by one or more computing devices identifying at a client device one or more objects or references to the one or more objects embedded in a structured document displayed to a first user accessing a social graph to determine if one or more second users having an association with the first user have accessed any of the one or more identified objects and modifying for at least one of the one or more identified objects the structured document displayed to the first user to indicate that the at least one or more identified objects has been accessed by one or more second users.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may login to the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts. A user may also input status messages that get posted to the user s profile page.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can generally model the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

In particular embodiments an edge may be one of a plurality of edge types based at least in part on the types of nodes that the edge connects in the social graph. In particular embodiments for example each edge from a first edge type defines a connection between a pair of user nodes from the first set while each edge from a second edge type defines a connection between a user node from the first set and a concept node from the second set. Furthermore each edge from a third edge type may define a connection between a pair of concept nodes from the second set. In particular embodiments the edge itself may store or be stored with data that defines a type of connection between the pair of nodes the edge connects. In particular embodiments each edge may simply define or represent a connection between nodes regardless of the types of nodes the edge connects that is the edge itself may store or be stored with identifiers of the nodes the edge connects but may not store or be stored with data that describes a type of connection between the pair of nodes the edge connects. Furthermore in any of these or other particular embodiments data that may indicate the type of connection or relationship between nodes connected by an edge may be stored with the nodes themselves. Additional information on automatic edge generation in an integrated social graph is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 145 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

Similar to user profile pages concept profile pages hubs share information related to the concept associated with the corresponding hub node. In particular embodiments any registered user logged in to social networking system and viewing a hub may add content to the hub similar to a wiki site. A hub may also generally include a basic information section a detailed info section as well as potentially other sections any and all of which may generally be filled in by any user viewing the hub. In particular embodiments wall or news feed activities feed section or other feed or activities section of the hub displays comments status updates wall posts and other user activities associated with the user and friends of the user that are viewing the hub. The wall or news feed activities feed section or other feed or activities section of the hub may also display comments status updates wall posts and other user activities and user generated content that are related to the concept for which the hub was created. A hub may also include a photo or picture section under photos tab allowing users to upload images in or related to the concept one of which may be selected as a profile picture for the hub.

In particular embodiments user nodes and hub nodes stored in the social graph database may be connected with one another via edges. In particular embodiments each edge may be classified or characterized by an edge type of a plurality of edge types that define indicate or characterize the connection between the pair of nodes connected by the edge. In particular embodiments edges define friendship or other social relationship connections between users e.g. friends associated with the respective user nodes.

A social networking system may support a variety of applications such as photo sharing on line calendars search events and location based services. For example the social networking system may allow users to post photographs and other multimedia files to a user s profile such as in a wall post or in a photo album both of which may be accessible to other users of the social networking system. Social networking system may also allow users to configure events. For example a first user may configure an event with attributes including time and date of the event location of the event and other users invited to the event. The invited users may receive invitations to the event and respond such as by accepting the invitation or declining it . Furthermore social networking system may allow users to maintain a personal calendar. Similarly to events the calendar entries may include times dates locations and identities of other users.

The social networking system may also support a privacy model. A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user and or select settings that apply globally or to categories or types of user profile information. A privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

Client device is generally a computer or computing device including functionality for communicating over a computer network e.g. remotely . Client device may be a desktop computer laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA in or out of car navigation system smart phone or other cellular or mobile phone or mobile gaming device among other suitable mobile computing devices. Client device may execute one or more client applications such as a web browser e.g. Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Google Chrome and Opera etc. to access and view content over a computer network.

In particular embodiments client device may host a browser application or other application that processes structured documents. In particular embodiments client device may have received one or more structured documents from external website and or social networking system . In particular embodiments the structured document may be a markup language document that contains text links scripts and other attributes such as API calls identifying social network data elements of a user profile maintained by social networking system . In particular embodiments the structured document may contain instructions for example to specify how to render content for display at client device . In particular embodiments the structured document may contain instructions for example on how to access additional information from social networking system . Alternatively the instructions within structured document may contain program logic interpreted by a scripting engine on the client device .

In particular embodiments browser application may process the markup language in the structured document and render the structured document as a displayable web page. In particular embodiments the displayable web page may include content of the external website as well as one or more of the located social network data elements of the social networking system . In particular embodiments browser application may display the rendered web page on a display of client device . For example a structured document hosted by external website may contain an API call for a profile picture of a user. The browser application when processing the structured document may transmit a request to social networking system to retrieve the user s profile picture. The request may be an HTTP request and may further include a browser cookie with information identifying the user of social networking system . The browser cookie may include state and other information indicating the status of the user for example whether the user has recently logged in and or authenticated to the social networking system . Still further the structured document provided by external website may include a segment such as a div or iframe that prompts the user to log in to social network system . For example the structured document may include HTML code Javascript and other controls that cause the browser hosted by client device to access social networking system and render a login interface in a section of the displayed structured document.

In particular embodiments external website may be any website accessible on the Internet and may have various formats such as for example and without limitation text audio video images web pages documents executables etc. Examples of external website that provides audio content includes but is not limited to Pandora http www.pandora.com or Rhapsody http www.rhapsody.com etc. Examples of external website that provide video or other content include but are not limited to Hulu http www.hulu.com YouTube http www.youtube.com or The New York Times http www.nytimes.com etc. In particular embodiments external website and its contents may be stored at many different sites such as on computers and servers in databases etc. around the world. These different sites are communicatively linked to the Internet through various network infrastructures and the Uniform Resource Locator URL of external website specifies where the corresponding document is located and the mechanism for retrieving it. Any person may access the publicly available external website or its contents via a suitable network device e.g. a computer a smart mobile telephone etc. connected to the Internet.

In particular embodiments external website and social networking system may have one or more users or members. In particular embodiments users of external website may also be users of social networking system . In particular embodiments a user may interact with external website and or the social networking system using client device . In particular embodiments the social networking system may keep user profile information and the connections among the users.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may receive requests from either the external website or the client device to which the social networking system may respond with the requested information or with a subset of the requested information. Particular interactions between client device the external website and the social networking system and information exchanged between the three systems will be described later in detail. As discussed in more detail below implementations of the invention include augmented client side functionality directed to informing the user as to which social network data elements of the user the external website desires access and allows the user to control such access consistent with his or her privacy configurations.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a web server an authorization server an action logger an action log a connection database a privacy controls database and member profile database . In particular embodiments social networking system may include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system. In particular embodiments the social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein.

In particular embodiments the social networking system stores user profile data and social graph information in member profile database . In particular embodiments the social networking system stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection database . Particular embodiments of the connection database may store connection information for users who have indicated similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. In particular embodiments the social networking system may also include user defined connections between different users and those connections may be stored in connection database as well. Particular embodiments of connection database may allow users to specify their relationships with other users. In particular embodiments for example these user defined connections allows users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends relatives co workers partners and so forth. In particular embodiments users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

In particular embodiments the web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more client devices . Network generally represents a network or collection of networks such as the Internet or a corporate intranet or a combination of both over which client devices may access the external website and the social network system . In particular embodiments the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. Particular embodiments of the web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client devices . In particular embodiments the messages may be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging technique.

In particular embodiments the action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . In particular embodiments the action logger populates the action log with information about user actions in order to track them. More specifically any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in a database or other data repository such as the action log . In particular embodiments the actions taken by the members that are recorded in the action log may be actions taken by the members on the social networking system or actions taken by the members on the external website . In particular embodiments the actions taken by the members on an external website are communicated to the web server and the web server sends a request to the action logger to record the actions in the action log . In particular embodiments such actions may include for example adding a connection to the other user sending a message to the other user reading a message from the other user viewing content associated with the other user attending an event posted by another user among others. Additionally in particular embodiments actions in connection with other objects may be directed at particular users and these actions may be associated with those users as well.

In particular embodiments when a user takes an action on the social networking system the action is recorded in an action log . In particular embodiments the social networking system maintains the action log as a database of entries. In particular embodiments when an action is taken on the social networking system the social networking system adds an entry for that action to the action log .

In particular embodiments a user of the social networking system may share media hosted by external websites with the social networking system and this action may be received by action logger and stored in action log . In particular embodiments external websites may have share buttons that are operative to transmit links to the content to the social networking system and post the links as wall post entries for a user profile. In particular embodiments the buttons are operative to transmit activity stream entries to the social networking system which will post the entry in a news feed. In particular embodiments for example a user can access a photo a photo album a video clip or other media from a client device and post links to that content on the wall associated with a user profile on social networking system.

In particular embodiments privacy controls database may store a user s privacy data for a user s settings for each user datum associated with the user and the user s settings for third party applications. For example a user may have selected default privacy settings or a user may have specifically excluded certain entities from viewing a user datum or particular type of user data and all of that privacy data for all users and friends of users may be stored in the privacy controls database .

In particular embodiments a user s privacy data may comprise privacy settings associated with any aspect of the user profile including changes that the user makes to the user profile events locations media activities connections between one or more users the news feed associated with the user or any other action that the user takes in the social networking system. In particular embodiments the privacy settings associated with the privacy controls database may be provided and stored at different levels of granularity. In particular embodiments for example the information to be shared may be specific information such as work phone number or a set of related information such as personal information including several pieces of related information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively in particular embodiments the privacy settings associated with the privacy controls database may apply to all the information associated with the user in the social networking system.

In particular embodiments the specification of the set of entities that may access particular user information may also be specified at various levels of granularity. In particular embodiments the user may specify any number of entities with which information may be shared. In particular embodiments sets of entities with which information may be shared may include for example specified friends of the user all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications and all external systems. In particular embodiments for example the user may provide a list of external systems that may access certain information as well.

Particular embodiments may specify a set of entities that includes exceptions that are not allowed to access the user s information. In particular embodiments for example the user of the social networking system may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. In particular embodiments the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information of the user may be a block list. In particular embodiments external systems belonging to a block list specified by a user of the social networking system are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting stored in privacy controls database . Particular embodiments contemplate various combinations of granularity of permitted access or denial of access depending on the type of user information and sets of entities with which information may be shared or accessed by the sets of entities as specified by the user and stored in the privacy controls database .

In particular embodiments the authorization server enforces the privacy settings of the users of the social networking system such as described above with respect to the privacy policy. In particular embodiments the privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user may be shared. In particular embodiments as described above the privacy controls database comprises the privacy data for a user s settings for each user datum associated with the user and the user s settings for third party applications. More specifically the privacy data for a user s settings may specify particular information associated with a user and the entity or entities with whom the information may be shared. In particular embodiments the entities with which information may be shared may include users third party applications external websites or any other entity that can potentially access the information. In particular embodiments the information that may be shared by a user may comprise any aspect of the user profile events locations media activities or the news feed associated with the user.

In particular embodiments HTML may enable a page developer to create a structured document by denoting structural semantics for text and links as well as images web applications and other objects that can be embedded within the page. Generally a web page may be delivered to a client as a static document however through the use of web elements embedded in the page an interactive experience may be achieved with the page or a sequence of pages. The web browser obtains the required resources e.g. in response to executing JavaScripts or other calls embedded in a requested and received structured document and which may include HTML or XML code and or JavaScript scripts and or content including text audio and video for rendering the webpage from one or more servers and then constructs a browser representation of the webpage. In particular embodiments the browser processes the structured document and creates an in memory representation of the document. The representation may be a Document Object Model DOM representation of the webpage. The web browser then renders the page in the particular client viewing window of the browser utilizing the DOM or other suitable representation.

Typically a web browser is used to access a webpage or other structured document for rendering at a client device. A web browser application is generally a computer program configured to run on a user s computing device e.g. client device that enables the user to connect to various server hosted webpages available over a network. A non exhaustive set of common web browsers include by way of example Internet Explorer Firefox Safari and Opera . The web browser provides a standard viewing window that displays the informational and visual content of the webpage or website the term website and webpage may be used interchangeably herein where appropriate . The URL of the website presently being rendered and viewed is displayed in the address box of the web browser GUI. The address box enables a user to input an address e.g. a URL for a desired target webpage. The content of the website generally includes graphical images text and or hyperlinks e.g. comprising code segments that redirect the web browser and user to another portion of the webpage or to a subsequent webpage altogether without requiring manual input of the subsequent webpage s address . In various example embodiments the webpage can also include audio video and other types of web content. To facilitate navigation of the rendered page the web browser GUI may include scrolling bars or buttons. By clicking and or dragging these bars or buttons a user may selectively view other portions of the webpage which do not entirely fit the immediately viewable areas of the GUI rendered by the web browser.

Particular embodiments relate to a plug in software application hereinafter referred to as social enhancement application that operates or executes in the context of a browser e.g. a web browser or other application client that consumes structured documents. In other implementations the functionality described herein can be incorporated directly into a browser client application as opposed to being a plug in.

Particular embodiments identify at a client device one or more objects or references to the one or more objects embedded in a structured document displayed to a first user as illustrated in step . As described above when a structured document is requested having HTML or other markup language content such as objects or references within a structured document it is received by the web browser in order to process the page so that the web browser may render and display the webpage. Typically the application and or web browser at a client device requires access to one or more objects or resources provided at one or more backend servers of the website. In particular embodiments the objects or references that are displayed to the first user are identified.

Particular embodiments access a social graph to determine if one or more second users having an association with the first user have accessed any of the one or more identified objects as illustrated in step . As described above social graph information is maintained by a social networking system. In particular embodiments associations between the first user and any one or more second users may be represented by one or more edges and nodes within the social graph as described above. In particular embodiments a first user may have an association with a second user if an edge exists between them in the social graph. In particular embodiments if any one or more of the associated second users have accessed any of the one or more identified objects there will also be edges between the second users and those objects.

Particular embodiments generate data indicating an edge relationship from the first object and the user responsive to any detected user interaction by a user with any object of the structured document. In particular embodiments objects may have an edge type as described above. In particular embodiments the data stored in the social graph may be a list of URLs that a user has accessed. In particular embodiments interactions may be past or current user interactions with objects or references in the displayed structured document.

Particular embodiments transmit the recorded data from all users to the social networking system where the data is stored within the social graph. In particular embodiments the browser or plug in records all click stream activity for all users that have interacted with objects and references of the displayed structured document and transmits data representing the click stream activity to the social networking system where it is stored within the social graph. In particular embodiments the data structure in the back end would store an index of URL or object identifiers and UserIDs.

In particular embodiments the browser or plug in queries the social networking system and accesses the social graph data to determine if any second users having an association with the first user in the social graph have interacted with objects or references of the displayed structured document. In particular embodiments the browser or plug in would query URLs or other object or references in the structured document that have been accessed look up the user IDs for the second users that have accessed the URLs or other objects or references in the structured document and then use the first user s user ID to compare to the set of second users that have accessed URLs or other objects or references in the structured document. In particular embodiments if there are no second users having an association with the first user in the social graph that have interacted with objects or references of the displayed structured document then a set of aggregate interaction statistics for all other users may be displayed.

In particular embodiments for example if any one of the one or more second users have read an article on http www.nytimes.com there will be a read edge between the second user and the article that is transmitted to the social network system and stored within the social graph. In particular embodiments when the browser queries the social networking system for second users having an association with the first user it may use the URL of the article as well as the UserID of the second users when comparing to the UserID of the first user. In particular embodiments the second user may be any one of the first user s first and possibly second degree contacts or associations. Still further for example if any one of the one or more second users have read and liked the article there will be both a read and a like edge associated with the second user and that article. In particular embodiments if no users have a first second degree or any association with the first user then the aggregate statistics may be that 1 200 people have watched this and these aggregate statistics may be displayed in association with the article.

In particular embodiments accessing the social graph to determine if one or more second users having an association with the first user have accessed any of the one or more identified objects may be conditioned on a set of user preferences of the first user of the social networking system. In particular embodiments the user preferences that allow the browser or application to access the social graph may be associated with the privacy settings and other information stored in privacy controls database . In particular embodiments one or more aspects of the user s privacy settings may be stored locally and or synchronized with privacy controls database at the browser application in the client device to obviate the need for remote access.

In particular embodiments as described above with respect to privacy controls database a user may store privacy settings and may specify particular entities third party applications or website domains that may or may not be allowed to access the user s information in the social networking system. In particular embodiments the user s privacy settings may grant full access to all third party entities third party applications or website domains. In particular embodiments the user s privacy settings may restrict specific entities third party application or website domains. In particular embodiments the user s privacy settings may limit or grant access to particular types of social network data. In particular embodiments the user s privacy settings may grant access to the user s social network data but in such a way that the user remains anonymous.

In particular embodiments where the user has no set of preferences for granting permission to access the social graph the user may be prompted to login to the social networking system. In particular embodiments where the user logs into the social networking system the social graph data will then be exchanged between social networking system and external website .

Particular embodiments modify for at least one of the one or more identified objects the structured document displayed to the first user to indicate that the at least one or more identified objects has been accessed by one or more second users as illustrated in step . In particular embodiments the browser modifies the page to indicate which friends have viewed or accessed the object based on the references and objects identified in the page. In particular embodiments modifications may be but not by way of limitation displaying profile pictures of second users that have interacted with the object when the first user mouses over a link to the object and changing the color font type size or style of the displayed object and so forth.

In particular embodiments in order to modify the structured document the application accesses the DOM or other suitable representation of the currently rendered structured document generated by the web browser. In particular embodiments the application may modify or cause to be modified the DOM representation of the target webpage without necessarily modifying the native HTML or other markup language cone or content transmitted to the browser for rendering the target webpage which is generally stored separately to indicate that the objects within the structured document have been accessed by one or more second users. In particular embodiments the modified DOM representation may display objects on the structured document as highlighted colored bolded or any other such modification that would indicate that objects have been accessed by one ore more second users. In particular embodiments the modified DOM representation may display an overlay panel or a sidebar that indicates that at least one or more identified objects have been accessed by one or more second users.

In particular embodiments as illustrated in the display on the example external website may be modified to display a structured document that indicates that at one or more identified objects has been accessed by one or more second users. In particular embodiments objects may be highlighted colored bolded or any other such modification that would indicate that objects have been accessed by one ore more second users. In particular embodiments objects may have small icons displayed near them that indicate that the objects have been accessed by one or more second users. In particular embodiments the display on the external website itself may be modified. In particular embodiments the modification may not be revealed until the first user mouses over objects .

In particular embodiments the structured document displayed to the first user to indicate that the at least one or more identified objects has been accessed by the one or more second users may display social network data elements of the one or more second users proximal to the one or more identified objects. In particular embodiments as illustrated in social network data of the one or more second users may be displayed proximal the one or more identified objects of the displayed structured document such as panel Particular embodiments illustrate that panel is an overlay of the structured document whereas panel is proximal to structured document . Particular embodiments in any case demonstrate that panel and are proximal to the one or more identified objects.

In particular embodiments panel and may display any social network data elements of the user profile of each one or more second users. As described above various information is provided by the user when registering with the social networking system. In particular embodiments any profile information associated with each one or more second users may be displayed in panel and such as the second user s profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment educational background preferences interests and other demographical information including social graph data that the second user has generated as a result of accessing or interacting with objects or references of the structured document of the external website . In particular embodiments for example if a second user associated with the first user had read and liked an article at http www.nytimes.com then data indicating that an edge exists between the second user and that article would be displayed in panel and Additionally in particular embodiments for example panel and may display the second user s profile picture and other profile information as well.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system that may be used to implement a server. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate. The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

