---

title: Authentication of virtual machine images using digital certificates
abstract: A vendor of virtual machine images accesses a virtual computer system service to upload a digitally signed virtual machine image to a data store usable by customers of the virtual computer system service to select an image for creating a virtual machine instance. If a digital certificate is uploaded along with the virtual machine image, the virtual computer system service may determine whether the digital certificate has been trusted for use. If the digital certificate has been trusted for use, the virtual computer system service may use a public cryptographic key to decrypt a hash signature included with the image to obtain a first hash value. The service may additionally apply a hash function to the image itself to obtain a second hash value. If the two hash values match, then the virtual machine image may be deemed to be authentic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09158909&OS=09158909&RS=09158909
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09158909
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140304
---
Computing technologies evolved and continue to evolve to keep up with the demands of the organizations that use them. Many organizations for example utilize a virtual computer system service for among other reasons remotely operating one or more virtual machine instances. These virtual machine instances may be created using a virtual machine image that comprises a software configuration which may include an operating system that defines the operating environment for the virtual machine instances. These virtual machine images may be made available through a variety of sources. Despite their many advantages it may be difficult to determine whether the virtual machine image used for creating a virtual machine instance is authentic or is being provided by a trusted source. Thus the organizations that utilize these virtual computer systems may bear the risk of creating one or more virtual machine instances that may comprise malicious software which in turn may reduce the security of their own infrastructures.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Techniques described and suggested herein relate to the use of digital certificates to authenticate one or more virtual machine images for use in creating virtual machine instances. In an embodiment an entity e.g. an organization can communicate with a virtual computer system service such as through appropriately configured application programming interface API calls to the service to request creation of a vendor account. The entity may be a vendor or other machine image provider that may utilize a computing resource service provider account to create and provide various virtual machine images that may be used by customers of the computing resource service provider to create new virtual machine instances. In addition to the request the vendor may authenticate with the computing resource service provider such as by providing the virtual computer system service with one or more credentials and or information derived therefrom e.g. a digital signature which may be used to verify the identity of the vendor. Accordingly if the virtual computer system service is able to verify the identity of the vendor the virtual computer system service may grant the vendor permission to attach a digital certificate to each virtual machine image introduced by the vendor. The digital certificates in turn can be used by the virtual computer system service to verify each virtual machine image introduced by the vendor actually came from the vendor. Alternatively the vendor may provide a digital certificate of his her own which the virtual computer system service may persistently store within a trust store for verification of the vendor provided virtual machine images. The vendor may create one or more virtual machine images digitally sign these one or more virtual machine images and include the agreed upon digital certificate.

In some embodiments the vendor may upload the one or more virtual machine images to the virtual computer system service. The one or more virtual machine images may be uploaded to the virtual computer system service along with a digital certificate which the virtual computer system service may utilize to determine whether the one or more virtual machine images may be added to the marketplace. For instance if the digital certificate included with the one or more virtual machine images was created by the vendor the virtual computer system service may access a trust store to determine whether the digital certificate may be trusted. Alternatively if the virtual computer system service has previously provided the digital certificate to the vendor for use in signing the virtual machine images the virtual computer system service may allow any virtual machine images that include this digital certificate to be added to the marketplace. Once the one or more virtual machine images are added to the marketplace the virtual computer system service may include an indicator e.g. icon message etc. next to the entry in the marketplace to indicate that these virtual machine images have been deemed to be from a trusted vendor.

In an embodiment the virtual computer system service may provide customers with the option to individually verify the authenticity of a vendor digital certificate in order to ensure that the virtual machine images are authentic. For instance if the customer selects a virtual machine image from a plurality of virtual machine images in a computing resource service provider marketplace the customer may be granted access to one or more modules of executable code or applications provided by the virtual computer system service to verify that the virtual machine image is authentic. In an embodiment the customer may use these one or more applications to hash the virtual machine image itself and obtain a first hash value often referred to as a digest . The customer may further utilize these one or more applications to obtain the vendor s public cryptographic key from the digital certificate to decrypt a signature included in the virtual machine image and obtain a second hash value. If these two hash values match then the customer may determine that the digital signature is valid and he she can trust the virtual machine image for use in creating a virtual machine instance.

In an embodiment a customer of the virtual computer system service may select a virtual machine image from the marketplace to launch a new virtual machine instance. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may evaluate one or more customer and or virtual machine image policies that place restrictions on launching virtual machine instances from the virtual machine image. For instance a customer can add policy that specifies the subnet or characteristics within a subnet within a virtual network a virtual machine instance can be launched e.g. restrictions based on whether the subnet has an Internet gateway attached to it whether the subnet has been tagged with a certain label whether the subnet has instances of a certain type or from a certain vendor etc. . In the same or another configuration the virtual machine image itself may include a set of policies set by the vendor that replace restrictions on using the image to create instances. If the virtual computer system service determines based at least in part on an evaluation of the customer and or virtual machine image policies that the customer may generate a virtual machine instance using the selected virtual machine image the virtual computer system service may instantiate the virtual machine image to a physical host and enable the customer to use the newly created virtual machine instance.

In this manner a vendor may utilize a private cryptographic key to digitally sign a virtual machine image and include a digital certificate comprising a public cryptographic key in order to provide a method for authentication of the virtual machine image for the computing resource service provider and the customers that utilize virtual machine images to create one or more virtual machine instances. In addition the techniques described and suggested herein facilitate additional technical advantages. For example because in some embodiments the virtual computer system service can verify the authenticity of a virtual machine image based at least in part on its digital signature the virtual computer system service may be able to filter virtual machine images based at least in part on which images may be cryptographically verifiably authentic. This in turn may allow customers of the computing resource service provider to obtain authentic virtual machine images from the marketplace without need to further verify the authenticity of the selected virtual machine image.

Accordingly as illustrated in the environment includes a customer . The customer may be an individual or organization that could utilize one or more services provided by the computing resource service provider to remotely manage computing resources to support his or her operations such as webpage development or database management. The customer may through a customer computing device submit one or more requests to a virtual computer system service provided by the computing system service provider to configure a virtual machine instance which may be used to support the customer s needs. For instance in an embodiment the customer may access a marketplace provided by the virtual computer system service to select an appropriate virtual machine image from a virtual machine image data store . The selected virtual machine image may comprise an operating system and additional applications which may be used to support a virtual machine instance. This selected virtual machine image may be added to a listing of virtual machine images that may be utilized by the customer to instantiate a new virtual machine instance. Thus when a customer selects an appropriate virtual machine image from the listing the virtual computer system service may instantiate this virtual machine image to a physical host provided by the computing resource service provider and enable the customer to utilize the newly created virtual machine instance.

The virtual machine images stored within the virtual machine image data store may originate from a plurality of sources. For instance the computing resource service provider may create one or more virtual machine images for creating virtual machine instances in order to provide a customer with a single source for all of his her computing needs. Additionally the virtual computer system service may enable other entities including its own customers and third party vendors to create and upload virtual machine images to the virtual machine image data store to provide customers with greater variety in selecting a virtual machine image for creating a virtual machine instance.

Accordingly as illustrated in the environment includes a vendor . The vendor may also be an individual or organization that could utilize the virtual computer system service provided by the computing resource service provider to create and or make available one or more virtual machine images for purchase. The vendor may through a vendor computing device submit one or more requests to a virtual computer system service provided by the computing system service provider to request creation of a vendor account usable for uploading virtual machine images to the virtual machine image data store . Within the one or more requests the vendor may provide credential information which may be used by the virtual computer system service to verify the vendor s identity. Once the vendor s identity has been verified the virtual computer system service may provide a digital certificate to the vendor which the vendor may attach to a digitally signed virtual machine image that may be uploaded to the virtual machine image data store . Alternatively the vendor may be granted access to a trusted network connection which may be used to upload the virtual machine images to the virtual machine image data store . Accordingly the virtual computer system service may digitally sign each of these virtual machine images and confirm that each of these virtual machine images is authentic.

When a customer selects a virtual machine image from the virtual machine image data store the virtual computer system service may determine whether the customer is authorized to utilize this virtual machine image to create a new virtual machine instance. For instance the customer may create one or more policies to define a level of access to resources provided by certain vendors. This may include allowing virtual machine images from a certain vendor to be used to generate virtual machine instances for the customer . Alternatively the policies may include a list of vendors whose resources are not to be used. In an embodiment a vendor may also attach one or more policies to his her virtual machine images to determine which entities may utilize these virtual machine images. For instance if a customer currently utilizes one or more resources from a competitor of the vendor or that may conflict with a virtual machine image provided by the vendor the vendor may generate a policy to prohibit this customer from utilizing his her virtual machine images. Thus based at least in part on the policies defined by the customer and or included within the selected virtual machine image itself the virtual computer system service may determine whether the selected virtual machine image may be used to support a new virtual machine instance on behalf of the customer .

As noted above a computing resource service provider may provide various computing resource services to its customers. For instance in this particular illustrative example the computing resource service provider provides at least two types of services. The services provided by the computing resource service provider in this example include a virtual computer system service a data storage service an identity management service and one or more other services although not all embodiments of the present disclosure will include all such services and additional services may be provided in addition to or as an alternative to services explicitly described herein.

The virtual computer system service may be a collection of computing resources configured to instantiate virtual machine instances onto virtual computer systems on behalf of the customers of the computing resource service provider . Customers of the computing resource service provider may interact with the virtual computer system service to provision and operate virtual computer systems that are instantiated on physical computing devices hosted e.g. physical hosts and operated by the computing resource service provider . The virtual computer systems may be used for various purposes such as to operate as servers supporting a website. Other applications for the virtual computer systems may be to support database applications electronic commerce applications business applications and or other applications.

When a customer interacts with the virtual computer system service to provision a virtual machine instance the customer may gain access to a variety of resources. For instance a virtual machine instance may provision a virtual machine image which may include an operating system and a variety of applications depending on the customer s needs. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may enable the customer to select a virtual machine image from a plurality of virtual machine images. The virtual computer system service may be configured to determine whether the customer is permitted to utilize the selected virtual machine image to create a new virtual machine instance. As noted above the virtual computer system service may evaluate one or more customer and or virtual machine image policies to determine whether the customer is allowed or prohibited from using the virtual machine image to create a virtual machine instance. For instance as will be described in greater detail below the virtual computer system service may interact with the identity management service to identify these one or more customer and or virtual machine image policies and based at least in part on these policies determine whether the customer may use the selected virtual machine image to create the virtual machine instance.

The virtual computer system service may further allow one or more vendors to upload a variety of virtual machine images to a virtual machine image data store which may be used by one or more customers to create virtual machine instances. For instance in an embodiment a vendor may interact with the virtual computer system service to create a vendor account usable to upload virtual machine images to the virtual machine image data store. The vendor may provide credential information within the request to create the account which the virtual computer system service may utilize to verify the identity of the vendor. Subsequently the virtual computer system service may grant the vendor a digital certificate that the vendor may attach to a digitally signed virtual machine image that is to be uploaded to the virtual machine image data store.

When a vendor attempts to upload a virtual machine image to the virtual machine image data store the virtual computer system service may determine whether the virtual machine image has been digitally signed and if so decrypt the signature to determine whether a hash of the virtual machine image matches the decrypted signature. If there is a match then the virtual computer system service may authenticate the virtual machine image and make it available to its customers through a marketplace. Thus a customer may utilize the marketplace provided by the virtual computer system service to select a trusted virtual machine image and if desired personally verify the authenticity of the virtual machine image by performing a verification process of the vendor s digital signature included with the selected virtual machine image. While obtaining a hash of the virtual machine image is used extensively throughout the present disclosure for the purpose of illustration a hash may be obtained of some portion of the image sufficient to perform the authentication of the virtual machine image. For instance the virtual computer system service may be configured to hash an executable portion or some other portion of the virtual machine image deemed to be important in order to authenticate the entire virtual machine image.

The data storage service may comprise a collection of computing resources that collectively operate to store data for a customer . The data stored in the data storage service may be organized into data objects. The data objects may have arbitrary sizes except perhaps for certain constraints on size. Thus the data storage service may store numerous data objects of varying sizes. The data storage service may operate as a key value store that associates data objects with identifiers of the data objects which may be used by the customer to retrieve or perform other operations in connection with the data objects stored by the data storage service . Access to the data storage service may be through one or more API calls appropriately configured to cause one or more actions to be performed by the data storage service .

The identity management service may provide a variety of services to enable customers to define a level of access to other services such as those illustrated in provided by the computing resource service provider and to define a level of access to resources provided by the customers and other vendors. Accordingly a customer may access the identity management service to create and manage one or more users and groups that may utilize the services provided by the computing resource service provider . A customer may utilize the identity management service to generate one or more policies which may be used to define a level of access to virtual machine images provided by certain vendors.

When a customer or other user utilizes the virtual computer system service to select a virtual machine image to generate a new virtual machine instance the virtual computer system service may access the identity management service to determine if the customer or other user is authorized to utilize the selected virtual machine image. The identity management service can obtain from a data store all the policy attached to the requestor as well as the image and the policy attached to the images used to launch virtual computer systems already within a customer s virtual network. The identity management service can then evaluate the policies to determine whether to grant or deny the request. In an example embodiment the policies could include a set of policy statements for allowing virtual machine images from a certain vendor to be used to generate virtual machine instances for the customer or other user so long as the images have digital signatures attached to the images from the certain vendors. Similarly the policy statements may include a list of vendors whose resources are not to be used or other restrictions based on characteristics of the virtual network. A vendor of virtual machine images can also generate one or more policies that are associated with his her virtual machine images to determine which entities may utilize these virtual machine images to generate virtual machine instances. For instance if a customer utilizes one or more resources from a competitor of the vendor or that may conflict with a virtual machine image provided by the vendor the vendor may generate a policy to prohibit this customer from utilizing these virtual machine images.

The computing resource service provider may additionally maintain one or more other services based on the needs of its customers . For instance the computing resource service provider may maintain a database service for its customers . A database service may be a collection of computing resources that collectively operate to run one or more databases for one or more customers . Customers of the computing resource service provider may operate and manage a database from the database service by utilizing appropriately configured API calls to the service. This in turn may allow a customer to maintain and potentially scale the operations in the database. Other services include but are not limited to object level data storage services object level archival data storage services services that manage other services and or other services.

As noted above a virtual computer system service may be used by one or more customers to provision a virtual machine instance for a variety of uses. The virtual computer system service may permit a customer to access a marketplace in order to select a virtual machine image comprising an operating system and a variety of applications that may enable a customer to perform certain functions e.g. maintain one or more databases store client information develop web applications etc. . This virtual machine image may be used to create a virtual machine instance. Accordingly shows an illustrative example of an environment that includes various components of a virtual computer system service in accordance with at least one embodiment. The virtual computer system service may provide customers with an interface that may enable a customer to access the virtual computer system service . A customer may utilize the interface through one or more communications networks such as the Internet. The interface may contain certain security safeguards to ensure that the customer has authorization to access the virtual computer system service . For instance in order to access the virtual computer system service a customer may need to provide a username and a corresponding password or encryption key when using the interface . Additionally requests e.g. API calls submitted to the interface may require an electronic signature generated using a cryptographic key such that the electronic signature is verifiable by the virtual computer system service such as by an authorization system not shown .

Once the customer has gained access to the virtual computer system service through the interface the virtual computer system service may allow the customer to interact through the interface with a management sub system . For instance the management sub system may enable a customer to remotely provision a virtual machine instance. A customer may use the interface and the management sub system to generate a virtual machine instance that includes an operating system and a variety of applications suited to the customer s needs. The operating system and the various applications may be maintained in data storage in the form of machine images in a virtual machine image data store . The virtual computer system service may maintain a variety of machine images in the virtual machine image data store based on specific customer preferences as specified in the management sub system . When a customer submits a request for provisioning a virtual machine instance through the management sub system the virtual computer system service may identify the machine image the customer has requested and allocate the resources necessary e.g. the processors and random access memory RAM required to operate the components of the machine image to process the machine image. The machine image may be instantiated on one or more physical storage devices e.g. one or more servers or hard drives that may act as a physical host for the instance.

The machine images stored within the machine image data store may be provided by one or more vendors of virtual machine images through a marketplace provided by the computing resource service provider. In an embodiment a vendor accesses the marketplace to generate a new vendor account which may be used to generate and upload virtual machine images. In order to generate this new vendor account the vendor may be required to provide to the marketplace a set of credentials usable by the marketplace to verify the identity of the vendor. Accordingly the marketplace may access an identity management service to utilize the set of credentials to verify the identity of the vendor. If the marketplace through the identity management service is able to verify the identity of the vendor the marketplace may access a trust store to obtain a digital certificate that may be assigned to the vendor. A trust store may be a data store comprising one or more physical storage devices for storage of a plurality of digital certificates. This digital certificate may be attached to any digitally signed virtual machine images created by the vendor such that the digital certificate and the digitally signed virtual machine images may be uploaded to the virtual machine image data store . Alternatively the vendor if verified may provide his her own digital certificate or other cryptographic key to the trust store which the management sub system or marketplace may access and utilize to verify the authenticity of an uploaded virtual machine image.

In an embodiment the vendor can further upload one or more customer and or virtual machine image policies for each uploaded virtual machine image to the identity management service to define a level of access to each of the uploaded virtual machine images for the one or more customers of the computing resource service provider. Accordingly when a customer selects a virtual machine image from the marketplace to be used to instantiate a new virtual machine instance the virtual computer system service may communicate with the identity management service and determine if there are any applicable policies for this customer for the selected virtual machine image for the virtual network the customer is attempting to launch an instance in etc. Based at least in part on these policies the identity management service may either allow or deny a customer request to utilize the selected virtual machine image in the way requested. Additionally or alternatively when a customer uses the interface and the management sub system to generate a virtual machine instance utilizing a particular virtual machine image the management sub system may access the identity management service to identify and evaluate one or more customer and or virtual machine image policies to determine whether the customer is permitted to utilize the selected virtual machine image to generate the virtual machine instance.

As noted above if the vendor of the selected virtual machine image has created a policy that places restrictions on its use such as a restriction that prevents use of the image to launch an instance in to a subnet that has an Internet Gateway the management sub system may prevent the customer from using the selected virtual machine image. Alternatively if a customer has generated a customer policy that would prohibit use of virtual machine images provided by a particular vendor the management sub system may prevent a user of the customer account to utilize these virtual machine images. If the management sub system determines that the customer may utilize the selected virtual machine image to create a virtual machine instance the virtual computer system service may allocate the resources necessary e.g. the processors and RAM required to operate the components of the machine image to process the machine image. The machine image may be instantiated on one or more physical storage devices e.g. one or more servers or hard drives that may act as a physical host for the instance.

When a customer uses the interface and the management sub system to generate a virtual machine instance the customer may select a virtual machine image from the marketplace . Accordingly the management sub system may evaluate the customer the virtual network and or virtual machine image policies as noted above to verify that the customer is authorized to utilize the selected virtual machine image. If the customer and or a particular user associated with the customer is authorized to utilize the virtual machine image the management sub system may obtain the selected virtual machine image from the machine images data store . The customer may utilize one or more applications provided by the management sub system to independently verify that the selected virtual machine image is authentic. For instance if the virtual machine image is provided to the customer along with a corresponding digital signature the customer may utilize these one or more applications to apply a hash function to the virtual machine image to obtain a hash value or digest. Subsequently the customer may utilize a cryptographic key to decrypt the digital signature and compare the signature hash value to the obtained hash value. If these hash values match the customer may be able to verify that the virtual machine image is authentic. In an embodiment each virtual machine image can include one or more components wherein at least one of these components is digitally signed. For instance each virtual machine image may include a manifest that includes metadata associated with certain specifications of the virtual machine image. This manifest may be digitally signed instead of the entire virtual machine image particularly if the virtual machine image is of sufficient size. Thus the customer may be able to verify the authenticity of the virtual machine image based at least in part on the digitally signed manifest of the selected virtual machine image.

As noted above a customer may utilize a marketplace to acquire one or more virtual machine images which may be used through a virtual computer system service to request creation of a new virtual machine instance. Through an interface a customer may be able to access a marketplace that includes a listing of one or more virtual machine images that may be acquired and used to create the virtual machine instance. Accordingly shows an illustrative example of an environment that includes an interface for selecting one or more trusted virtual machine images that may be used within a virtual computer system service to create a virtual machine instance in accordance with at least one embodiment. As noted above when a vendor requests creation of a vendor account for uploading one or more virtual machine images to a marketplace or other data store for use by customers of the virtual computer system service the virtual computer system service may issue the vendor a digital certificate which the vendor attach to these digitally signed virtual machine images. Accordingly when a vendor utilizes the vendor account to upload a virtual machine image the virtual computer system service may utilize the virtual machine image as well as the digital signature and the digital certificate to determine whether the image is valid. If the digital signature matches the hash of the virtual machine image a portion of the virtual machine image or other data signed with the private key of the vendor then the virtual machine image may be trusted.

The virtual computer system service may configure the interface to display only these trusted virtual machine images to its customers. For instance as illustrated in the interface may include a trusted images tab that when selected by a customer of the virtual computer system service may cause the interface to display the trusted virtual machine images available in the marketplace. In this illustrative example there are at least three trusted virtual machine images. These virtual machine images may be provided by different vendors each of which may have been verified by the virtual computer system service using cryptographic material with the vendors. For instance a vendor may provide a set of credential information e.g. user name and password cryptographic keys etc. to the virtual computer system service when the vendor requests creation of a vendor account. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may utilize this credential information to verify the identity of the vendor and determine whether an account may be created. The credential information can then be used to create a digital certificate and sign the image.

Further each virtual machine image as noted above may be uploaded to the virtual computer system service along with a digital certificate and a digital signature which may be created by encrypting a hash of the virtual machine image with a private cryptographic key of a cryptographic key pair. Upon receiving the virtual machine image the virtual computer system service may utilize a public key included within the digital certificate to decrypt the digital signature and obtain a hash value. Subsequently the virtual computer system service may compute a hash value for the virtual machine image and compare this value to the hash value obtained by decrypting the digital signature to determine if there is a match. If the values match then the virtual machine image may be deemed to be authentic. Accordingly the virtual machine image is added to a list of trusted virtual machine images which are then displayed under the trusted images tab in the interface . Thus a customer using the interface may know that the virtual machine images listed under the trusted images tab have been verified by the virtual computer system service. Additionally the virtual computer system service may cause the interface to further display an indication with each of these trusted virtual machine images which the customer may use to verify that a virtual machine image is authentic.

Once the customer has determined which virtual machine image he she wants to utilize to create the new virtual machine instance the customer may through the interface utilize a select button next to the listed virtual machine image under the trusted images tab to select the virtual machine image. The virtual computer system service upon detecting that the customer has utilized the select button for a particular virtual machine image may obtain the virtual machine image from a virtual machine image data store and make the virtual machine image available such that the customer may access the virtual computer system service select the virtual machine image from a list of acquired virtual machine images and instantiate the virtual machine image onto a physical host to enable the customer to utilize the newly created virtual machine instance. Alternatively the virtual computer system service may provide the customer with a method to independently verify that the virtual machine image selected is authentic before acquisition of the virtual machine image. For instance when a customer selects a virtual machine image from the trusted images tab the virtual computer system service may cause the interface to display a new screen which may include one or more applications that may be used to determine whether the digital signature included with the selected virtual machine image is valid. Accordingly the customer may utilize these one or more applications to determine whether the digital signature and hence the virtual machine image are authentic.

The virtual computer system service may further configure the interface to include one or more other buttons for use by the customer. For instance as illustrated in the interface may include a cancel button which a customer may utilize to exit the interface and thereby cancel his her request to acquire the image. It should be noted that the interface illustrated in is presented for the purpose of illustration and accordingly may include one or more additional elements or may exclude one or more elements illustrated in . For instance in addition to the trusted images tab the interface may include one or more additional tabs that include a listing of virtual machine images that have not been authenticated by the virtual computer system service or otherwise do not include a digital signature. Thus a customer may be able to select a virtual machine image that has not been authenticated at his her own risk.

As noted above the virtual computer system service may additionally provide an interface to one or more vendors to enable these vendors to upload virtual machine images to a virtual machine image data store. Accordingly shows an illustrative example of an environment that includes an interface for uploading a virtual machine image to a virtual machine image data store in accordance with at least one embodiment. As noted above when a vendor submits a request to the virtual computer system service to create a vendor account for uploading virtual machine images to the virtual machine image data store the vendor may provide additional credential information which may be used by the virtual computer system service to verify the identity of the vendor. If the identity of the vendor is verified by the virtual computer system service the virtual computer system service may provide the vendor with a digital certificate which may be uploaded along with a digitally signed virtual machine image to the virtual machine image data store. Alternatively the vendor may provide the virtual computer system service with a digital certificate which the virtual computer system service may store within a trust store. Thus when a vendor includes his her digital certificate with a digitally signed virtual machine image the virtual computer system service may utilize the digital certificate stored within the trust store to verify the authenticity of the virtual machine image.

The virtual computer system service may configure the interface to include one or more elements usable by a vendor to upload a virtual machine image. For instance the interface may include a company name input box which a vendor may be required to utilize to provide the virtual computer system service with a name for the vendor. For instance as illustrated in the vendor has utilized the company name input box to state that his her company name is Boom Virtual Machine Images Inc. The interface may further include a product name input box which a vendor may utilize to provide a name for the virtual machine image that is to be uploaded to the virtual machine image data store. For instance as illustrated in the vendor has utilized the product name input box to provide a name to his her virtual machine image in this case Legion Virtual Machine Image. The virtual computer system service may require both the company name and product name for the virtual machine image in order to enable customers of the virtual computer system to determine the identity of the vendor who has provided the virtual machine image as well as to differentiate the virtual machine image from any others stored within the virtual machine image data store.

In addition to the one or more elements usable by the vendor to provide virtual machine image information the virtual computer system service may configure the interface to include a digital certificate menu which the vendor may utilize to select a digital certificate that may be included with the digitally signed virtual machine image that is to be uploaded to the virtual machine image data store. As noted above when a vendor initially creates a vendor account the virtual computer system service may confirm the identity of the vendor and provide this vendor with a digital certificate that may be attached to any digitally signed virtual machine images that are to be uploaded to the virtual machine image data store. Alternatively the virtual computer system service may provide a vendor with a digital certificate for each virtual machine image that is to be uploaded to the virtual machine image data store. Accordingly the vendor may utilize the digital certificate menu to select an appropriate digital certificate e.g. Sherman VMI Inc as illustrated in which may be included with the virtual machine image. Once the virtual machine image has been digitally signed the virtual computer system service may utilize the digital certificate to obtain a public key usable to decrypt the digital signature and obtain a hash value. Subsequently the virtual computer system service may utilize a hash function to hash the virtual machine image and obtain a second hash value. If these hash values match then the virtual machine image may be deemed to be authentic. In some embodiments the virtual computer system service can utilize the public key within the digital certificate to decrypt the virtual machine image. If the virtual machine image is successfully decrypted then the virtual machine image may be deemed to be authentic.

Once the vendor has provided a company and virtual machine image name and has selected an appropriate digital certificate the vendor may utilize a continue button to digitally sign the virtual machine image and upload the virtual machine image along with the selected digital certificate to the virtual machine image data store. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may perform the digital signature verification process described above to verify the authenticity of the uploaded virtual machine image. The virtual computer system service may further include one or more additional elements in the interface which the vendor may utilize for a variety of purposes. For instance as illustrated in the interface may include a cancel button which a vendor may utilize to exit the interface and terminate the process to upload a virtual machine image. It should be noted that the interface illustrated in is presented for the purpose of illustration and accordingly may include one or more additional elements or may exclude one or more elements illustrated in . For instance in addition to the digital certificate menu the interface may include one or more additional buttons that may enable the vendor to upload a virtual machine image without a digital certificate. Accordingly these virtual machine images may not be verified.

As noted above a vendor may communicate with a virtual computer system service in order to create a vendor account which the vendor may use to upload one or more virtual machine images to a virtual machine image data store managed by the virtual computer system service. Accordingly shows an illustrative example of a process for creating a vendor account and issuing a digital certificate to a vendor for use in making virtual machine images available in accordance with at least one embodiment. The process may be performed by a virtual computer system service configured to verify the identity of any entity making a request through the service and to issue digital certificates which a vendor may attach to any digitally signed virtual machine images that are to be uploaded. As noted above a vendor may utilize an interface provided by the virtual computer system service to request creation of a vendor account. This vendor account may be used to upload virtual machine images to a virtual machine image data store in order to allow customers to utilize these virtual machine images. Accordingly customers may provide payment to the vendor for use of his her virtual machine images. Thus creation of a vendor account may be profitable for a vendor as the vendor may be able to monetize his her virtual machine images if they are uploaded to the virtual machine image data store. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may receive a request from a vendor to create a vendor account.

The request provided by the vendor may include credential information which may be used by the virtual computer system service to verify the identity of the vendor. For instance if the vendor is a customer of the computing resource service provider the vendor may provide a username and password which may be used to access the one or more services provided by the computing resource service provider. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may utilize the username and password to locate a customer profile and obtain information regarding the vendor. For instance this may include the name of the vendor the physical address for the vendor and other vendor information. With this information the virtual computer system service may be able to determine whether the vendor that has submitted the request is a trusted vendor. A trusted vendor may be a customer of the computing resource service provider that has maintained an account for at least a particular period of time. Alternatively a trusted vendor may be a customer of the computing resource service provider that has established a relationship with the computing resource service provider such as through negotiation or other communication which would cause the computing resource service provider to trust this customer. While a virtual computer system service is used extensively throughout the present disclosure to verify the identity of a vendor other services service providers and entities may be configured to verify the identity of a vendor instead of the virtual computer system service. For instance the computing resource service provider may maintain and operate an identity management service that is configured to provide and maintain a set of credentials for each user of the one or more services provided by the computing resource service provider including vendors of virtual machine images. Accordingly this identity management service may be configured to receive a set of credentials from the vendor to determine the identity of the vendor and determine whether the vendor is to be considered a trusted vendor.

If the vendor is not a trusted vendor as determined by the virtual computer system service the virtual computer system service may refuse the vendor s request to create a vendor account and may thus prevent the vendor from uploading any virtual machine images. Alternatively a vendor may be able to upload virtual machine images without a vendor account. However these virtual machine images may not be verified by the virtual computer system service and thus the virtual computer system service may designate these virtual machine images as not being verified.

If the virtual computer system service is able to verify that the vendor is to be considered a trusted vendor the virtual computer system service may determine whether the vendor has provided within the request a digital certificate that may be used to by the virtual computer system service to decrypt a digital signature included with any virtual machine images that are uploaded to the virtual machine image data store. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may utilize a public key within the digital certificate to decrypt the digital signature within the digitally signed virtual machine image. The virtual computer system service may also apply a hash function to the virtual machine image to obtain a hash value. If the hash value matches the decrypted digital signature then the virtual machine image may be deemed to originate from a trusted vendor and thus may be authentic. If the request includes a digital certificate the virtual computer system service may add the digital certificate from the vendor to a data store where it may be kept until the vendor uploads a digitally signed virtual machine image.

If the request from the vendor does not comprise a digital certificate usable to decrypt a digital signature included with a virtual machine image the virtual computer system service may issue a digital certificate to the vendor for use with his her virtual machine images. This digital certificate may also be stored within a data store for use in decrypting a digital signature within the digitally signed virtual machine image when uploaded by a vendor. Alternatively since the digital certificate may be provided by the virtual computer system service any virtual machine image that includes this digital certificate may be deemed to be authentic. It should be noted that the process may include additional or fewer actions than those presented in . For instance in an embodiment the virtual computer system service will only allow trusted vendors to utilize digital certificates issued by the virtual computer system when uploading new virtual machine images to the machine images data store. Accordingly once the virtual computer system service has determined that the vendor is a trusted vendor the virtual computer system service may issue a digital certificate to the vendor for use with his her virtual machine images regardless of whether the vendor has provided his her own digital certificate or not.

As noted above a vendor may utilize an interface provided by a virtual computer system service to upload one or more virtual machine images to a virtual machine image data store. The virtual machine images within this data store may be included in a marketplace wherein customers of the virtual computer system service may select a virtual machine image to create a new virtual machine instance. Accordingly shows an illustrative example of a process for adding a virtual machine image to a marketplace managed by a virtual computer system service in accordance with at least one embodiment. The process may be performed by a virtual computer system service configured to verify one or more digital signatures included within uploaded virtual machine images. Further the virtual computer system service may be configured to manage a marketplace that may include both trusted and unverified virtual machine images.

As noted above a vendor may utilize an interface provided by the virtual computer system service such as the interface illustrated in to upload a virtual machine image to a virtual machine image data store. The virtual machine image data store may comprise a plurality of virtual machine images that may be used by customers of the virtual computer system service to generate a new virtual machine instance. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may receive the uploaded virtual machine image from the vendor. As will be described in greater detail below the virtual computer system service may perform one or more actions to determine whether the virtual machine image may be added to the virtual machine image data store and or a marketplace thereby granting customers access to the uploaded virtual machine image.

Once the virtual computer system service has received the uploaded virtual machine image from a vendor the virtual computer system service may determine whether the uploaded virtual machine image was uploaded along with a corresponding vendor digital certificate. As noted above when a vendor submits a request to the virtual computer system service to create a vendor account the virtual computer system service may determine whether the vendor may be considered a trusted vendor. If the vendor is determined to be a trusted vendor the virtual computer system service may either issue a digital certificate to the vendor for use with virtual machine images or receive a digital certificate from the vendor which is then added to a trust store. Accordingly the vendor may attach a digital certificate to a digitally signed virtual machine image prior to uploading the virtual machine image.

If the uploaded virtual machine image was not uploaded with a corresponding digital certificate e.g. the virtual machine image has not been digitally signed the virtual computer system service may determine whether the uploaded virtual machine image may be added to a virtual machine image data store and or a marketplace in order to grant customers access to the virtual machine image. For instance if the virtual machine image does not comprise a digital certificate then it may be difficult or impossible to verify the authenticity of the uploaded virtual machine image. Thus the virtual computer system service may be configured to refuse to add any virtual machine images that have not been digitally signed to the virtual machine image data store and or the marketplace since there may be no way to know if these images comprise malicious software. If the virtual computer system service is configured to reject a virtual machine image that has not been digitally signed then the virtual computer system service may display an error message through the interface. This error message may comprise information detailing the one or more reasons for the rejection of the uploaded virtual machine image which the vendor may utilize to either attempt to obtain a vendor account and or attach a valid digital certificate to the virtual machine image or to terminate communication with the virtual computer system service.

If the uploaded virtual machine image was uploaded with a corresponding digital certificate the virtual computer system service may determine whether the digital certificate may be trusted. For instance if during the vendor account creation process the virtual computer system service has provided a digital certificate to the vendor for use with virtual machine images the virtual computer system service may examine the uploaded virtual machine image to determine whether it has been digitally signed and includes a digital certificate. Alternatively if during the vendor account creation process the vendor provided the virtual computer system service with a digital certificate and the digital certificate is stored within a trust store managed by the virtual computer system service the virtual computer system service may determine whether the digital certificate included with the uploaded virtual machine image has been previously stored within the trust store. If the digital certificate included with the uploaded virtual machine image has not previously been stored within the trust store then the digital certificate may not be trusted. If the digital certificate cannot be trusted because it is not included within a trust store managed by the virtual computer system service the virtual computer system service may cause the interface to display an error message that may comprise information detailing the one or more reasons for failure to add the virtual machine image to the virtual machine image data store and or the marketplace.

Once the digital certificate included with the uploaded virtual machine image has been deemed by the virtual computer system service to be trusted the virtual computer system service may utilize the public cryptographic key included with the digital certificate to verify the digital signature of the virtual machine image. For instance when a digitally signed virtual machine image is uploaded to the virtual machine image data store along with a digital certificate the virtual computer system service may extract a public cryptographic key from the digital certificate in order to decrypt the digital signature and obtain a hash value. Accordingly this hash value may be compared to a digest of the virtual machine image to determine if the digital signature is valid. If the values match then the virtual machine image may be verified as having originated from a trusted vendor of virtual machine images. Alternatively the digitally signed virtual machine image and corresponding digital certificate may be stored within the virtual machine image data store wherein any entity may select the virtual machine image and utilize one or more modules of executable code to independently verify that the virtual machine image originated from a trusted vendor of virtual machine images.

Once the digital signature of the virtual machine image has been verified by the virtual computer system the virtual computer system service may add the uploaded virtual machine image to the virtual machine image data store and or the marketplace. Additionally the uploaded virtual machine image may be added to the virtual machine image data store and or the marketplace if it has not been digitally signed and or does not include the digital certificate. For instance the virtual computer system service may be configured to store any virtual machine images have not been digitally signed or cannot be authenticated e.g. include a defective digital certificate or no digital certificate at all in the virtual machine image data store and or the marketplace. However these virtual machine images may be classified as not being authenticated by the virtual computer system service. For instance the virtual computer system service may be configured to label each of these virtual machine images as being unverified by the virtual computer system service. Thus the virtual machine images stored within the virtual machine image data store and or the marketplace may be categorized based at least in part on whether a virtual machine image is verifiable as originating from a vendor of virtual machine images. In an embodiment if a vendor of virtual machine images uploads the virtual machine image to the virtual machine image data store through a trusted communications network channel then the virtual computer system service may digitally sign the virtual machine image thereby authenticating the virtual machine image itself.

As noted above customers of a virtual computer system service and vendors of virtual machine images may define one or more policies that may be used by the virtual computer system service to determine whether a customer or other user may utilize a virtual machine image to generate a new virtual machine instance. Accordingly shows an illustrative example of a process for launching a virtual machine image based at least in part on one or more applicable policies in accordance with at least one embodiment. The process may be performed by a virtual computer system service configured to enable customers and vendors to define one or more policies for defining a level of access to one or more virtual machine images. Further the virtual computer system service may be configured to evaluate these policies to determine whether a customer may utilize a virtual machine image to create a new virtual machine instance.

As noted above the virtual computer system service may be configured to provide customers of the virtual computer system service with an interface which the customers may utilize to submit one or more requests to launch a virtual machine image. For instance as illustrated in the interface may include a listing of one or more virtual machine images which the customer may utilize to select an appropriate virtual machine image for creation of a new virtual machine instance. Accordingly the virtual computer system service may receive a request to launch a selected virtual machine image.

Once the virtual computer system service has received the request from a customer or other delegated user the virtual computer system service may evaluate the customer and or virtual machine image policies to determine whether the customer or delegated user may utilize the selected virtual machine image to create a new virtual machine instance. As noted above the virtual computer system service may enable customers to define one or more policies to define a level of access to one or more virtual machine images made available by a plurality of vendors. For instance a customer may generate a policy that specifies that the customer or other delegated user of the customer account cannot utilize a virtual machine image created by a particular vendor. Alternatively the customer may generate a policy that defines a list of vendors that are to be trusted and whose virtual machine images may be used to create a virtual machine instance.

In addition to customer policies vendors of virtual machine images may attach one or more policies to each of the virtual machine images uploaded to the virtual machine image data store. For instance a vendor may create one or more policies defining one or more customers that may not be permitted to utilize the uploaded virtual machine image. Alternatively or additionally the vendor may create one or more policies defining a set of conditions wherein the virtual machine image may not be used. For instance if the customer uses a particular virtual computer system configuration the virtual machine image may not operate properly when instantiated to this virtual computer system. Thus the policy may be defined to prevent such occurrences.

Once the virtual computer system service has evaluated the customer and or virtual machine image policies the virtual computer system service may determine whether there are one or more policies that may allow the customer or delegated user to launch the virtual machine image. For instance the one or more policies may include an affirmative statement that the particular customer or delegated users may utilize the virtual machine image to create a virtual machine instance. If there are no policies that explicitly allow a customer or delegated user to launch the virtual machine image to create a virtual machine instance the virtual computer system service may determine whether there are one or more policies that may forbid the customer or delegated user to launch the virtual machine image. For instance as noted above a customer may define one or more policies prohibiting the customer or any other delegated user to use the customer account to utilize virtual machine images created by one or more specific vendors. In another instance a vendor may generate one or more policies that are included with his her virtual machine images that may prohibit a customer from utilizing these virtual machine images if the customer s virtual computer system configuration is not compatible with the virtual machine images.

If the customer and or virtual machine image policies specifically forbid a customer or delegated user from utilizing the selected virtual machine image the virtual computer system service may cause the interface to display an error message. The error message may comprise information detailing the one or more reasons why the customer or delegated user may not use the selected virtual machine image. Alternatively the error message may only include information detailing that the request has been denied without any additional reasons for the denial of the request.

If there is a customer policy and or a virtual machine image policy that explicitly allows the customer to utilize the selected virtual machine image or no policies have been defined that forbid a customer or delegated user from utilizing the selected virtual machine image the virtual computer system service may instantiate the selected virtual machine image to a physical host and enable the customer or delegated user to utilize the newly created virtual machine instance. For instance the virtual computer system service may allocate the resources necessary e.g. the processors and RAM required to operate the components of the machine image to process the virtual machine image. Subsequently the virtual machine image may be instantiated on one or more physical storage devices e.g. one or more servers or hard drives that may act as a physical host for the virtual machine instance.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. Servers as used herein may be implemented in various ways such as hardware devices or virtual computer systems. In some contexts servers may refer to a programming module being executed on a computer system. As used herein unless otherwise stated or clear from context the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed virtual or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware software and firmware for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling some or all of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server may provide access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content including but not limited to text graphics audio video and or other content usable to be provided to the user which may be served to the user by the web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML JavaScript Cascading Style Sheets CSS or another appropriate client side structured language. Content transferred to a client device may be processed by the client device to provide the content in one or more forms including but not limited to forms that are perceptible to the user audibly visually and or through other senses including touch taste and or smell. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the web server using PHP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Python Ruby Perl Java HTML XML or another appropriate server side structured language in this example. It should be understood that the web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein. Further operations described herein as being performed by a single device may unless otherwise clear from context be performed collectively by multiple devices which may form a distributed and or virtual system.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases data documents dynamic data storage schemes and or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect of the present disclosure. For example the data store illustrated may include mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. The application server may provide static dynamic or a combination of static and dynamic data in response to the received instructions. Dynamic data such as data used in web logs blogs shopping applications news services and other such applications may be generated by server side structured languages as described herein or may be provided by a content management system CMS operating on or under the control of the application server. In one example a user through a device operated by the user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser. It should be noted however that embodiments of the present disclosure are not necessarily limited to the context of web pages but may be more generally applicable to processing requests in general where the requests are not necessarily requests for content.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed and or virtual computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop laptop or tablet computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network. These devices also can include virtual devices such as virtual machines hypervisors and other virtual devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP protocols operating in various layers of the Open System Interconnection OSI model File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network a satellite network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a web server the web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers Apache servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Ruby PHP Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM as well as open source servers such as MySQL Postgres SQLite MongoDB and any other server capable of storing retrieving and accessing structured or unstructured data. Database servers may include table based servers document based servers unstructured servers relational servers non relational servers or combinations of these and or other database servers.

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU or processor at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected when unmodified and referring to physical connections is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of the term set e.g. a set of items or subset unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context is to be construed as a nonempty collection comprising one or more members. Further unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context the term subset of a corresponding set does not necessarily denote a proper subset of the corresponding set but the subset and the corresponding set may be equal.

Conjunctive language such as phrases of the form at least one of A B and C or at least one of A B and C unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise clearly contradicted by context is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either A or B or C or any nonempty subset of the set of A and B and C. For instance in the illustrative example of a set having three members the conjunctive phrases at least one of A B and C and at least one of A B and C refer to any of the following sets A B C A B A C B C A B C. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C each to be present.

Operations of processes described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. Processes described herein or variations and or combinations thereof may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for embodiments of the present disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the scope of the present disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

