---

title: Method and system for electronic packaging for a headset
abstract: A product packaging comprises circuitry and a speaker that are operable to detect when the product packaging is opened and/or removed from the packaging, and in response to detecting the removal and/or opening, play one or more pre-loaded audio messages via the speaker. The pre-loaded audio message includes a welcome message and/or setup instructions, which may be interactive. The circuitry and/or the speaker generates an interactive audio dialog that is utilized to customize setup of the product (e.g., a gaming headset), and may receive corresponding audio responses from a user of the gaming headset, in response to one or more audio prompts for the interactive audio dialog. The circuitry and/or the speaker may select settings for the gaming headset based on the received corresponding audio responses. The circuitry and/or the speaker may configure the gaming headset based on the selected settings and generate an audio summary of the selected settings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479858&OS=09479858&RS=09479858
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 09479858
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140730
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. provisional patent application 61 895 664 titled Method and System for Electronic Packaging for a Headset which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Game Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present application relate to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for electronic packaging for a headset.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing for gaming will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for electronic packaging for a headset substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may be found in a method and system for electronic packaging for a headset or other product. In accordance with various embodiments of the disclosure a product packaging comprises circuitry and a speaker that are operable to detect when the packaging is opened and or when the product is removed from the packaging. In response to detecting the removal and or opening one or more pre loaded audio messages may be played via the speaker. The pre loaded audio message may include a welcome message and or setup instructions. The setup instructions may be interactive. For example as each part is pulled out of the packaging the circuitry and or the speaker may provide instructions on what to do with each part e.g. with respect to assembly or set up and what is the next part that is to be pulled out of the packaging.

The circuitry and or the speaker may generate an interactive audio dialog that is utilized to customize setup of the gaming headset and may receive one or more corresponding audio responses from a user of the gaming headset in response to one or more audio prompts for the interactive audio dialog. The circuitry and or the speaker may select one or more settings for the gaming headset based on the received one or more corresponding audio responses. The circuitry and or the speaker may configure the gaming headset based on the selected one or more settings generate an audio summary of the selected one or more settings and or present an audio and or visual notification when the configuring of the gaming headset is complete.

The game console may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to present a game to and also enable game play interaction between one or more local players and or one or more remote players. The game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a radio network interface video interface audio interface controller hub main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various buses links and .

The controller hub comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment II III or variants thereof SATA II SATA III embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The controller hub may also be referred to as an input output I O controller hub. Exemplary controller hubs may comprise Southbridge Haswell Fusion and Sandybridge. The controller hub may be operable to receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA II SATA III and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA II III and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The controller hub exchanges data with the radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards near field communication NFC and or the like.

The network interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant audio data via the link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the audio subsystem via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the device and or part of one or more software applications running on the device .

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory which stores parameter settings to affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may provide high speed memory functions for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The cache memory may typically comprise DRAM or variants thereof. The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to the user interface device the user interface device the network the monitor and the audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth NFC and or the like . The user interface device may be operable to communicate with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuit. The game console sends audio to the audio subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . Additional details of an example audio subsystem are described below.

In operation the headset may be operable to determine or detect when it is being removed from its packaging and in response may be operable to play a pre loaded message such as a greeting or welcome message. The headset may also be operable to provide instructions that may be utilized to unpack the headset from the packaging and setup customize and or configure the headset .

The monitor and the user interface device are as described above. The headset is as described below with reference to . The audio basestation is as described below with reference to for example .

The multi purpose device may comprise for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like and that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. An example multi purpose device is described below with reference to . Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface GUI which may enable a user to access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings and so on. The graphical user interface may enable a user to interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance the user s gaming experience.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links and or hops among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures or acoustic fingerprint of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one of more devices of the GPN .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to convert acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The speakers and may comprise circuitry that may be operable to convert electrical signals to sound waves.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuit of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuit of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct NFC or the like with another computing device and or the like. Some of the user controls may adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular game that is being played. Some of the user controls may also adaptively and or dynamically change during gameplay based on a particular player that is engage in the game play. The connector may be for example a USB thunderbolt Firewire or other type of port or interface. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards NFC the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The CPU may also be operable to detect when the headset is being removed from its packaging and in response the CPU may be operable to control operation of the audio processing circuit to play a welcome message or greeting. The CPU may also be operable to control the operation of the audio processing circuit to play one or more preloaded messages. Exemplary preloaded messages may comprise a welcome message or greeting unpacking instructions setup instructions configuration instructions maintenance or care instructions and or customization instructions.

In accordance with various embodiments of the disclosure the CPU may be operable to establish an interactive setup session with the person that is unpacking and setting up the headset . In this regard the CPU may configure the audio processing circuit to present a first question to the person setting up the headset . The person setting up the headset may respond with a first response which may for example be received via the microphone and processed by the audio processing circuit . Based on the results from the processing by the audio processing circuit the CPU may select a first setting and configure a first parameter or option for the headset with the selected first setting. In this regard a plurality of parameters or options for the headset may be configured. Additionally or alternatively the first response may be detected by another sensor of the headset and or input via controls of the headset .

For the interactive session the CPU may also be operable to guide the person that is removing the headset from its packaging through the steps that should be utilized for unpacking or removing the headset from its packaging. In this regard the audio processing circuit and the CPU may be operable to generate instructions comprising a plurality of sequential steps which may be played through the speakers . The plurality of sequential steps may inform the person that is removing the headset of the order in which the parts in the packaging should be removed and what should be done with each part e.g. with respect to assembly or set up . As each part is pulled out of the packaging the CPU audio processing circuit and or the speakers may be operable to provide instructions on what to do with each part and what is the next part that is to be pulled out of the packaging. The sequence of the steps may be dependent on the responses that are received from the person that is removing the headset from its packaging. In this regard each of the sequential steps may occur as a result of a response that may be received from the person that is removing the headset from its packaging.

The storage device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory which may be operable to store data comprising operating data configuration data settings and so on which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuit . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuit e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Game headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The storage device may also be operable to store audio information corresponding to the one or more preloaded messages comprising the welcome message or greeting and to provide unpacking instructions setup instructions configuration instructions maintenance or care instructions and or customization instructions. The CPU may also be operable to retrieve the audio information corresponding to the preloaded messages from the storage device and control the operation of the audio processing circuit to play the preloaded messages.

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data and so on. In this regard the memory may comprise information and or data that may be utilized to control operation of the audio processing circuit to provide playback of one or more preloaded messages such as the welcome message or greeting the unpacking instructions the setup instructions the configuration instructions the maintenance or care instructions and or the customization instructions.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing performed by the audio processing circuit may also be determined based on default settings player preference and or by adaptive and or dynamic changes to the game play environment. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

The audio processing circuit may be operable to play one or more preloaded messages such as the welcome message or greeting the unpacking instructions the setup instructions the configuration instructions the maintenance or care instructions and or the customization instructions. The CPU may be operable to configure the audio processing circuit to play one or more of the preloaded messages. The audio processing circuit may also be operable to process one or more responses that may be received from the person setting up the headset as part of the interactive instructions that are controlled by the CPU . In this regard the audio processing circuit may also be operable to process the one or more responses that may be received from a person setting up the headset. Based on the results of the processed one or more responses the CPU may be operable to control playback of the predefined messages and or select one or more settings that may be utilized to setup and configure the headset . The CPU may also be operable to customize the headset for the person setting up the headset based on the results of the processing of the one or more responses by the audio processing circuit .

In operation the CPU may be operable to detect when the headset is being removed from its packaging e.g. based on a button press that is necessary during removal based on a disconnection of a magnetic connection between the headset and the packaging based on a disconnection of a conductive connection between the headset and the packaging and or the like . In instances when the CPU detects that the headset is being removed the audio processing circuit may be operable to play one or more pre loaded audio message via the speakers . The pre loaded audio message may comprise the welcome message or greeting the unpacking instructions the setup instructions the configuration instructions the maintenance or care instructions and or the customization instructions. The pre loaded messages may be utilized to provide an interactive audio dialog between the headset and the person that is removing the headset from its packaging and setting up the headset . In this regard the headset the audio processing circuit and the CPU may be operable to generate the interactive audio dialog that may be utilized to customize setup of the headset for one or more users of the headset . The CPU may control the audio processing circuit to generate one or more audio prompts via the speakers . In response to one or more audio prompts or instructions for the interactive audio dialog which are generated from the speakers the audio processing circuit may be operable to receive one or more corresponding responses such as audio responses via the microphone or interactions with the controls from the person that may be removing the headset from its packaging and setting up the headset . The audio processing circuit may be operable to analyze the received one or more corresponding responses and based on the analysis the CPU may be operable to select one or more settings for configuring one or more parameters or options for the headset .

The CPU may be operable to control the audio processing circuit to generate an audio summary and or an acknowledgement of the selected one or more settings that were utilized for configuring one or more parameters or options for the headset . The CPU and the audio processing circuit may be operable to present an audio and or visual notification when the configuring of the headset is complete. For example the CPU and the audio processing circuit may play a special audio tone or clip via the speakers which indicates completion of the configuring. In another example the CPU may be operable to blink a light such as a LED on the headset which indicates completion of the configuring.

The audio connectors and may comprise digital audio in and digital audio out e.g. S PDIF connectors respectively. The audio connectors and may comprise a left line in and a right line in connector respectively. The controls may comprise for example a power button a button for enabling disabling virtual surround sound a button for adjusting the perceived angles of the speakers when the virtual surround sound is enabled and a dial for controlling a volume gain of the audio received via the line in connectors and . The status indicators may indicate for example whether the audio basestation is powered on whether audio data is being received by the basestation via connectors and or what type of audio data e.g. Dolby Digital is being received by the basestation .

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards NFC and or the like and or proprietary e.g. proprietary protocol for receiving audio protocols for receiving audio from a console such as the console wireless protocols.

The radio comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for transmitting audio to the headphones .

The CPU comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the audio basestation . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the audio basestation and or part of one or more software applications running on the audio basestation . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuit . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the basestation . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuit . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuit e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Game headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the basestation in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game and or chat audio signals that are subsequently output to a device e.g. headset in communication with the basestation . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on a microphone audio signal that is subsequently output to a device e.g. console in communication with the basestation .

The application processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the multi purpose device as well as graphics processing functions of the multi purpose device . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The memory subsystem comprises volatile memory for storing runtime data nonvolatile memory for mass storage and long term storage and or a memory controller which controls reads writes to memory.

The LAN subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of wired optical and or wireless signals e.g. in accordance with Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 and variants thereof 802.11 e.g. a b g n ac q Wi FI Direct Bluetooth Ethernet and or other standards .

The sensors comprise for example a camera a gyroscope an accelerometer a biometric sensor and or the like.

The power management subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage distribution of power among the various components of the multi purpose device .

The cellular GPS networking subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The bus adaptor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable for interfacing one or more internal data busses of the multi purpose device with an external bus e.g. a Universal Serial Bus for transferring data to from the multi purpose device via a wired connection.

The user interface subsystem comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to control and relay signals to from a touchscreen hard buttons and or other input devices of the multi purpose device .

The audio processor comprises suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process e.g. digital to analog conversion analog to digital conversion compression decompression encryption decryption resampling etc. audio signals. The audio processor may be operable to receive and or output signals via a connector such as a 3.5 mm stereo and microphone connector.

The packaging detection circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to detect when the packaging is being opened. In this regard the packaging detection circuit may comprise for example an element such as a conductor switch shown in or the like that may activated when the packaging is being opened and removed from the headset . The switch may be a low cost switch such as a magnetic switch in which a first portion of the magnetic switch is affixed to a first portion of the packaging and a second portion of the magnetic switch shown in is affixed to a second portion of the packaging . When the packaging is being opened the first portion of the conductor or switch on the first portion of the packaging is separated from the second portion of the conductor or switch on the second portion of the packaging . The separation may cause activation of the switch. In the case of a conductor the separation may cause the conductor to break and this breakage may trigger the communication of a signal from the package detection circuit to the headset .

In some embodiments of the disclosure the packaging detection circuit may comprise a battery a low cost audio player and a piezo speaker which are shown in . When the switch is activated this may cause the battery to power the low cost audio player and the low cost audio player may be operable to play one or more pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions via the peizo speakers. In some embodiments of the disclosure when the packaging is being opened and removed from the headset and the switch is activated the packaging detection circuit may be operable to send a signal to the headset . The signal that is sent to the headset may cause the headset to play one or more pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions. The signal may comprise for example an NFC signal. In the case of the conductor when the packaging is being opened the first portion of the conductor on the first portion of the packaging is separated from the second portion of the conductor on the second portion of the packaging this may cause the package detection circuit to trigger the low cost audio player to play one or more pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions via the peizo speakers.

The headset may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive the plurality of audio channels of game audio and or chat audio. The headset may be substantially similar to the headset for example which is shown in and described with respect to . The headset may be operable to receive a signal from the packaging detection circuit in instances when the packaging detection circuit detects that the packaging is being opened and removed from the headset and the switch is activated. The signal that is sent to the headset may cause the headset to play one or more pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions. The signal may comprise for example an NFC signal.

In some embodiments of the disclosure the headset may be operable to detect when the packaging is being opened and removed from the headset . In instances when the headset detects that the packaging is being opened and removed from the headset the headset may be operable to play one or more pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions via the speakers . The headset may detect when the packaging is being opened and removed from the headset based on information that may be received from the integrated detection circuit

The speakers may be substantially similar to the speakers and for example which are shown in and described with respect to . The speakers may be operable to play pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions.

The audio processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to play pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions. The audio processor may be substantially similar to the audio processing circuit for example which is shown in and described with respect to . The CPU may be operable to configure the audio processor to play one or more of the preloaded messages. As part of the interactive instructions that may be controlled by the CPU the audio processor may be operable to process one or more responses that may be received from the person setting up the headset . The responses that may be received from the person setting up the headset may be captured by the microphone . In this regard the audio processor may also be operable to process the one or more responses that may be received from a person setting up the headset via the microphone . The CPU may be operable to control playback of the predefined messages based on the processed one or more responses. The CPU may be operable to select one or more settings that may be utilized to setup and configure one or more parameters and or options for the headset . In addition to the welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions the audio processor may also be operable to play one or more unpacking instructions maintenance or care instructions and or the customization instructions. The CPU may also be operable to customize the headset for the person setting up the headset based on the results of the processing of the one or more responses by the audio processor and the customization instructions.

The internal storage device may comprise one or more suitable devices that may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store audio information for a game and or for the headset . The audio information may comprise preloaded messages comprising for example the welcome message or greeting the unpacking instructions the setup instructions the configuration instructions the maintenance or care instructions and or the customization instructions.

The internal storage device may be substantially similar to the storage device for example which is shown in and described with respect to . The audio information may be stored in for example the sounds database

The CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to execute instructions for controlling managing and or coordinating the overall operation of the headset . In this regard the CPU may be operable to control manage and coordinate operation of the components in the headset which comprises the audio processor the internal storage device and the sounds database . The CPU may also be operable to coordinate and manage operations between the headset and the packaging detection circuit . The CPU may be substantially similar to the CPU for example which is shown in and described with respect to for example .

The CPU may be operable to detect when the headset is being removed from its packaging and in response the CPU may be operable to control operation of the audio processor to play one or more pre loaded messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions. The CPU may be operable to establish an interactive setup session with the person that is unpacking and setting up the headset . In this regard the CPU may configure the audio processor to present various questions to the person setting up the headset . The person setting up the headset may respond with corresponding responses which may be captured by the microphone . The captured responses may be processed by the audio processor . Based on the results from the processing by the audio processor the CPU may select various settings and configure one or more parameters and or options for the headset with the selected settings.

The CPU may also be operable to guide the person that is removing the headset from its packaging through the steps that should be utilized for unpacking or removing the headset from its packaging . In this regard the audio processor and the CPU may be operable to generate instructions comprising a plurality of sequential steps which may be played through the speakers . The plurality of sequential steps may inform the person that is removing the headset from the packaging of the order in which the parts in the packaging should be removed and what should be done with each part e.g. with respect to assembly or set up . The CPU audio processor and or the speakers may be operable to provide instructions on what to do with each part as each part is being pulled out of the packaging . The CPU may also play pre loaded instructions that notify the person that is removing the headset from the packaging about what is the next part that is to be pulled out of the packaging . The sequence of the steps may be dependent on the responses that may be received from the person that is removing the headset from its packaging. In this regard each of the sequential steps may occur as a result of a response that is received from the person that is removing the headset from its packaging .

The integrated detection circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that is operable to detect when the packaging is being opened and or removed from the headset . For example the integrated detection circuit may comprise an NFC device which is operable to detect when the packaging is being opened and or removed from the headset . In instances when the integrated detection circuit detects that the packaging is being opened and or removed from the headset the integrated detection circuit may cause the NFC device to send a signal to the CPU . The CPU may be operable to control the audio processor to play one or more pre loaded messages when the CPU receives the signal from the integrated detection circuit . In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the integrated detection circuit may comprise a metallic strip that forms a closed circuit when the packaging is unopened. The metallic strip may extend around an area of the packaging that is to be opened. When the packaging is opened the metallic strip is broken and this causes the circuit to be opened. The opening of the circuit may trigger for example the NFC device to send the signal to the headset .

The microphone may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to capture responses that may be received from the person that is removing the headset from the packaging . The responses captured by the microphone may be communicated to the audio processor

In operation the CPU may be operable to detect when the headset is being removed from its packaging and control operation of the audio processor to play one or more pre loaded audio message via the speakers . Exemplary pre loaded audio message may comprise the welcome message or greeting the unpacking instructions the setup instructions the configuration instructions the maintenance or care instructions and or the customization instructions. In accordance with an example embodiment of the disclosure the pre loaded messages may be utilized to provide an interactive audio dialog between the headset and the person that is removing the headset from its packaging . The CPU the audio processor the speakers and the microphone may be operable to generate the interactive audio dialog. Responses from the person setting up the headset may be utilized by the audio processor to customize setup of the headset for one or more users.

For the interactive dialog the CPU may be operable to control the audio processor to generate one or more audio prompts via the speakers . In response to one or more audio prompts or instructions for the interactive audio dialog the audio processor may be operable to receive one or more corresponding audio responses from the person that may be removing the headset from the packaging . The corresponding audio responses may be captured by the microphone and processed by the audio processor . The CPU may be operable to select one or more settings for configuring the headset based on results of the processing by the audio processor . The CPU may be operable to configure one or more parameters or options for the headset utilizing the selected settings.

The packaging may be substantially similar to the packaging for example which is shown in and described with respect to .

The headset may be substantially similar to the electronic packaging for example which is shown in and described with respect to .

The package detection circuit may be substantially similar to the packaging detection circuit for example which is shown in and described with respect to .

The conductor may comprise a conductive strip that may be affixed to a first portion of the packaging such as the side of the packaging and to a second portion of the packaging such as the flap . As shown the portions of the conductor on the flap are illustrated as and the portions of the conductor on the side of the packaging are illustrated as . When the flap is closed the conductor is unbroken meaning the conductor portions and are coupled together and the conductor portions and are coupled together thereby creating a closed circuit. The conductor is coupled to the package detection circuit . When the flap is opened the conductor is broken meaning the conductor portions and are decoupled and the conductor portions and are decoupled thereby creating an open circuit. In another implementation a circuit may be broken while the flap is closed and unbroken when the flap is open. For example a portion of the flap may sit between two portions of the circuit when it is closed and the two portions may make contact with each other upon the flap being opened and no longer being between the two portions.

The NFC device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive a signal from the package detection circuit when the conductor portions and are decoupled. In response to receiving the signal from the package detection circuit the NFC device may communicate a message to the headset to start playing a pre loaded message or greeting.

In operation when the person opening the packaging moves the flap from its closed position to the open position the conductor portions and are decoupled and the conductor portions and are decoupled thereby creating an open circuit. This decoupling of the conductor may break a circuit and cause the package detection circuit to send a signal to the NFC device . In response to receiving the signal the NFC device may be operable to communicate a message to the headset to start playing a pre loaded message or greeting. The radio in the headset may be operable to receive the message from the NFC device .

In some embodiments of the disclosure the decoupling of the conductor may cause the package detection circuit to start playing the pre loaded message or greeting as illustrated in .

The packaging may be substantially similar to the packaging for example which is shown in and described with respect to .

The headset may be substantially similar to the electronic packaging for example which is shown in and described with respect to .

The package detection circuit may be substantially similar to the packaging detection circuit for example which is shown in and described with respect to .

The switch may comprise a first switch portion that may be affixed to a first portion of the packaging such as the side of the packaging and a second switch portion of the packaging such as the flap . As shown the portion of the switch on the flap is illustrated as and the portion of the switch on the side of the packaging is illustrated as A. When the flap is closed the switch is closed since the first switch portion is in close proximity to the second switch portion . When the flap is opened the switch is opened since the first switch portion is not in close proximity to the second switch portion . The switch may comprise for example a magnetic switch.

The NFC device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to receive a signal from the package detection circuit when the switch is opened. In response to receiving the signal from the package detection circuit the NFC device may communicate a message to the headset to start playing a pre loaded message or greeting.

In operation when the person opening the packaging moves the flap from its closed position to the open position the switch is opened. The opening of the switch may cause the package detection circuit to send a signal to the NFC device . In response to receiving the signal the NFC device may communicate a message to the headset to start playing a pre loaded message or greeting and or instructions. The radio in the headset may be operable to receive the message from the NFC device .

In some example embodiments of the disclosure the decoupling of the switch may cause the package detection circuit to start playing the pre loaded message or greeting as illustrated in .

The piezo speaker may be operable to play a pre loaded audio message such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions.

The audio player may be operable to play a pre loaded audio message such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions.

The processing circuit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process signals that may be received from a conductor or switch . The processing circuit may be operable to control operation of the package detection circuit .

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that store pre loaded audio messages and or instructions such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions.

In operation the packaging detection circuit may be operable to receive signal when the conductor or switch is activated. In response to receiving the signal processing circuit may trigger the audio player to retrieve one or more pre loaded audio messages from the memory . In this regard the audio player may play a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions via the peizo speaker

In some embodiments of the disclosure when the packaging detection circuit receives the signal from the conductor or switch the processing circuit may be operable to send a message to the headset . In this regard the processing circuit may be operable to activate the NFC device to send the message to the headset . The signal that is sent to the headset may cause the headset to play one or more pre loaded audio messages such as a welcome message or greeting and or setup and configuration instructions via the speakers .

In step the headset is operable to detect that the packaging is being opened and start an interactive dialog to customize the headset . In step the headset is operable to generate a dialog that asks What is your name . In step the person removing the headset from a packaging responds Bob. In step the headset is operable to announce Welcome Bob. In step the headset is operable to generate a dialog asking Would you like to turn ON or OFF auto volume control . In step the person removing the headset from a packaging responds ON. In step the headset is operable to generate dialog asking Would you like to turn ON or OFF HD Audio . In step the person removing the headset from a packaging responds ON. In step the headset is operable to generate dialog asking Would you like to turn ON or OFF power save mode . In step the person removing the headset from a packaging responds OFF. In step the headset is operable to announce Welcome Bob auto volume is ON HD audio is ON and power save mode is OFF. The customization is now complete. The questions of are merely examples only and any series of questions is possible.

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure a product packaging comprises a speaker and circuitry such as a headset a packaging detection circuit and or an integrated detection circuit . The packaging detection circuit and or the integrated detection circuit may be operable to detect when the product is removed from the packaging and or when the packaging is opened. In response to detecting the removal and or opening the headset may be operable to play one or more pre loaded audio messages via the speaker . The pre loaded audio message may comprise a welcome message and or setup instructions which may be interactive. The headset and or the speaker may be operable to generate an interactive audio dialog that is utilized to customize setup of the headset . The headset may be operable to receive one or more corresponding audio responses from a user or person setting up the headset in response to one or more audio prompts for the interactive audio dialog. The headset may be operable to select one or more settings for the headset based on the received one or more corresponding audio responses. The headset may be operable to configure the headset based on the selected one or more settings. The headset may be operable to generate an audio summary of the selected one or more settings. The headset may be operable to present an audio and or visual notification when the configuring of the headset is complete. As each part is pulled out of the packaging the speaker may be operable to play instructions on what to do with each part and e.g. with respect to assembly or set up what is the next part that is to be pulled out of the packaging .

While the discussion herein regarding electronic packaging has focused primarily on headsets e.g. gaming headsets the present disclosure is not so limited. Accordingly the described electronic packaging can be applied to virtually any product electronic or otherwise.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Throughout this disclosure the use of the terms dynamically and or adaptively with respect to an operation means that for example parameters for configurations for and or execution of the operation may be configured or reconfigured during run time e.g. in or near real time based on newly received or updated information or data. For example an operation within a transmitter and or a receiver may be configured or reconfigured based on for example current recently received and or updated signals information and or data.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

