---

title: Personalized delivery time optimization
abstract: Techniques for optimizing a delivery time for the delivery of messages are described. According to various embodiments, a system determines, for each of a plurality of time intervals, a likelihood of a particular member of an online social network service performing a particular member user action on a particular message content item during the corresponding time interval. The plurality of time intervals are then ranked, based on the determined likelihoods corresponding to the plurality of time intervals. Thereafter, a particular time interval is identified from among the plurality of time intervals that is associated with a highest ranking. The particular time interval is then classified as an optimum personalized message delivery time for the particular member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473446&OS=09473446&RS=09473446
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09473446
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
The present application relates generally to data processing systems and in one specific example to techniques for optimizing a delivery time for the delivery of messages.

Social network services such as LinkedIn reach out to many members via email. These emails may contain information about news articles influencer posts connection updates group discussions marketing content etc.

Example methods and systems for optimizing a delivery time for the delivery of messages are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

According to various exemplary embodiments described herein an email response prediction system is configured to predict the likelihood of a user performing a user action on a particular email content item. For example the email response prediction system may predict the likelihood that a particular member of an online social network service e.g. LinkedIn will click on a particular item in a digest email. As another example the e mail response prediction system may predict the likelihood that a particular member of the online social network service will access open or view any mail. Accordingly the email response prediction system described herein is configured to determine or predict what emails or what content within emails a member of an online social network service is likely to interact with. This information may be used by the email response prediction system to for example downshift filter out certain emails to members if the email response prediction system determines that there s a low likelihood of a click on that email which may reduce costs and member annoyance while dramatically improving click through rate CTR .

The email response prediction system may include various types of component modules including a source module that encodes raw data from external data sources into feature vectors and assembles the feature vectors to generate an assembled feature vector. In some embodiments the assembled feature vector output by the source module may include various features describing a member of a social networking website a particular email content item a member s email activities a member s other activities on the social networking website activities of similar members activities of a member s connections and so on. The assembled feature vector may then be passed to a prediction module for predicting whether the particular member will click on the particular email content item.

The prediction module may use any one of various known prediction modeling techniques to perform the prediction modeling. For example the prediction module may apply a statistics based machine learning model such as a logistic regression model to the features in the assembled feature vector. For example the email response prediction system may use an L2 regularized logistic regression i.e. 

Thus to improve the user experience for a given member and email type or content an email response prediction system predicts the response probability where the response can be a click registration or any other activity . With such a probability a number of actions can be taken including deciding not to send the email recommending an un subscription personalizing the email by re ordering the contents portfolio optimization processes where the e mail response prediction system adjusts various aspects of e mail distribution to conform to members interests holistically and so on.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bilateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behaviour e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behaviour may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behaviour indicating that the member is a likely job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as a job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates. Accordingly a company that has available job openings can publish a message that is specifically directed to certain members of the social network service who are job seekers and thus more likely to be receptive to recruiting efforts. With some embodiments the social network system includes what is generally referred to herein an email response prediction system . The email response prediction system is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Although not shown with some embodiments the social network system provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to a content hosting platform of the social network service that facilitates presentation of activity or content streams maintained and presented by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

Turning now to an email response prediction system includes a source module a prediction module an email management module and a database . The modules of the email response prediction system may be implemented on or executed by a single device such as a response prediction device or on separate devices interconnected via a network. The aforementioned response prediction device may be for example a client machine or application server.

Briefly the source module is configured to access various data including email content data describing a particular email content item and member email interaction data describing a particular member s interactions with various email content. The source module also encodes the data accessed from the external data sources into one or more feature vectors and assembles the one or more feature vectors to thereby generate an assembled feature vector see . Thereafter the prediction module performs a prediction modeling process based on the assembled feature vector and a prediction model to predict a likelihood of a particular member performing a particular user action on a particular email content item e.g. the email content item described by the raw email content data . The prediction module may use any one of various known prediction modeling techniques to perform the prediction modeling. For example the prediction module may apply a statistics based machine learning model such as a logistic regression model to the assembled feature vector.

In some embodiments the term email content item refers to an email of a particular type such as a network connection update e mail a news update e mail a jobs update e mail an influencer post update e mail a company update e mail a group update e mail and a university update e mail. In some embodiments the email type is a digest e mail associated with an online social network service see the digest e mail including at least one of network connection update information news update information jobs update information influencer post update information company update information group update information university update information. In some embodiments the term email content item refers to content included within an email e.g. a digest email such as network update information Influencer update information jobs update information groups update information universities update information companies update information etc. In some embodiments the email content item may be an advertisement offer promotion coupon special deal an article a news item a blog post and so on included in an email or another notification e.g. text message instant message chat message etc. .

In some embodiments the user action may be a click response a non click response a hover response e.g. the user causes a mouse cursor to hover over the email content item for a predetermined period of time an unsubscribe response a conversion response e.g. the user selects an advertisement or offer in the email and completes a transaction based on the advertisement a like response e.g. the member likes the item a comment response e.g. the member comments on the item a share response e.g. the member shares the item a follow response e.g. the member follows the items a rating response e.g. the member rates the email content item based on a range of rating options displayed in conjunction with the email content item and so on.

In some embodiments the email content data accessed by the source module specifies an email type email format email title email keywords and email image email content item rendering information e.g. various rendering characteristics of an email content item with respect to the appearance of the email content item such as email format email size shape email image characteristics email color characteristics email border frame characteristics email title font size email title font type email keyword font size email keyword font type etc. and so on. The external data source from which such raw email content data may be accessed may be a database data repository storage facility Web server etc. associated with the social network service such as LinkedIn or Facebook . For example illustrates an example of e mail content data that may be accessed by the source module and encoded into a feature vector. In particular the email content data identifies email type email format email title email keywords and email image etc. for a given email. Thus the source module may encode the aforementioned email content data into one or more feature vectors which may be then be included in the final assembled feature vector that is passed to the prediction module e.g. see .

According to various exemplary embodiment the supervised learning model performed by the prediction module may take into account features related to the member s email activities how many emails were sent out for each type and how many clicks were received or if the member has unsubscribed from any types of emails etc. . For example the source module may access from a data source e.g. data sources in member e mail interaction data describing a history of the member s interaction with various e mail content items for various types of emails network connection update e mail a news update e mail etc. . In some embodiments the member email interaction data may indicate a quantity of various email types transmitted to the particular member e.g. over a given time interval a quantity of clicks submitted by the particular member in conjunction with the various email types e.g. over a given time interval a quantity of email unsubscribe requests submitted by the particular member in conjunction with the various email types e.g. over a given time interval . For example illustrates an example of member e mail interaction data that may be accessed by the source module and encoded into a feature vector . In particular the member e mail interaction data identifies how many of a first type of e mail and the user has received e.g. over a given time period how many of the first type of e mail to the user has clicked on e.g. over a given time interval whether or not the user has unsubscribed from the first type of e mail e.g. during a given time interval and so on for other types of e mails. Thus the source module may encode the aforementioned member e mail interaction data into one or more feature vectors which may be then included in the final assembled feature vector that is passed to the prediction module e.g. see .

According to various exemplary embodiments the supervised learning model performed by the prediction module may take into account features related to the member s other activities on the site page views likes the volume and type of the content consumed the searches conducted on the site etc. . For example the source module may access from a data source e.g. data sources in member site interaction data describing the particular member s interaction with various features or content of an online social network service. In some embodiments the member site interaction data may indicate a quantity of various user actions e.g. views impressions likes comments shares follows posts etc. performed by the particular member in association with the various features products or content associated with an online social network service e.g. a content feed a people you may know user interface a search user interface a jobs page a member profile page a company s page a groups page an Influencers page a university page etc. on LinkedIn . For example illustrates an example of member site interaction data that may be accessed by the source module and encoded into a feature vector . In particular the member e mail interaction data identifies how many times the user has performed a particular user action e.g. views impressions likes comments shares follows posts etc. in conjunction with the particular product feature e.g. during a given time interval . Thus the source module may encode the aforementioned member site interaction data into one or more feature vectors which may be then included in the final assembled feature vector that is passed to the prediction module e.g. see .

The member email interaction data and member site interaction data may be stored in a server or similar storage facility e.g. database data repository etc. and may correspond to member interaction history or behaviour history associated with an account of the member on a social network service such as LinkedIn or Facebook . For example the member email interaction data and member site interaction data may correspond to the profile data social graph data and or member activity and behaviour data stored in the databases and of social network system illustrated in . Accordingly the external data source from which such raw member data may be accessed may be a database data repository storage facility Web server etc. associated with a social network service such as LinkedIn or Facebook .

According to various exemplary embodiments the member email interaction data and or member site interaction data may include context data or context features describing a potential or actual context in which a particular member may interact with a particular email content item or site product. Examples of raw context data include time date hour of day day of week hour of week Internet Protocol IP address current user geo location information whether the email is accessed via a mobile device e.g. smartphone or tablet or a non mobile device e.g. desktop the channel through which the email content item is displayed e.g. email application web accessible email SMS or MMS text message instant chat message In mail service on LinkedIn Messenger service on Facebook etc. browser data describing a browser utilized to render email content e.g. browser model browser brand browser capabilities browser version etc. and so on.

According to various exemplary embodiments the supervised learning model performed by the prediction module may take into account member profile data related to the member e.g. member profile attributes . For example the source module may access from a data source e.g. data sources in member profile data describing a particular member including gender age current location previous locations industry education alma mater current job current employer previous jobs previous employers experience skills number of connections endorsements seniority level company size identity of connections networks groups interests preferences hobbies purchase history browsing history ethnicity sexual orientation and so on. For example illustrates an example of member profile data that may be accessed by the source module and encoded into a feature vector which may be then included in the final assembled feature vector that is passed to the prediction module e.g. see . The raw member profile data may be stored in a server or similar storage facility e.g. database data repository etc. and may correspond to member profile data or member attributes associated with an account of the member on a social network service such as LinkedIn or Facebook . For example the raw member profile data may correspond to the profile data social graph data and or member activity and behaviour data stored in the databases and of social network system illustrated in . Accordingly the external data source from which such raw member data may be accessed may be a database data repository storage facility Web server etc. associated with a social network service such as LinkedIn or Facebook .

According to various exemplary embodiments the supervised learning model performed by the prediction module may take into account various features related to the member connections of the particular member on the online social network service. For example the source module may extract various types of data described above e.g. member profile data member e mail interaction data member site interaction data etc. that are associated with the member s connections. In some embodiments the source module may access such information associated with one or more member connections having a certain degree of connectedness with the particular member e.g. first degree only or first and second degree connections only etc. . In some embodiments the source module may access information associated with one or more member connections that have interacted with the particular member to a certain extent degree e.g. exchanged a threshold number of messages posts recommendations endorsements etc. with the particular member and so on. Thus the source module may encode the aforementioned data into one or more feature vectors which may be then included in the final assembled feature vector that is passed to the prediction module e.g. see . In a case where features for a single member connection are utilized the source module may generate a feature vector for the data e.g. the member site interaction data for a single member connection for insertion into the assembled feature vector. In a case where features from multiple member connections are utilized the source module may generate a separate feature vector for the data e.g. the member site interaction data of each member connection for insertion into the assembled feature vector or the source module may generate a single feature vector for the data e.g. the member site interaction data of all the member connections e.g. based on average median mean etc. values for insertion into the assembled feature vector. In some embodiments the activity of the member connections may be weighted by the strength of the connection. For example if the source module determines that a given member connected to the particular member has a strong relationship with the particular member e.g. based on the exchange of a threshold number of messages posts recommendations endorsements etc. with the particular member then the source module may weigh the data associated with this member connection more than the data associated with another member connection.

According to various exemplary embodiments the supervised learning model performed by the prediction module may take into account various features related to members of the online social network service that are similar to the particular member. For example the source module may extract various types of data described above e.g. member profile data member e mail interaction data member site interaction data etc. that are associated with similar members. The source module may determine similar members based on similarities in the member profile data of various members e.g. members that have the same similar titles seniority levels etc. or work in the same industry function area etc. as well as similarities based on other member activities e.g. member site interaction data member e mail interaction data etc. or based on similarities in the connections of the members and so on. Thus the source module may encode the features of similar members into one or more feature vectors which may be then included in the final assembled feature vector that is passed to the prediction module e.g. see . In a case where features for a single similar member are utilized the source module may generate a feature vector for the data e.g. the member site interaction data for a single similar member for insertion into the assembled feature vector. In a case where features from multiple similar members are utilized the source module may generate a separate feature vector for the data e.g. the member site interaction data of each similar member for insertion into the assembled feature vector or the source module may generate a single feature vector for the data e.g. the member site interaction data of all the similar members e.g. based on average median mean etc. values for insertion into the assembled feature vector. In some embodiments the activity of the member connections may be weighted by how similar the member is to the particular member. For example if the source module determines that a similar member is very similar to a particular member e.g. based on a close match between the member profile attributes of the similar member and the particular member then the source module may weight the data associated with this similar member more than the data associated with another member that is not as similar to the particular member.

In some embodiments the features associated with one or more similar members or member connections of the particular member consistent with various embodiments described above may replace the features associated with the particular member of themselves. For example the features associated with similar members or member connections may be inserted into the feature vectors .

As described above the source module encodes the data accessed from the external data sources into one or more feature vectors and assembles the one or more feature vectors to thereby generate an assembled feature vector see . As understood by those skilled in pattern recognition and machine learning a feature vector is an n dimensional vector of numerical features that represent some object. According to various exemplary embodiments the source module may access a configuration file e.g. in database specifying raw data encoding rules that describe how the rotator is to be encoded into the feature vectors. An example of a raw data encoding rule is a particular member feature F located at storage location L of the external data source S is to be inserted into position X of a member feature vector M. Accordingly with reference to the configuration file may specify how the source module is to encode member e mail interaction features into a member e mail interaction feature vector member site interaction features into a member site interaction feature vector member profile features into a member profile feature vector and so on.

As described above the prediction module performs a prediction modeling process based on the assembled feature vector and a prediction model to predict a likelihood e.g. the probability of the particular member performing a particular user action e.g. click on the particular email content item e.g. a particular type of e mail .

The prediction module may use any one of various known prediction modeling techniques to perform the prediction modelling process. For example according to various exemplary embodiments the prediction module may perform the prediction modeling process based on a statistics based machine learning model such as a logistic regression model.

As understood by those skilled in the art logistic regression is an example of a statistics based machine learning technique that uses a logistic function. The logistic function is based on a variable referred to as a logit. The logit is defined in terms of a set of regression coefficients of corresponding independent predictor variables. Logistic regression can be used to predict the probability of occurrence of an event given a set of independent predictor variables. A highly simplified example machine learning model using logistic regression may be ln p 1 p a BX e or p 1 p exp a BX e where ln is the natural logarithm log where exp 2.71828 . . . p is the probability that the event Y occurs p Y 1 p 1 p is the odds ratio ln p 1 p is the log odds ratio or logit a is the coefficient on the constant term B is the regression coefficient s on the independent predictor variable s X is the independent predictor variable s and e is the error term.

The independent predictor variables of the logistic regression model are the attributes represented by the assembled feature vectors described throughout. The regression coefficients may be estimated using maximum likelihood or learned through a supervised learning technique from data collected in logs or calculated from log data as described in more detail below. Accordingly once the appropriate regression coefficients e.g. B are determined the features included in the assembled feature vector may be plugged in to the logistic regression model in order to predict the probability that the event Y occurs where the event Y may be for example whether the particular member clicks on the particular email content item in the particular context . In other words provided an assembled feature vector including various features associated with a particular member a particular email content item a member s email activities a member s other activities on an online social network service website and so on the assembled feature vector may be applied to a logistic regression model to determine the probability that the particular member will respond to the particular email content item in a particular way e.g. click . Logistic regression is well understood by those skilled in the art and will not be described in further detail herein in order to avoid occluding various aspects of this disclosure.

The prediction module may use various other prediction modeling techniques understood by those skilled in the art to predict whether a particular member will click on a particular email content item. For example other prediction modeling techniques may include other machine learning models such as a Na ve Bayes model a support vector machines SVM model a decision trees model and a neural network model all of which are understood by those skilled in the art.

According to various exemplary embodiments the email response prediction system may be used for the purposes of both off line training for generating training and refining a prediction model and online inferences for predicting whether a particular member will click on a particular email content item based on a prediction model .

For example if the prediction module is utilizing a logistic regression model as described above then the regression coefficients of the logistic regression model may be learned through a supervised learning technique from data collected in logs or calculated from log data. Accordingly in one embodiment the email response prediction system may operate in an off line training mode by assembling log data into assembled feature vectors. For example whenever a member of a social network service performs a particular user action on a particular email content item various information describing aspects of this interaction e.g. information describing the member information describing the email content item etc. may be stored as entries in an interaction log. Over time the log data may include millions or even billions of entries representing interactions between different members and different email content items. Accordingly the email response prediction system may access for example all the log entries in the past 30 days where various members performed various user actions e.g. a click or a non click on various email content items and the email response prediction system may convert each of these log entries into an assembled feature vector based on the various embodiments described herein. For the purposes of training the system the system generally needs both positive training examples of where users performed an action e.g. click as well as negative training examples of where users did not perform the action e.g. non click . The assembled feature vectors e.g. the assembled feature vector illustrated in may then be passed to the prediction module in order to refine regression coefficients for the logistic regression model. For example statistical learning based on the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers technique may be utilized for this task.

Thereafter once the regression coefficients are determined the email response prediction system may operate to perform online inferences based on the trained model including the trained model coefficients on a single assembled feature vector. For example according to various exemplary embodiments described herein the email response prediction system is configured to predict the likelihood that a particular member will perform a particular user action for various email content items in order to determine which of the various email content items should be displayed to the particular member in the particular context. For example suppose an online social network service is attempting to determine what type of email or content within an email should be sent to a user John Smith. The email response prediction system may predict the likelihood that the particular member John Smith will click on various email content items such as email content item E E E etc. given the particular context. Thereafter the email response prediction system may rank the email content items E E E etc. based on how likely it is that the user will perform the user action e.g. click on each of the email content items given the particular context. For example if the likelihood that the member will click on E and E is low but the likelihood that the member will click on E is high then email content item E may be ranked higher than E and E. Accordingly the email response prediction system may determine that E should be displayed to the member instead of E or E or that E should be displayed higher or more prominently than E or E since the prediction module has determined that the member is more likely to click on E than E or E. Accordingly this online inference process may be performed whenever an email is to be transmitted to a member and a determination is to be made as to what content should be displayed in the email.

In some embodiments after the prediction module determines the likelihood that a particular member performs a particular user action e.g. clicks opens views etc. on an e mail content item e.g. a particular type of e mail such as a network update e mail jobs update e mail a news update e mail etc. the email management module of the email response prediction system may compare the likelihood with various predetermined thresholds in order to adjust downshift or refine the quantity frequency and type of e mails being transmitted to the particular member.

In some embodiments if the predicted likelihood is lower than a predetermined threshold e.g. indicating that the particular member is not likely to click on that e mail content item then the email management module may reduce the distribution of that type of e mail content item to the particular member. For example in some embodiments the email management module may adjust e mail preference settings associated with the particular member e.g. see to cause the reduction in the distribution of that particular type of e mail content item to the particular member. For example in some embodiments the email management module may reduce the frequency of that particular type of e mail from being transmitted to the member e.g. from daily to weekly or monthly etc. . In some embodiments the email management module may temporarily prevent that e mail type from being transmitted to the member e.g. the email management module may prevent the next X e mails of that type from being transmitted to the member or the email management module may prevent that e mail type from being transmitted to the member for a given time period such as the next week or month or six months etc. . In some embodiments the email management module may automatically unsubscribe the user from that type of e mail. In some embodiments the email management module may reduce a quantity of that e mail content item within an e mail message e.g. only 2 news items per e mail instead of 10 news items per e mail . The may reduce this quantity of e mail content type either temporarily or indefinitely e.g. until the user changes the appropriate settings in their e mail preference settings .

In the case of a digest e mail which may include network updates news updates influencer posts group updates etc. if the prediction module determines that the likelihood that the particular member will perform the user action on that e mail content item is lower than a specific threshold then the email management module may reduce the distribution of that particular e mail content item in the digest e mails. For example the email management module may remove the e mail content type from the digest e mail indefinitely e.g. until the user changes the appropriate settings in their e mail preference settings . As another example the email management module may remove the e mail content type from the digest e mail temporarily e.g. for the next X digest e mails or for a given time period such as the next week or month or six months etc. . As another example the email management module may reduce a quantity of that e mail content item within the digest e mail message e.g. only two news items per digest e mail instead of 10 news items per digest e mail . As another example the email management module may reorder the contents of the digest email placing email content item lower or less prominently in the digest email.

In some embodiments if the likelihood is higher than a predetermined threshold e.g. indicating that the particular member is likely to click on that e mail content item then the email management module may maintain or increase the distribution of that type of e mail content item to the particular member. For example in some embodiments the email management module may adjust e mail preference settings associated with the particular member e.g. see to cause the increase in the distribution of that particular type of e mail content item to the particular member. For example in some embodiments the email management module may maintain or increase the frequency of that particular type of e mail from being transmitted to the member e.g. from monthly to weekly or daily etc. . In some embodiments the email management module may automatically subscribe the user for distribution of that type of e mail e.g. if the user was not already subscribed to that type of e mail . In some embodiments the email management module may increase a quantity of that e mail content item within an e mail message e.g. from 2 news items per e mail instead to 10 news items per e mail . The may increase this quantity of e mail content type either temporarily or indefinitely e.g. until the user changes the appropriate settings in their e mail preference settings .

In the case of a digest e mail which may include network updates news updates influencer posts group updates etc. . In such cases if the prediction module determines that the likelihood that the particular member will perform the user action on that e mail content item is higher than a specific threshold then the email management module may maintain or increase the distribution of that particular e mail content item in the digest e mails. For example the email management module may include that email content item type in the digest emails to the member e.g. if this was not already the case . As another example the email management module may increase a quantity of that e mail content item within the digest e mail message e.g. from two news items per digest e mail to 10 news items per digest e mail . As another example the email management module may reorder the contents of the digest email placing email content item higher or more prominently in the digest email.

In some embodiments the email response prediction system may be utilized for portfolio optimization processes e.g. where the e mail response prediction system adjusts various aspects of e mail distribution to conform to members interests holistically . For example the prediction module may utilize the calculated likelihoods for the purposes of e mail portfolio optimization by placing more or less restrictions on the amounts type characteristics and so on e mails sent to one or more members of an online social network. For example the prediction module may limit the total number of e mails per member and or maintain a global click through rate CTR across all e mails or e mails of a particular type and or limit a number of e mails sent to members per e mail type e.g. job related e mails and so on. Thus the email response prediction system may adjust the frequency of email distribution via thresholds as described elsewhere herein or via a more holistic approach where a number of parameters can be optimized simultaneously or a number of different constraints can be enforced simultaneously. In particular in some embodiments the e mail response prediction system may generate and maintain e mail portfolio optimization information per member. For example based on particular member s interests and inferred intent the system may choose a set of e mails every week to send to a member. As another example the system may make sure that the particular member does not receive more than five e mails per week and based on this constraint the system may either upshift or downshift the number of emails sent to the member but will make sure they receive the most relevant e mails . Another example of a constraint is that whomever receives email type 1 doesn t get e mail type 2 and so on. Thus it is understood that the system may utilize a more holistic approach where different types of constraints may be enforced simultaneously.

In some embodiments when the email management module adjusts the e mail settings of a member e.g. reducing or preventing the distribution of certain e mail type to a member the email management module may display a prompt informing the user that the e mail settings have been changed e.g. see and allowing the user to reject the change. In other embodiments the email management module may automatically adjust e mail settings of the member consistent with various embodiments described herein without displaying the aforementioned prompt or the user. In some embodiments the email management module may request user authorization to adjust the e mail settings of the member e.g. via a query prompt displayed in the user interface before proceeding to adjust e mail settings of the member.

According to various exemplary embodiments the email response prediction system may display the user interface allowing a member to adjust their e mail preferences settings. For example the email management module may display the user interface illustrated in . As illustrated in the email management module may display a prompt indicating that the email management module has automatically adjusted the e mail preferences of the user consistent with various embodiments described herein.

In some embodiments the system may take into account a relevance of the email content considering the member s profile skills past experience seniority level function area etc. . In some embodiments for the representation of the features the system use a number of techniques including computing confidence intervals based on historical actions depending on their distribution e.g. binomial distribution etc. and use the boundary values as features.

As described in various embodiments above some e mails such as personalized digest e mails may include various types of content therein. In some embodiments a particular e mail such as a digest e mail may include a specific portion of content e.g. at the bottom of the e mail that may be referred to as promotion content or sample content that displays information about a particular product or service such as a product or service associated with an online social network service e.g. a people you may know a network update stream product on the LinkedIn social network service . Thus the promotion content may be similar to an advertisement and may be configured to promote or provide a user with a sample of different types of products and services of the online social network service. For example illustrates an exemplary e mail e.g. digest e mail where the e mail includes a main portion with one or more pieces of content as well as a lower portion that includes promotion content . Such promotion content may be included in any type of e mail such as network update e mails content to digest e mails group digest e mails and so on in order to encourage users to become engaged with various products on LinkedIn or another website or service. It is understood that an email may include multiple instances of promotion content anywhere in the email and not necessarily at the bottom of the email .

Accordingly the framework and techniques described in various embodiments herein may be utilized to find what piece of promotion content makes more sense for each e mail and or for each user. More specifically the e mail response prediction system may be utilized to determine the particular type and form of promotion content that is most appropriate to include in a particular e mail having other types of content consistent with various embodiments described herein. For example the e mail content response prediction system may predict that if the member is more likely to be engaged with this type of product the system may determine that promotion content related to that type of product should be included in the e mail. As another example if the email content response prediction system determines that users viewing emails already including content types A B and C are more likely to be interested in content related to D but not content related to E the system may choose promotion content related to D as appropriate. More specifically for a given slot position in given e mail type the e mail response prediction system is configured to rank n number of external sources of content that were not originally part of that e mail and to choose one or more of the external sources of content to be displayed as the promotion content as illustrated in . And depending on the type of e mail or the content included in the email this ranked list will change. For example sometimes a particular piece of promotion content will not make sense a given type of e mail e.g. if other more detailed content related to the same product is already included in the email . Thus it is understood that various embodiments described here may be applied to selecting promotion content to include in an e mail.

As described above various features such as email activities other activities on site e.g. page views searches etc. social network activities context hour of day mobile geo etc. member profile data member connections similar members features and so on may be tied into and defined in feature vectors. In alternative embodiments the system may not necessarily use all of the features as part of a vector and instead may utilize them in a slightly different manner such as to train different models in a segmented model approach. This may be advantageous because it is possible that there are some features that change the model behavior dramatically. For example suppose the behavior of jobseekers may be dramatically different from that of other users on LinkedIn . Accordingly if the system trains a model using examples only from job seekers the model behavior may be highly specialized because the behavior of jobseekers is in this example dramatically different from that of other members. But if the system includes both job seekers and non job seekers together the overall model performance may not be as successful at predicting the responses of job seekers and non job seekers with their own specialized models. Thus the email response prediction system may utilize a segmented model approach where data is split based on some criteria e.g. features of job seekers vs. features of non jobseekers and separate models are trained for different data sets e.g. features of job seekers vs. features of non jobseekers .

Various techniques and embodiments described herein may be applied in the context of a Delivery Time Optimization DTO process or campaign. For example the email response prediction system may identify when would be the best time to deliver send email s to members in accordance with DTO in order to improve the response rate clicks conversions etc. to the email s by sending the email s at the most appropriate time. For example the email response prediction system may predict a personalized delivery time which could be in the form of day of week and or hour of day value etc. for a given member and email pair. The email response prediction system may utilize a member s profile data context information geolocation information access time information etc as well as a member s historical activities on emails and on the site and any other features as described herein in order to predict the aforementioned personalized delivery time. In a case where there are multiple emails to send in a given time window e.g. emails selected in connection with an email portfolio optimization process as described in various embodiments herein the email response prediction system may predict when exactly to send such emails.

For example as described herein the email response prediction system is configured to predict a likelihood of a particular user X performing a particular user action Y on a particular message content item Z. According to various embodiments the email response prediction system may utilize this approach to determine the optimum personalized delivery time to transmit a message to a particular member of an online social network service. For example in some embodiments the email response prediction system may determine for each of a plurality of time intervals a likelihood of a particular member of an online social network service performing a particular user action on a particular message content item during the corresponding time interval. The plurality of time intervals may then be ranked based on the determined likelihoods corresponding to the plurality of time intervals. Thereafter a particular time interval that is associated with a highest ranking may be identified from among the plurality of time intervals. The particular time interval may then be classified as an optimum personalized message delivery time for the particular member.

In some embodiments one of the features utilized in predicting the likelihood that a member will interact with a message content item is the current time zone of the member i.e. the time zone associated with the current location of the member . For example the email response prediction system may include a time zone inference module see configured to determine the current time zone of the member. The operation of the time zone inference module is described in greater detail below. Thus a time zone feature e.g. a numerical value indicating a time zone associated with a given member may then be input into the feature vector for the purposes of performing prediction modeling consistent with various embodiments described herein. For example with reference to such feature s may be included in the feature vector including the member profile data. Alternatively as illustrated in such time zone feature s may be included in a separate time zone feature vector that may be passed into the assembled feature vector consistent with various embodiments described herein.

Time zone feature s may be useful for determining the likelihood that a particular member in a particular time zone will perform a particular user action on a particular message content item since such features may be utilized to identify trends of how other members located in a particular time zone responded to e mails. For example it may be the case that most users in a particular time zone e.g. the Pacific time zone PST tend to respond strongly to e mails in the afternoon local PST whereas most users in another time zone e.g. China standard Time zone CST tend to respond more strongly to e mails in the morning local CST. Thus the prediction models described herein may be trained on a time zone feature in conjunction with various other features described herein in order to determine the weight or relevance of such features in predicting how likely it is the user will interact with a particular content item during a particular time interval. For example the prediction models described herein may be trained based on training data indicating how members located in each time zone have interacted with e mail content during various local times of the day. Thus when performing an online inference to determine the likelihood that a particular member located in a particular time zone will interact in some manner with a particular content item the historical interactions by other members in that time zone may be utilized in the prediction modeling.

In some embodiments one of the features utilized in predicting the likelihood that a member will interact with a message content item is experimental data indicating the results of various e mail response experiments. For example the email response prediction system may include an experiment module configured to transmit messages to a plurality of members at various local times e.g. times of the day and analyze the response to the messages. For example the experiment module may send messages to users in each location at different e.g. random or fixed times of the day and by analyzing how the users interact with the transmitted e mails the experiment module may determine which times of the day produce the best responses to the messages e.g. as measured by click through rates in that time zone. The operation of the experiment module is described in greater detail below. Such experiment features e.g. numerical values indicating message experiment response metrics associated with each of various locations or time zones may then be input into a feature vector for the purposes of performing prediction modeling consistent with various embodiments described herein. For example with reference to such feature s may be included in the feature vector including the member e mail interaction data. Alternatively as illustrated in such experiment feature s may be included in a separate experiment data feature vector that may be passed into the assembled feature vector consistent with various embodiments described herein.

The experimental feature s described above may be useful for determining the likelihood that a particular member will perform a particular user action on a particular e mail content item since such features may be utilized to identify trends of how other members located in a particular time zone have responded to e mails during experiments. For example it may be the case that most users in a particular geographic location have responded strongly to e mails in the afternoon in response to the experiments described herein whereas most users in another location have responded more strongly to e mails in the morning in response to the experiments described herein. Thus the prediction models described herein may be trained on experiment feature data in conjunction with various other features described herein in order to determine the weight or relevance of such features in predicting how likely it is the user will interact with a particular content item during a particular time interval. For example the prediction models described herein may be trained based on training data indicating experiment response metrics associated with members located in each time zone. Thus when performing an online inference to determine the likelihood that a particular member located in a particular time zone will interact in some manner with a particular content item the experimental results indicating interactions by other members in that time zone may be utilized in the prediction modeling.

In some embodiments the flow illustrated in may be performed in connection with each time zone. For example the prediction module may be trained based on training data associated with members in the particular time zone e.g. the features included in the vectors and may be associated with members located in a particular time zone in order to generate a model optimized for that particular time zone. In some embodiments a single prediction module may perform the modeling for each time zone. In other embodiments multiple prediction modules may be provided with each prediction module performing modeling for a given time zone.

In operation the prediction module ranks the plurality of time intervals based on the determined likelihoods corresponding to the plurality of time intervals. For example the time interval associated with the highest likelihood may be ranked highest first the time interval associated with the second highest likelihood may be ranked second and so on. In operation the prediction module identifies a particular time interval from among the plurality of time intervals that is associated with a highest ranking. For example if each of the time intervals corresponds to a particular hour of the day then the prediction module will identify the hour of the day when the particular member is most likely to perform the particular user action on the message content item. In operation the prediction module classifies the particular time interval as an optimum personalized message delivery time for the particular member. For example if the time interval associated with the highest likelihood is 2 3 pm then the optimum personalized message delivery time may be set to 2 3 pm. Alternatively the optimum personalized message delivery time may be set to a particular time or smaller time interval within the relevant time interval e.g. 2 30 PM or another time interval that is associated with the relevant time interval e.g. the preceding hour such as 1 2 PM or a greater time interval that includes the relevant time interval e.g. 1 5 PM etc. . Thereafter the prediction module may adjust message delivery preferences associated with the particular member to indicate the optimum personalized message delivery time. Further the prediction module may transmit a message to the particular member at the optimum personalized message delivery time based on the updated message delivery preferences associated with the particular member. It is contemplated that the operations of method may incorporate any of the other features disclosed herein. Various operations in the method may be omitted or rearranged as necessary.

According to various example embodiments the time zone inference module is configured to determine a time zone in which a user e.g. a member of an online social network service is located.

For example in accordance with one example embodiment the time zone inference module may utilize a combination of member profile attributes and IP address login information associated with a member in order to determine the current time zone of the member. For example the time zone inference module may first analyze member profile attributes of the member in order to determine if they are currently located in a particular country. For example the time zone inference module may identify whether a user specified country attribute identifying a particular country is defined in the member profile information of the member e.g. as a result of the member specifying their current country of residence when they opened a member account on the online social network service . Thereafter the time zone inference module may access publicly available time zone information indicating time zones associated with each of a plurality of countries. If the time zone inference module determines that a single time zone is associated with the particular country the time zone inference module may determine that the member is currently located in that single time zone. On the other hand if the time zone inference module determines that multiple time zones are associated with the particular country then the time zone inference module may access the last IP address associated with the last member login request from that member e.g. from the last time that member logged into a website . Based on this IP address the time zone inference module may determine a geographic location e.g. a city associated with the IP address and a time zone associated with that geographic location in order to ultimately identify the specific time zone from among the multiple time zones in that country that the particular member is currently located in.

According to various example embodiments the time zone inference module may utilize any one of various factors in order to determine the current time zone of the member. For example the time zone inference module may analyze member profile attributes associated with the member e.g. a user specified country attribute a current employer attribute a current educational attribute etc. . For example as described above the time zone inference module may determine that the member is likely located in a particular geographic location based on a user specified country attribute or contact information defined in the member profile information of the member e.g. as a result of the member specifying their current country or contact information when they opened a member account on the online social network service . As another example the time zone inference module may determine that a particular member is currently located in a particular geographic location if a current education attribute included in the member profile associated with that particular member indicates an educational institution located in the particular country. As another example the time zone inference module may determine that a particular member is currently located in a particular geographic location if a current employer attribute included in the member profile associated with that particular member indicates an employer located in that geographic location. Examples of member profile attributes include without limitation name title industry geographic location contact information current employer previous employer current educational institution previous educational institution degree skills recommendations endorsements company size seniority level and so on. The time zone inference module may then identify a time zone associated with a geographic location based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones and determine that the member is currently located in that particular time zone.

In some embodiments the time zone inference module may also take into account member behavioral activity such as interactions or social activity information posted in connection with various products or features of a website e.g. the online social network service such as LinkedIn . For example if the member posts information on an online social network e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter etc. indicating that they are currently located at a particular venue e.g. a check in or status update on Facebook or LinkedIn at a restaurant event convention hall store city etc. the time zone inference module may determine that the member is currently located at that venue and may identify the geographic location of that venue. The time zone inference module may then identify the time zone in which that venue is located based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones in order to ultimately determine that the member is currently located in that time zone.

In some embodiments the time zone inference module may access geolocation information from a mobile device of the member based on any known geolocation techniques. Thereafter by determining that the member is currently located in a particular geographic location e.g. a particular city the time zone inference module may identify a time zone associated with that geographic location based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones and determine that the member is currently located in that particular time zone.

In some embodiments the time zone inference module may access IP address information associated with login requests received from the member e.g. when a member logs into a website such as website associated with an online social network service . By accessing a recent IP address e.g. from the last 24 hours utilized by the member to login to the site the time zone inference module may then use known IP address lookup techniques to identify a geographic location associated with this IP address e.g. a city or state . The time zone inference module may identify a time zone associated with that geographic location based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones and determine that the member is currently located in that particular time zone.

It is understood that the time zone inference module described herein may utilize any combination of the aforementioned sources of information e.g. member profile data member behavioral activity member interactions with the site geolocation information IP address login information and so on in order to determine the particular time zone of the member.

For example in some embodiments the time zone inference module may take into account any combination of the aforementioned sources of information in order to determine a probability or confidence score indicating the likelihood that the member is currently located in a particular time zone. For example in some embodiments weights may be assigned to each of the various sources of information including user specified country attribute in the member profile data a current university attribute in the member profile data a current employer attribute in the member profile data current location or check in information displayed in a post or status update by the member on an online social network service geolocation information IP address login information and so on . Thus in some example embodiments the time zone inference module may determine the current time zone of the member based on different sources of information and if there is a discrepancy in these determinations the time zone inference module may place a greater emphasis on the determination from a first source of information if that first source of information is associated with a higher weight. As an example the time zone inference module may place a lower weight on member profile data of the member but a higher weight in the geolocation information from the member s mobile device. Accordingly if the member profile data of the member indicates that the member is currently located in the US but the geolocation information from the mobile device of the member indicates a location in Bangalore India the time zone inference module may determine that the member is currently located in the time zone associated with Bangalore India due to the higher weight assigned to the geolocation information. Put another way in this example the geolocation information effectively overrides the information from the member profile data of the member. Thus the time zone inference module may generate a higher confidence score associated with the possibility that the member is located in the time zone associated with Bangalore India.

In some embodiments the time zone inference module may display a user interface allowing a user of the time zone inference module e.g. an administrator or website personnel to adjust any of the aforementioned weights in accordance with campaign goals and various product objectives. For example the success of some e mail products may depend on understanding the current time zone of the member in order to effectively target emails and other content to the member. If it is important for a particular product to have access to the real time time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for an e mail being sent immediately then the geolocation information IP address information or the social activity information may be given greater importance and be assigned a higher weight whereas the member profile data may be assigned smaller weight. On the other hand if it is important for a particular product to have access to a stable long term time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for weekly or monthly digest e mails being transmitted to the member then perhaps the member profile data may be assigned a higher weight in comparison to other sources of information.

As described above the time zone inference module may take into account any combination of the aforementioned sources of information in order to determine a probability or confidence score indicating the likelihood that the member is currently located in a particular time zone. In some embodiments the time zone inference module may perform prediction modeling using one or more prediction models e.g. statistical machine learning models in order to generate the aforementioned confidence score. Examples of prediction models include a logistic regression model a Na ve Bayes model a support vector machines SVM model a decision trees model and a neural network model. For example in some embodiments a prediction model may be trained based on feature data e.g. member profile data social activity information geolocation information IP address login information etc. associated with a large plurality of members located in known time zones. Once trained the prediction module may receive available features associated with a single particular member e.g. member profile data social activity information geolocation information IP address login information etc. in order to determine the likelihood that this member is currently located in a particular time zone.

In some embodiments the time zone inference module may take into account historical data associated with any of the aforementioned sources of information in order to detect a change in time zone associated with the member and in order to determine whether such a change in time zone represents a permanent or temporary change in time zone. For example by examining the IP address information associated with the member the time zone inference module may detect a change in the IP address used by the member to login to the site. Based on this information the time zone inference module may determine not only the current time zone of the member as describe above but also that the current time zone of the member represents a change in time zone. Moreover by analyzing a log of the previous IP addresses used by the member to login to the site the time zone inference module may determine that since only the last IP address has changed there is a high confidence score or likelihood that this is only a temporary change in time zone. This confidence score or likelihood may be reinforced by any of the other aforementioned sources of information e.g. member profile data social activity information etc. which may not indicate any historical change . On the other hand if the time zone inference module determines that the last 20 IP addresses used to login to the site have changed to correspond to a new geographic location and that the member profile data of the member indicates a new employer located at that geographic location then the time zone inference module may determine that there is a high confidence score or likelihood that this is a permanent change in time zone. In some embodiments feature data including such historical information may be fed into a prediction model in order to compute confidence scores as described in more detail above.

The confidence score indicating the likelihood that a change in time zone represents a permanent or temporary change may be valuable in different ways depending on the relevant product or services utilizing this information in accordance with various campaign goals and product objectives. For example if it is important for a particular product to have access to the real time time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for an e mail being sent immediately even if this represents a temporary change in time zone then the time zone inference module may simply utilize the current time zone of the member. On the other hand suppose it is important for a particular product to have access to the long term time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for weekly or monthly digest e mails being transmitted to the member . In such case the determination that the current time zone represents a temporary change in time zone may result in the previously established time zone of the member being utilized. On the other hand the determination that the current time zone represents a permanent change in time zone may result in the current time zone being utilized.

According to various example embodiments the experiment module is configured to identify the optimum time for delivering messages e.g. e mails to users in different geographic locations e.g. different time zones . The experiment module may identify optimum local message delivery times by performing various message response experiments with respect to users in each location. For example the experiment module may send messages to users in each location at different e.g. random times of the day and by analyzing how the users interact with the transmitted e mails the experiment module may determine which times of the day produce the best responses to the messages e.g. as measured by click through rates in that time zone. For instance in some embodiments the experiment module may identify a test segment base of for example 5000 members of an online social network service that are currently located in a particular time zone. Thereafter during an experiment cycle e.g. one week the experiment module may transmit 5000 instances of an e mail one to each of the 5000 members at random times of the day. In other words each of the 5000 members may receive the e mail once during the week long experiment cycle at a random time of the day. By analyzing response metric associated with each of the e mails the experiment module may determine that for example e mails transmitted at a particular time of day e.g. 2 35 PM or at a particular time interval e.g. between 1.30 PM and 4 PM tend to receive much higher response metrics e.g. click through rates in comparison to the messages transmitted at other times of the day or at other time intervals. The experiment module may then classify such a time or time interval as an optimum local delivery time. In some embodiments the experiment module may classify the optimum local delivery time as a time interval e.g. a one hour bucket that includes the original e mail transmission time that was associated with the highest response metric. For example if messages transmitted at 2 35 PM tend to have the best response metrics the experiment module may determine that the optimum local delivery time is 2 PM to 3 PM.

In some embodiments the geographic locations described herein may correspond to any known type of location such as a time zone building street neighbourhood suburb city county state region country latitude longitude etc. The experiment module may determine that a member is currently located in a particular time zone based on for example output from the time zone inference module e.g. after querying the time zone inference module . In some embodiments the messages described herein may be any type of electronic message including an e mail text message e.g. a short messaging service SMS message a multimedia messaging service MMS message etc. an instant message associated with an online social network e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Wechat WhatsApp etc. a chat message associated with an online chat service and so on.

In some embodiments the response metrics described herein may correspond to any type of metric for measurement of how a user interacts with or responds to a content item such as a message. For example the response metric may correspond to an access rate indicating rates at which users open view or access a message e.g. by clicking on the message in an inbox in order to open and view the message . Such an access rate may measure the number of access events in comparison to a number of impressions e.g. the number of times the message was transmitted . The response metric may also correspond to a raw number of access events a number of access events during a predetermined time interval and so on. In some embodiments the response metric may correspond to a click through rate indicating rates at which users click on some content within the message e.g. a reference link that takes the user to a site . Such a click through rate may measure the number of clicks in comparison to a number of impressions e.g. the number of times the message was rendered to users . The response metric may also correspond to a raw number of clicks a number of clicks during a predetermined time interval and so on. In some embodiments the response metric may correspond to a reply rate indicating rates at which users reply to the message. Such a reply rate may measure the number of replies in comparison to a number of impressions e.g. the number of times the message was rendered and viewed by users or the number of times the message was transmitted to users . The response metric may also correspond to a raw number of replies a number of replies to during a predetermined time interval and so on. Similarly other types of response metrics capturing other possible types of responses may be utilized e.g. specific user interface movements such as swipes expanding content zooming in and out of content conversions deletions of content unsubscribes marking content as spam hover responses etc. .

In some embodiments the experiment module may simply transmit e mails at random times of the day during an experiment cycle as described above. In other embodiments the experiment module may transmit the e mails at predetermined or fixed times of the day as opposed to random times of the day . For example the experiment module may display a user interface enabling a user of the email response prediction system to specify exact times when e mails should be transmitted or to specify that e mails should be transmitted at fixed intervals e.g. every second every minute every 30 minutes every hour etc. .

In some embodiments the techniques described herein may be utilized to determine not only an optimum time of the day to transmit e mails but also an optimum day of the week to transmit e mails. For example the experiment module may transmit e mails to each of the 5000 members in the test base at the same time of the day e.g. 10 AM on a random weekday doing the given experiment cycle and may analyze the results to determine if e mails transmitted on a certain day of the week tend to produce greater response metrics.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi LTE and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

