---

title: Nemorubicin metabolite and analog reagents, antibody-drug conjugates and methods
abstract: where one or more nemorubicin metabolite or analog drug moieties (D) are covalently attached by a linker (L) to an antibody (Ab) which binds to one or more tumor-associated antigens or cell-surface receptors. These compounds may be useful in methods of diagnosis or treatment of cancer, and other diseases and disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09492553&OS=09492553&RS=09492553
owner: GENENTECH, INC.
number: 09492553
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140416
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 865 354 filed Nov. 30 2010 which is a National Stage application of International Application No. PCT US2009 031199 filed Jan. 16 2009 which claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 61 025 504 filed on Feb. 1 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The invention relates generally to compounds with anti cancer activity and more specifically to antibodies conjugated with chemotherapeutic nemorubicin metabolite and analog drugs. The invention also relates to methods of using the antibody drug conjugate compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Antibody therapy has been established for the targeted treatment of patients with cancer immunological and angiogenic disorders Carter P. 2006 Nature Reviews Immunology 6 343 357 . The use of antibody drug conjugates ADC i.e. immunoconjugates for the local delivery of cytotoxic or cytostatic agents i.e. drugs to kill or inhibit tumor cells in the treatment of cancer targets delivery of the drug moiety to tumors and intracellular accumulation therein whereas systemic administration of these unconjugated drug agents may result in unacceptable levels of toxicity to normal cells as well as the tumor cells sought to be eliminated Xie et al 2006 Expert. Opin. Biol. Ther. 6 3 281 291 Kovtun et al 2006 Cancer Res. 66 6 3214 3121 Law et al 2006 Cancer Res. 66 4 2328 2337 Wu et al 2005 Nature Biotech. 23 9 1137 1145 Lambert J. 2005 Current Opin. in Pharmacol. 5 543 549 Hamann P. 2005 Expert Opin. Ther. Patents 15 9 1087 1103 Payne G. 2003 Cancer Cell 3 207 212 Trail et al 2003 Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 52 328 337 Syrigos and Epenetos 1999 Anticancer Research 19 605 614 . Maximal efficacy with minimal toxicity is sought thereby. Efforts to design and refine ADC have focused on the selectivity of monoclonal antibodies mAbs as well as drug mechanism of action drug linking drug antibody ratio loading and drug releasing properties McDonagh 2006 Protein Eng. Design Sel. Doronina et al 2006 Bioconj. Chem. 17 114 124 Erickson et al 2006 Cancer Res. 66 8 1 8 Sanderson et al 2005 Clin. Cancer Res. 11 843 852 Jeffrey et al 2005 J. Med. Chem. 48 1344 1358 Hamblett et al 2004 Clin. Cancer Res. 10 7063 7070 . Drug moieties may impart their cytotoxic and cytostatic effects by mechanisms including tubulin binding DNA binding or topoisomerase inhibition. Some cytotoxic drugs tend to be inactive or less active when conjugated to large antibodies or protein receptor ligands.

The anthracycline analog doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN is thought to interact with DNA by intercalation and inhibition of the progression of the enzyme topoisomerase II which unwinds DNA for transcription. Doxorubicin stabilizes the topoisomerase II complex after it has broken the DNA chain for replication preventing the DNA double helix from being resealed and thereby stopping the process of replication. Doxorubicin and daunorubicin DAUNOMYCIN are prototype cytotoxic natural product anthracycline chemotherapeutics Sessa et al 2007 Cardiovasc. Toxicol. 7 75 79 . Immunoconjugates and prodrugs of daunorubicin and doxorubicin have been prepared and studied Kratz et al 2006 Current Med. Chem. 13 477 523 Jeffrey et al 2006 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 16 358 362 Torgov et al 2005 Bioconj. Chem. 16 717 721 Nagy et al 2000 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 97 829 834 Dubowchik et al 2002 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Letters 12 1529 1532 King et al 2002 J. Med. Chem. 45 4336 4343 U.S. Pat. No. 6 630 579 . The antibody drug conjugate BR96 doxorubicin reacts specifically with the tumor associated antigen Lewis Y and has been evaluated in phase I and II studies Saleh et al 2000 J. Clin. Oncology 18 2282 2292 Ajani et al 2000 Cancer Jour. 6 78 81 Tolcher et al 1999 J. Clin. Oncology 17 478 484 .

Morpholino analogs of doxorubicin and daunorubicin formed by cyclization on the glycoside amino group have greater potency Acton et al 1984 J. Med. Chem. 638 645 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 464 529 4 672 057 5 304 687 . Nemorubicin is a semisynthetic analog of doxorubicin with a 2 methoxymorpholino group on the glycoside amino of doxorubicin and has been under clinical evaluation Grandi et al 1990 Cancer Treat. Rew. 17 133 Ripamonti et al 1992 Brit. J. Cancer 65 703 including phase II III trials for hepatocellular carcinoma Sun et al 2003 Proceedings of the American Society for Clinical Oncology 22 Abs1448 Quintieri 2003 Proceedings of the American Association of Cancer Research 44 1st Ed Abs 4649 Pacciarini et al 2006 Jour. Clin. Oncology 24 14116 

Nemorubicin is named as 8S 10S 6 8 11 trihydroxy 10 2R 4S 5S 6S 5 hydroxy 4 S 2 methoxymorpholino 6 methyltetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy 8 2 hydroxyacetyl 1 methoxy 7 8 9 10 tetrahydrotetracene 5 12 dione with CAS Reg. No. 108852 90 0 and has the structure 

Several metabolites of nemorubicin MMDX from liver microsomes have been characterized including PNU 159682 Quintieri et al 2005 Clinical Cancer Research 11 4 1608 1617 Beulz Riche et al 2001 Fundamental Clinical Pharmacology 15 6 373 378 EP 0889898 WO 2004 082689 WO 2004 082579 . PNU 159682 was remarkably more cytotoxic than nemorubicin and doxorubicin in vitro and was effective in vivo tumor models. PNU 159682 is named as 3 deamino 3 4 anhydro 2 S methoxy 3 R oxy 4 morpholinyl doxorubicin and has the structure 

The present invention provides nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety reagents for the preparation of therapeutic antibody drug conjugate ADC compounds.

The present invention also provides nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug linker reagents for the preparation of therapeutic antibody drug conjugate ADC compounds.

The present invention also provides therapeutic antibody drug conjugate ADC compounds comprising nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moieties with biological activity against cancer cells. The compounds may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

Aspects of the invention include methods of making methods of preparing methods of synthesis methods of conjugation and methods of purification of the drug moiety reagents the drug linker reagents and the antibody drug conjugate compounds.

Antibody drug conjugate ADC compounds of the invention comprise an antibody Ab covalently attached by a linker L to one or more nemorubicin metabolite or analog drug moieties D . The ADC may be represented by Formula I Ab L D I

Another aspect of the invention is a composition comprising a mixture of antibody drug compounds of Formula I where the average drug loading per antibody is about 2 to about 5 or about 3 to about 4.

Another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition including a Formula I ADC compound a mixture of Formula I ADC compounds or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or excipient.

Another aspect provides a pharmaceutical combination comprising a Formula I ADC compound and a second compound having anticancer properties or other therapeutic effects.

Another aspect is a method for killing or inhibiting the proliferation of tumor cells or cancer cells comprising treating the cells with an amount of an antibody drug conjugate of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof being effective to kill or inhibit the proliferation of the tumor cells or cancer cells.

Another aspect is a method of treating cancer comprising administering to a patient a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition including a Formula I ADC.

Another aspect includes articles of manufacture i.e. kits comprising an antibody drug conjugate a container and a package insert or label indicating a treatment.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. Unless defined otherwise technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs and are consistent with Singleton et al. 1994 2. J. Wiley Sons New York N.Y. and Janeway C. Travers P. Walport M. Shlomchik 2001 5th Ed. Garland Publishing New York.

Unless stated otherwise the following terms and phrases as used herein are intended to have the following meanings.

When trade names are used herein applicants intend to independently include the trade name product formulation the generic drug and the active pharmaceutical ingredient s of the trade name product.

The term amino acid side chain includes those groups found in i naturally occurring amino acids such as alanine arginine asparagine aspartic acid cysteine glutamine glutamic acid glycine histidine isoleucine leucine lysine methionine phenylalanine proline serine threonine tryptophan tyrosine and valine ii minor amino acids such as ornithine and citrulline iii unnatural amino acids beta amino acids synthetic analogs and derivatives of naturally occurring amino acids and iv all enantiomers diastereomers isomerically enriched isotopically labelled protected forms and racemic mixtures thereof.

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies dimers multimers multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies and antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity Miller et al 2003 Jour. of Immunology 170 4854 4861 . Antibodies may be murine human humanized chimeric or derived from other species. An antibody is a protein generated by the immune system that is capable of recognizing and binding to a specific antigen. Janeway C. Travers P. Walport M. Shlomchik 2001 5th Ed. Garland Publishing New York . A target antigen generally has numerous binding sites also called epitopes recognized by CDRs on multiple antibodies. Each antibody that specifically binds to a different epitope has a different structure. Thus one antigen may have more than one corresponding antibody. An antibody includes a full length immunoglobulin molecule or an immunologically active portion of a full length immunoglobulin molecule i.e. a molecule that contains an antigen binding site that immunospecifically binds an antigen of a target of interest or part thereof such targets including but not limited to cancer cell or cells that produce autoimmune antibodies associated with an autoimmune disease. The immunoglobulin can be of any type e.g. IgG IgE IgM IgD and IgA class e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 and IgA2 or subclass of immunoglobulin molecule. The immunoglobulins can be derived from any species including human murine or rabbit origin.

 Antibody fragments comprise a portion of a full length antibody generally the antigen binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments diabodies linear antibodies fragments produced by a Fab expression library anti idiotypic anti Id antibodies CDR complementary determining region and epitope binding fragments of any of the above which immunospecifically bind to cancer cell antigens viral antigens or microbial antigens single chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific being directed against a single antigenic site. Furthermore in contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations which include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their specificity the monoclonal antibodies are advantageous in that they may be synthesized uncontaminated by other antibodies. The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al 1975 256 495 or may be made by recombinant DNA methods see U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 . The monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al 1991 Nature 352 624 628 Marks et al 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 597.

The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically include chimeric antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al 1984 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81 6851 6855 . Chimeric antibodies include primatized antibodies comprising variable domain antigen binding sequences derived from a non human primate e.g. Old World Monkey or Ape and human constant region sequences.

An intact antibody herein is one comprising a VL and VH domains as well as a light chain constant domain CL and heavy chain constant domains CH1 CH2 and CH3. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains e.g. human native sequence constant domains or amino acid sequence variant thereof. The intact antibody may have one or more effector functions which refer to those biological activities attributable to the Fc region a native sequence Fc region or amino acid sequence variant Fc region of an antibody. Examples of antibody effector functions include C1q binding complement dependent cytotoxicity Fc receptor binding antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC phagocytosis and down regulation of cell surface receptors such as B cell receptor and BCR.

Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains intact antibodies can be assigned to different classes. There are five major classes of intact antibodies IgA IgD IgE IgG and IgM and several of these may be further divided into subclasses isotypes e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA and IgA2. The heavy chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of antibodies are called and respectively. The subunit structures and three dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known.

An ErbB receptor is a receptor protein tyrosine kinase which belongs to the ErbB receptor family which are important mediators of cell growth differentiation and survival. The ErbB receptor family includes four distinct members including epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR ErbB1 HER1 HER2 ErbB2 or p185 HER3 ErbB3 and HER4 ErbB4 or tyro2 . The ErbB receptor will generally comprise an extracellular domain which may bind an ErbB ligand a lipophilic transmembrane domain a conserved intracellular tyrosine kinase domain and a carboxyl terminal signaling domain harboring several tyrosine residues which can be phosphorylated. The ErbB receptor may be a native sequence ErbB receptor or an amino acid sequence variant thereof. The ErbB receptor may be native sequence human ErbB receptor. Accordingly a member of the ErbB receptor family is EGFR ErbB1 ErbB2 ErbB3 ErbB4 or any other ErbB receptor currently known or to be identified in the future. Sequence identity screening has resulted in the identification of two other ErbB receptor family members ErbB3 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 183 884 5 480 968 Kraus et al 1989 PNAS USA 86 9193 9197 and ErbB4 EP 599274 Plowman et al 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 1746 1750 and Plowman et al 1993 Nature 366 473 475 . Both of these receptors display increased expression on at least some breast cancer cell lines. Anti ErbB2 antibodies have been characterized U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 677 171 5 821 337 6 054 297 6 165 464 6 407 213 6 719 971 6 800 738 Fendly et al 1990 Cancer Research 50 1550 1558 Kotts et al. 1990 In Vitro 26 3 59A Sarup et al. 1991 Growth Regulation 1 72 82 Shepard et al. J. 1991 Clin. Immunol. 11 3 117 127 Kumar et al. 1991 Mol. Cell. Biol. 11 2 979 986 Lewis et al. 1993 Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 37 255 263 Pietras et al. 1994 Oncogene 9 1829 1838 Vitetta et al. 1994 Cancer Research 54 5301 5309 Sliwkowski et al. 1994 J. Biol. Chem. 269 20 14661 14665 Scott et al. 1991 J. Biol. Chem. 266 14300 5 D souza et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 1994 91 7202 7206 Lewis et al. 1996 Cancer Research 56 1457 1465 and Schaefer et al. 1997 Oncogene 15 1385 1394.

 Humanized forms of non human e.g. rodent antibodies are chimeric antibodies that contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. For the most part humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues from a hypervariable region of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat rabbit or nonhuman primate having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. In some instances framework region FR residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues. Furthermore humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance. In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable loops correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FRs are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin Jones et al 1986 Nature 321 522 525 Riechmann et al 1988 Nature 332 323 329 and Presta 1992 Curr. Op. Struct. Biol. 2 593 596 . Humanized anti ErbB2 antibodies include huMAb4D5 1 huMAb4D5 2 huMAb4D5 3 huMAb4D5 4 huMAb4D5 5 huMAb4D5 6 huMAb4D5 7 and huMAb4D5 8 HERCEPTIN trastuzumab as described in Table 3 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 expressly incorporated herein by reference humanized 520C9 WO 93 21319 and humanized 2C4 antibodies.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

A disorder is any condition that would benefit from treatment of the present invention. This includes chronic and acute disorders or diseases including those pathological conditions which predispose the mammal to the disorder in question. Non limiting examples of disorders to be treated herein include benign and malignant tumors leukemia and lymphoid malignancies in particular breast ovarian stomach endometrial salivary gland lung kidney colon thyroid pancreatic prostate or bladder cancer neuronal glial astrocytal hypothalamic and other glandular macrophagal epithelial stromal and blastocoelic disorders and inflammatory angiogenic and immunologic disorders. An exemplary disorder to be treated in accordance with the present invention is a solid malignant tumor.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of a drug effective to treat a disease or disorder in a mammal. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may i reduce the number of cancer cells ii reduce the tumor size iii inhibit retard slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs iv inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis v inhibit tumor growth and or vi relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. In animal models efficacy may be assessed by physical measurements of the tumor during the course following administration of the ADC and by determining partial and complete remission of tumor. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The term bioavailability refers to the systemic availability i.e. blood plasma levels of a given amount of drug administered to a patient. Bioavailability is an absolute term that indicates measurement of both the time rate and total amount extent of drug that reaches the general circulation from an administered dosage form.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer gastrointestinal stromal tumor GIST pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

An ErbB expressing cancer is one comprising cells which have ErbB protein present at their cell surface. An ErbB2 expressing cancer is one which produces sufficient levels of ErbB2 at the surface of cells thereof such that an anti ErbB2 antibody can bind thereto and have a therapeutic effect with respect to the cancer.

A cancer which overexpresses a receptor e.g. an ErbB receptor is one which has significantly higher levels of the receptor such as ErbB2 at the cell surface thereof compared to a noncancerous cell of the same tissue type. Such overexpression may be caused by gene amplification or by increased transcription or translation. Receptor overexpression may be determined in a diagnostic or prognostic assay by evaluating increased levels of the receptor protein present on the surface of a cell e.g. via an immunohistochemistry assay IHC . Alternatively or additionally one may measure levels of receptor encoding nucleic acid in the cell e.g. via fluorescent in situ hybridization FISH see WO 98 45479 southern blotting or polymerase chain reaction PCR techniques such as real time quantitative PCR RT PCR . Overexpression of the receptor ligand may be determined diagnostically by evaluating levels of the ligand or nucleic acid encoding it in the patient e.g. in a tumor biopsy or by various diagnostic assays such as the IHC FISH southern blotting PCR or in vivo assays described above. One may also study receptor overexpression by measuring a shed antigen e.g. ErbB extracellular domain in a biological fluid such as serum see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 933 294 WO 91 05264 U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 638 and Sias et al 1990 J. Immunol. Methods 132 73 80 . Aside from the above assays various other in vivo assays are available to the skilled practitioner. For example one may expose cells within the body of the patient to an antibody which is optionally labeled with a detectable label e.g. a radioactive isotope and binding of the antibody to cells in the patient can be evaluated e.g. by external scanning for radioactivity or by analyzing a biopsy taken from a patient previously exposed to the antibody.

The term cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents the function of cells and or causes destruction of cells. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi P C and radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents and toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin including synthetic analogs and derivatives thereof.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkyating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethyl ethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX and doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifamib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

 Alkyl is C Chydrocarbon containing normal secondary tertiary or cyclic carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl radicals include but not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH .

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W.A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyclo 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked bonded where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

 Linker or link means a chemical moiety comprising a covalent bond or a chain of atoms that covalently attaches an antibody to a drug moiety. In various embodiments of Formula I a linker is specified as L. Linker embodiments include divalent radical defined herein as Y.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. 1994 John Wiley Sons Inc. New York. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of an ADC. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counterion. The counterion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counterion.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable solvate refers to an association of one or more solvent molecules and an ADC. Examples of solvents that form pharmaceutically acceptable solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine.

wherein Y is N Xor O and the divalent linker L is attached at one of X X X X X or X. The linker is also covalently attached to the antibody according to Formula I antibody drug conjugate.

The nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moieties D include all stereoisomers including enantiomers diastereomers atropisomers and racemic mixtures i.e. any combination of R and S configurations at the chiral carbons of D.

one of Z Z Z Z Z or Zcomprises a reactive functional group selected from maleimide thiol amino alkyl bromide alkyl iodide carboxyl and NHS ester.

where Ris H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH.

wherein Z Z Z Z Z and Zcomprise a reactive functional group selected from maleimide thiol amino alkyl bromide alkyl iodide alkyl thiol alkyl hydroxyl alkyl amino hydroxyl carboxyl and NHS ester or protected form of the functional group thereof.

The nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety reagents may be prepared by cyclization of doxorubicin with 2 iodo 1 2 iodoethoxy 1 methoxyethane following the methods in U.S. Pat. No. 5 304 687 and WO 2005 005455. Cyclization of doxorubicin with functionalized versions of 2 iodo 1 2 iodoethoxy 1 methoxyethane allow functionalized nemorubicin analogs 

Bridged oxygen derivatives having the 3 deamino 3 4 anhydro 2 S methoxy 3 R oxy 4 morpholinyl substructure of PNU 159682 may be prepared by reductive alkylation of doxorubicin with functionalized analogs of the dialdehyde 2 2 oxydiacetaldehyde U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 826 964 4 672 057 6 630 579 .

Nemorubicin and other morpholino doxorubicin analogs may also be cyclized to the 3 deamino 3 4 anhydro 2 S methoxy 3 R oxy 4 morpholinyl substructure of PNA 159682 type compounds by forming the N oxide with hydrogen peroxide GB 2296495 and oxidative cyclization with ferrous chloride and an iron complexing agent such as tartaric acid EP 0889898 .

one of X X X X X or Xcomprises a linker and a reactive functional group selected from a maleimide group a thiol group a carboxyl group and an NHS ester.

The linker L attaches the antibody to a drug moiety through covalent bond s . The linker is a bifunctional or multifunctional moiety which can be used to link one or more drug moiety D and an antibody unit Ab to form antibody drug conjugates ADC of Formula I. The linker L may be stable outside a cell i.e. extracellular or it may be cleavable by enzymatic activity hydrolysis or other metabolic conditions. Antibody drug conjugates ADC can be conveniently prepared using a linker having reactive functionality for binding to the drug moiety and to the antibody. A cysteine thiol or an amine e.g. N terminus or amino acid side chain such as lysine of the antibody Ab can form a bond with a functional group of a linker reagent drug moiety D or drug linker reagent D L 

Many positions on nemorubicin metabolite and analog compounds may be useful as the linkage position depending upon the type of linkage. For example ester linkages may be formed from a hydroxyl group on the drug moiety ketal and hydrazone linkages may be formed from a carbonyl group on the drug moiety amide carbamate and urea linkages may be formed from an amino group on the drug moiety and various alkyl ether thioether disulfide and acyl linkages may be formed from the phenyl and aryl rings on the drug moiety by Friedel Crafts type alkylation and acylation reactions.

The linkers are preferably stable extracellularly. Before transport or delivery into a cell the antibody drug conjugate ADC is preferably stable and remains intact i.e. the antibody remains linked to the drug moiety. The linkers are stable outside the target cell and may be cleaved at some efficacious rate inside the cell. An effective linker will i maintain the specific binding properties of the antibody ii allow intracellular delivery of the conjugate or drug moiety iii remain stable and intact i.e. not cleaved until the conjugate has been delivered or transported to its targetted site and iv maintain a cytotoxic cell killing effect or a cytostatic effect of the nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety. Stability of the ADC may be measured by standard analytical techniques such as mass spectroscopy HPLC and the separation analysis technique LC MS.

Covalent attachment of the antibody and the drug moiety requires the linker to have two reactive functional groups i.e. bivalency in a reactive sense. Bivalent linker reagents which are useful to attach two or more functional or biologically active moieties such as peptides nucleic acids drugs toxins antibodies haptens and reporter groups are known and methods have been described their resulting conjugates Hermanson G. T. 1996 Bioconjugate Techniques Academic Press New York p 234 242 .

In another embodiment the linker may be substituted with groups which modulate solubility or reactivity. For example a sulfonate substituent may increase water solubility of the reagent and facilitate the coupling reaction of the linker reagent with the antibody or the drug moiety or facilitate the coupling reaction of Ab L with D or D L with Ab depending on the synthetic route employed to prepare the ADC.

Nucleophilic groups on antibodies include but are not limited to i N terminal amine groups ii side chain amine groups e.g. lysine iii side chain thiol groups e.g. cysteine and iv sugar hydroxyl or amino groups where the antibody is glycosylated. Amine thiol and hydroxyl groups are nucleophilic and capable of reacting to form covalent bonds with electrophilic groups on linker moieties and linker reagents including i active esters such as NHS esters HOBt esters haloformates and acid halides ii alkyl and benzyl halides such as haloacetamides iii aldehydes ketones carboxyl and maleimide groups. Certain antibodies have reducible interchain disulfides i.e. cysteine bridges. Antibodies may be made reactive for conjugation with linker reagents by treatment with a reducing agent such as DTT dithiothreitol . Each cysteine bridge will thus form theoretically two reactive thiol nucleophiles. Additional nucleophilic groups can be introduced into antibodies through the reaction of lysines with 2 iminothiolane Traut s reagent resulting in conversion of an amine into a thiol. Reactive thiol groups may be introduced into the antibody or fragment thereof by introducing one two three four or more cysteine residues e.g. preparing mutant antibodies comprising one or more non native cysteine amino acid residues . US 2007 0092940 teaches engineering antibodies by introduction of reactive cysteine amino acids.

In some embodiments a Linker has a reactive nucleophilic group which is reactive with an electrophilic group present on an antibody. Useful electrophilic groups on an antibody include but are not limited to aldehyde and ketone carbonyl groups. The heteroatom of a nucleophilic group of a Linker can react with an electrophilic group on an antibody and form a covalent bond to an antibody unit. Useful nucleophilic groups on a Linker include but are not limited to hydrazide oxime amino hydroxyl hydrazine thiosemicarbazone hydrazine carboxylate and arylhydrazide. The electrophilic group on an antibody provides a convenient site for attachment to a Linker.

Nucleophilic groups on a drug moiety include but are not limited to amine thiol hydroxyl hydrazide oxime hydrazine thiosemicarbazone hydrazine carboxylate and arylhydrazide groups capable of reacting to form covalent bonds with electrophilic groups on linker moieties and linker reagents including i active esters such as NHS esters HOBt esters haloformates and acid halides ii alkyl and benzyl halides such as haloacetamides iii aldehydes ketones carboxyl and maleimide groups.

Linkers can be peptidic comprising one or more amino acid units. Peptide linker reagents may be prepared by solid phase or liquid phase synthesis methods E. Schr der and K. L bke volume 1 pp 76 136 1965 Academic Press that are well known in the field of peptide chemistry including t BOC chemistry Geiser et al Automation of solid phase peptide synthesis in Alan R. Liss Inc. 1988 pp. 199 218 and Fmoc HBTU chemistry Fields G. and Noble R. 1990 Solid phase peptide synthesis utilizing 9 fluoroenylmethoxycarbonyl amino acids Int. J. Peptide Protein Res. 35 161 214 on an automated synthesizer such as the Rainin Symphony Peptide Synthesizer Protein Technologies Inc. Tucson Ariz. or Model 433 Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. .

Exemplary amino acid linkers include a dipeptide a tripeptide a tetrapeptide or a pentapeptide. Exemplary dipeptides include valine citrulline vc or val cit alanine phenylalanine af or ala phe . Exemplary tripeptides include glycine valine citrulline gly val cit and glycine glycine glycine gly gly gly . Amino acid residues which comprise an amino acid linker component include those occurring naturally as well as minor amino acids and non naturally occurring amino acid analogs such as citrulline. Amino acid linker components can be designed and optimized in their selectivity for enzymatic cleavage by a particular enzymes for example a tumor associated protease cathepsin B C and D or a plasmin protease.

Amino acid side chains include those occurring naturally as well as minor amino acids and non naturally occurring amino acid analogs such as citrulline. Amino acid side chains include hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl as well as the following structures 

When the amino acid side chains include is other than hydrogen glycine the carbon atom to which the amino acid side chain is attached is chiral. Each carbon atom to which the amino acid side chain is attached is independently in the S or R configuration or a racemic mixture. Drug linker reagents may thus be enantiomerically pure racemic or diastereomeric.

In exemplary embodiments amino acid side chains are selected from those of natural and non natural amino acids including alanine 2 amino 2 cyclohexylacetic acid 2 amino 2 phenylacetic acid arginine asparagine aspartic acid cysteine glutamine glutamic acid glycine histidine isoleucine leucine lysine methionine norleucine phenylalanine proline serine threonine tryptophan tyrosine valine aminobutyric acid dimethyl aminobutyric acid dimethyl aminobutyric acid ornithine and citrulline Cit .

Rand Rare independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the following structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH and

Rand Rare independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH and

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

Rand Rare independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

Ris independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

Beta glucuronide linkers between the antibody and the drug moiety by are substrates for cleavage by beta glucuronidase Jeffrey et al 2006 Bioconjugate Chem. 17 831 840 WO 2007 011968 . The acetal linkage of beta glucuronide releases a phenolic hydroxyl on the aryl ring potentiating self immolation and 1 6 elimination of the benzyloxycarbonyl group.

An exemplary valine citrulline val cit or vc dipeptide linker reagent having a maleimide stretcher and a para aminobenzylcarbamoyl PAB self immolative spacer has the structure 

An exemplary phe lys Mtr dipeptide linker reagent having a maleimide stretcher unit and a p aminobenzyl self immolative Spacer unit can be prepared according to Dubowchik et al. 1997 Tetrahedron Letters 38 5257 60 and has the structure 

where Mtr is mono 4 methoxytrityl Q is C Calkyl O C Calkyl halogen NOor CN and m is an integer ranging from 0 4.

The self immolative linker PABC or PAB para aminobenzyloxycarbonyl attaches the drug moiety to the antibody in the conjugate Carl et al 1981 J. Med. Chem. 24 479 480 Chakravarty et al 1983 J. Med. Chem. 26 638 644 U.S. Pat. No. 6 214 345 US20030130189 US20030096743 U.S. Pat. No. 6 759 509 US20040052793 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 218 519 6 835 807 6 268 488 US20040018194 WO98 13059 US20040052793 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 677 435 5 621 002 US20040121940 WO2004 032828 . Other examples of self immolative spacers besides PAB include but are not limited to i aromatic compounds that are electronically similar to the PAB group such as 2 aminoimidazol 5 methanol derivatives Hay et al. 1999 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 9 2237 thiazoles US 2005 0256030 multiple elongated PAB units de Groot et al 2001 J. Org. Chem. 66 8815 8830 and ortho or para aminobenzylacetals and ii homologated styryl PAB analogs U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 837 . Spacers can be used that undergo cyclization upon amide bond hydrolysis such as substituted and unsubstituted 4 aminobutyric acid amides Rodrigues et al 1995 Chemistry Biology 2 223 appropriately substituted bicyclo 2.2.1 and bicyclo 2.2.2 ring systems Storm et al 1972 J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 94 5815 and 2 aminophenylpropionic acid amides Amsberry et al 1990 J. Org. Chem. 55 5867 . Elimination of amine containing drugs that are substituted at glycine Kingsbury et al 1984 J. Med. Chem. 27 1447 are also examples of self immolative spacers useful in ADC.

Linker reagents useful for the antibody drug conjugates of the invention include but are not limited to BMPEO BMPS EMCS GMBS HBVS LC SMCC MBS MPBH SBAP SIA SIAB SMCC SMPB SMPH sulfo EMCS sulfo GMBS sulfo KMUS sulfo MBS sulfo SIAB sulfo SMCC and sulfo SMPB and SVSB succinimidyl 4 vinylsulfone benzoate and including bis maleimide reagents DTME BMB BMDB BMH BMOE 1 8 bis maleimidodiethyleneglycol BM PEO and 1 11 bis maleimidotriethyleneglycol BM PEO which are commercially available from Pierce Biotechnology Inc. ThermoScientific Rockford Ill. and other reagent suppliers. Bis maleimide reagents allow the attachment of a free thiol group of a cysteine residue of an antibody to a thiol containing drug moiety label or linker intermediate in a sequential or concurrent fashion. Other functional groups besides maleimide which are reactive with a thiol group of an antibody nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety or linker intermediate include iodoacetamide bromoacetamide vinyl pyridine disulfide pyridyl disulfide isocyanate and isothiocyanate.

Other linker reagents are N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridylthio pentanoate SPP N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP Carlsson et al 1978 Biochem. J. 173 723 737 succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC iminothiolane IT bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate aldehydes such as glutaraldehyde bis azido compounds such as bis p azidobenzoyl hexanediamine bis diazonium derivatives such as bis p diazoniumbenzoyl ethylenediamine diisocyanates such as toluene 2 6 diisocyanate and bis active fluorine compounds such as 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene . Useful linker reagents can also be obtained via other commercial sources such as Molecular Biosciences Inc. Boulder Colo. or synthesized in accordance with procedures described in Toki et al 2002 J. Org. Chem. 67 1866 1872 U.S. Pat. No. 6 214 345 WO 02 088172 US 2003130189 US2003096743 WO 03 026577 WO 03 043583 and WO 04 032828.

The Linker may be a dendritic type linker for covalent attachment of more than one drug moiety through a branching multifunctional linker moiety to an antibody US 2006 116422 US 2005 271615 de Groot et al 2003 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42 4490 4494 Amir et al 2003 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42 4494 4499 Shamis et al 2004 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 126 1726 1731 Sun et al 2002 Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 12 2213 2215 Sun et al 2003 Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry 11 1761 1768 King et al 2002 Tetrahedron Letters 43 1987 1990 . Dendritic linkers can increase the molar ratio of drug to antibody i.e. loading which is related to the potency of the ADC. Thus where an antibody bears only one reactive cysteine thiol group a multitude of drug moieties may be attached through a dendritic or branched linker.

The antibody unit Ab of Formula I includes any unit type or class of antibody that binds or reactively associates or complexes with a receptor antigen or other receptive moiety associated with a given target cell population. An antibody can be any protein or protein like molecule that binds to complexes with or reacts with a moiety of a cell population sought to be therapeutically or otherwise biologically modified. In one aspect the antibody unit acts to deliver the nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety to the particular target cell population with which the antibody unit reacts. Such antibodies include but are not limited to large molecular weight proteins such as full length antibodies and antibody fragments. The antibodies of Formula I allow attaining high concentrations of active metabolite molecules in cancer cells. Intracellular targeting may be achieved by methods and compounds which allow accumulation or retention of biologically active agents inside cells. Such effective targeting may be applicable to a variety of therapeutic formulations and procedures.

In one embodiment the ADC specifically binds to a receptor encoded by an ErbB gene such as EGFR HER2 HER3 and HER4. The ADC may specifically bind to the extracellular domain of the HER2 receptor. The ADC may inhibit growth of tumor cells which overexpress HER2 receptor.

In another embodiment the antibody Ab of Formula I is a humanized antibody such as huMAb4D5 1 huMAb4D5 2 huMAb4D5 3 huMAb4D5 4 huMAb4D5 5 huMAb4D5 6 huMAb4D5 7 or huMAb4D5 8 trastuzumab .

The antibodies of the invention include cysteine engineered antibodies where one or more amino acids of any form of wild type or parent antibody is replaced with a cysteine amino acid. The engineered cysteine amino acid is a free cysteine acid and not part of an intrachain or interchain disulfide unit. Any form type or variant of antibody may be so engineered i.e. mutated. For example a parent Fab antibody fragment may be engineered to form a cysteine engineered Fab referred to herein as ThioFab. Similarly a parent monoclonal antibody may be engineered to form a ThioMab. It should be noted that a single site mutation yields a single engineered cysteine residue in a ThioFab while a single site mutation yields two engineered cysteine residues in a ThioMab due to the dimeric nature of the IgG antibody. The cysteine engineered antibodies of the invention include monoclonal antibodies humanized or chimeric monoclonal antibodies antigen binding fragments of antibodies fusion polypeptides and analogs that preferentially bind cell associated polypeptides.

Cysteine engineered antibodies have been designed as Fab antibody fragments thioFab and expressed as full length IgG monoclonal thioMab antibodies US 2007 0092940 the contents of which are incorporated by reference . ThioFab and ThioMab antibodies have been conjugated through linkers at the newly introduced cysteine thiols with thiol reactive linker reagents and drug linker reagents to prepare antibody drug conjugates Thio ADC .

Antibodies comprising the antibody drug conjugates of the invention preferably retain the antigen binding capability of their native wild type counterparts. Thus antibodies of the invention are capable of binding preferably specifically to antigens. Such antigens include for example tumor associated antigens TAA cell surface receptor proteins and other cell surface molecules cell survival regulatory factors cell proliferation regulatory factors molecules associated with for e.g. known or suspected to contribute functionally to tissue development or differentiation lymphokines cytokines molecules involved in cell cycle regulation molecules involved in vasculogenesis and molecules associated with for e.g. known or suspected to contribute functionally to angiogenesis. The tumor associated antigen may be a cluster differentiation factor i.e. a CD protein . An antigen to which an antibody of the invention is capable of binding may be a member of a subset of one of the above mentioned categories wherein the other subset s of said category comprise other molecules antigens that have a distinct characteristic with respect to the antigen of interest .

In one embodiment the antibody of the antibody drug conjugates ADC specifically binds to a receptor encoded by an ErbB gene. The antibody may bind specifically to an ErbB receptor selected from EGFR HER2 HER3 and HER4. The ADC may specifically bind to the extracellular domain ECD of the HER2 receptor and inhibit the growth of tumor cells which overexpress HER2 receptor. The antibody of the ADC may be a monoclonal antibody e.g. a murine monoclonal antibody a chimeric antibody or a humanized antibody. A humanized antibody may be huMAb4D5 1 huMAb4D5 2 huMAb4D5 3 huMAb4D5 4 huMAb4D5 5 huMAb4D5 6 huMAb4D5 7 or huMAb4D5 8 trastuzumab . The antibody may be an antibody fragment e.g. a Fab fragment.

Antibodies in Formula I antibody drug conjugates ADC and which may be useful in the treatment of cancer include but are not limited to antibodies against cell surface receptors and tumor associated antigens TAA . Such tumor associated antigens are known in the art and can prepared for use in generating antibodies using methods and information which are well known in the art. In attempts to discover effective cellular targets for cancer diagnosis and therapy researchers have sought to identify transmembrane or otherwise tumor associated polypeptides that are specifically expressed on the surface of one or more particular type s of cancer cell as compared to on one or more normal non cancerous cell s . Often such tumor associated polypeptides are more abundantly expressed on the surface of the cancer cells as compared to on the surface of the non cancerous cells. The identification of such tumor associated cell surface antigen polypeptides has given rise to the ability to specifically target cancer cells for destruction via antibody based therapies.

Examples of TAA include but are not limited to Tumor Associated Antigens 1 36 listed below. For convenience information relating to these antigens all of which are known in the art is listed below and includes names alternative names Genbank accession numbers and primary reference s following nucleic acid and protein sequence identification conventions of the National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI . Nucleic acid and protein sequences corresponding to TAA 1 36 are available in public databases such as GenBank. Tumor associated antigens targeted by antibodies include all amino acid sequence variants and isoforms possessing at least about 70 80 85 90 or 95 sequence identity relative to the sequences identified in the cited references or which exhibit substantially the same biological properties or characteristics as a TAA having a sequence found in the cited references. For example a TAA having a variant sequence generally is able to bind specifically to an antibody that binds specifically to the TAA with the corresponding sequence listed. The sequences and disclosure in the reference specifically recited herein are expressly incorporated by reference.

 1 BMPR1B bone morphogenetic protein receptor type IB Genbank accession no. NM 001203 ten Dijke P. et al Science 264 5155 101 104 1994 Oncogene 14 11 1377 1382 1997 WO2004063362 Claim 2 WO2003042661 Claim 12 US2003134790 A1 Page 38 39 WO2002102235 Claim 13 Page 296 WO2003055443 Page 91 92 WO200299122 Example 2 Page 528 530 WO2003029421 Claim 6 WO2003024392 Claim 2 FIG. 112 WO200298358 Claim 1 Page 183 WO200254940 Page 100 101 WO200259377 Page 349 350 WO200230268 Claim 27 Page 376 WO200148204 Example FIG. 4 NP 001194 bone morphogenetic protein receptor type IB pid NP 001194.1 Cross references MIM 603248 NP 001194.1 AY065994

 2 E16 LAT1 SLC7A5 Genbank accession no. NM 003486 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 255 2 283 288 1999 Nature 395 6699 288 291 1998 Gaugitsch H. W. et al 1992 J. Biol. Chem. 267 16 11267 11273 WO2004048938 Example 2 WO2004032842 Example IV WO2003042661 Claim 12 WO2003016475 Claim 1 WO200278524 Example 2 WO200299074 Claim 19 Page 127 129 WO200286443 Claim 27 Pages 222 393 WO2003003906 Claim 10 Page 293 WO200264798 Claim 33 Page 93 95 WO200014228 Claim 5 Page 133 136 US2003224454 FIG. 3 WO2003025138 Claim 12 Page 150 US 20050107595 US 20050106644 NP 003477 solute carrier family 7 cationic amino acid transporter y system member 5 pid NP 003477.3 Cross references MIM 600182 NP 003477.3 NM 015923 NM 003486 1

 3 STEAP1 six transmembrane epithelial antigen of prostate Genbank accession no. NM 012449 Cancer Res. 61 15 5857 5860 2001 Hubert R. S. et al 1999 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 96 25 14523 14528 WO2004065577 Claim 6 WO2004027049 FIG. 1L EP1394274 Example 11 WO2004016225 Claim 2 WO2003042661 Claim 12 US2003157089 Example 5 US2003185830 Example 5 US2003064397 FIG. 2 WO200289747 Example 5 Page 618 619 WO2003022995 Example 9 FIG. 13A Example 53 Page 173 Example 2 FIG. 2A NP 036581 six transmembrane epithelial antigen of the prostate Cross references MIM 604415 NP 036581.1 NM 012449 1

 4 0772P CA125 MUC16 Genbank accession no. AF361486 J. Biol. Chem. 276 29 27371 27375 2001 WO2004045553 Claim 14 WO200292836 Claim 6 FIG. 12 WO200283866 Claim 15 Page 116 121 US2003124140 Example 16 US2003091580 Claim 6 WO200206317 Claim 6 Page 400 408 Cross references GI 34501467 AAK74120.3 AF361486 1

 5 MPF MPF MSLN SMR megakaryocyte potentiating factor mesothelin Genbank accession no. NM 005823 Yamaguchi N. et al Biol. Chem. 269 2 805 808 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 96 20 11531 11536 1999 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93 1 136 140 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 270 37 21984 21990 1995 WO2003101283 Claim 14 WO2002102235 Claim 13 Page 287 288 WO2002101075 Claim 4 Page 308 309 WO200271928 Page 320 321 WO9410312 Page 52 57 Cross references MIM 601051 NP 005814.2 NM 005823 1

 6 Napi3b NAPI 3B NPTIIb SLC34A2 solute carrier family 34 sodium phosphate member 2 type II sodium dependent phosphate transporter 3b Genbank accession no. NM 006424 J. Biol. Chem. 277 22 19665 19672 2002 Genomics 62 2 281 284 1999 Feild J. A. et al 1999 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 258 3 578 582 WO2004022778 Claim 2 EP1394274 Example 11 WO2002102235 Claim 13 Page 326 EP875569 Claim 1 Page 17 19 WO200157188 Claim 20 Page 329 WO2004032842 Example IV WO200175177 Claim 24 Page 139 140 Cross references MIM 604217 NP 006415.1 NM 006424 1

 7 Sema 5b FLJ10372 KIAA1445 Mm.42015 SEMA5B SEMAG Semaphorin 5b Hlog sema domain seven thrombospondin repeats type 1 and type 1 like transmembrane domain TM and short cytoplasmic domain semaphorin 5B Genbank accession no. AB040878 Nagase T. et al 2000 DNA Res. 7 2 143 150 WO2004000997 Claim 1 WO2003003984 Claim 1 WO200206339 Claim 1 Page 50 WO200188133 Claim 1 Page 41 43 48 58 WO2003054152 Claim 20 WO2003101400 Claim 11 Accession 9P283 EMBL AB040878 BAA95969.1. Genew HGNC 10737 

 8 PSCA hlg 2700050C12R1k C530008O16R1k RIKEN cDNA 2700050C12 RIKEN cDNA 2700050C12 gene Genbank accession no. AY Ross et al 2002 Cancer Res. 62 2546 2553 US2003129192 Claim 2 US2004044180 Claim 12 US2004044179 Claim 11 US2003096961 Claim 11 US2003232056 Example 5 WO2003105758 Claim 12 US2003206918 Example 5 EP1347046 Claim 1 WO2003025148 Claim 20 Cross references GI 37182378 AAQ88991.1 AY358628 1

 9 ETBR Endothelin type B receptor Genbank accession no. AY275463 Nakamuta M. et al Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 177 34 39 1991 Ogawa Y. et al Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 178 248 255 1991 Arai H. et al Jpn. Circ. J. 56 1303 1307 1992 Arai H. et al J. Biol. Chem. 268 3463 3470 1993 Sakamoto A. Yanagisawa M. et al Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 178 656 663 1991 Elshourbagy N. A. et al J. Biol. Chem. 268 3873 3879 1993 Haendler B. et al J. Cardiovasc. Pharmacol. 20 s1 S4 1992 Tsutsumi M. et al Gene 228 43 49 1999 Strausberg R. L. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 99 16899 16903 2002 Bourgeois C. et al J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 82 3116 3123 1997 Okamoto Y. et al Biol. Chem. 272 21589 21596 1997 Verheij J. B. et al Am. J. Med. Genet. 108 223 225 2002 Hofstra R. M. W. et al Eur. J. Hum. Genet. 5 180 185 1997 Puffenberger E. G. et al Cell 79 1257 1266 1994 Attie T. et al Hum. Mol. Genet. 4 2407 2409 1995 Auricchio A. et al Hum. Mol. Genet. 5 351 354 1996 Amiel J. et al Hum. Mol. Genet. 5 355 357 1996 Hofstra R. M. W. et al Nat. Genet. 12 445 447 1996 Svensson P. J. et al Hum. Genet. 103 145 148 1998 Fuchs S. et al Mol. Med. 7 115 124 2001 Pingault V. et al 2002 Hum. Genet. 111 198 206 WO2004045516 Claim 1 WO2004048938 Example 2 WO2004040000 Claim 151 WO2003087768 Claim 1 WO2003016475 Claim 1 WO2003016475 Claim 1 WO200261087 FIG. 1 WO2003016494 FIG. 6 WO2003025138 Claim 12 Page 144 WO200198351 Claim 1 Page 124 125 EP522868 Claim 8 FIG. 2 WO200177172 Claim 1 Page 297 299 US2003109676 U.S. Pat. No. 6 518 404 FIG. 3 U.S. Pat. No. 5 773 223 Claim 1a Col 31 34 WO2004001004.

 10 MSG783 RNF124 hypothetical protein FLJ20315 Genbank accession no. NM 017763 WO2003104275 Claim 1 WO2004046342 Example 2 WO2003042661 Claim 12 WO2003083074 Claim 14 Page 61 WO2003018621 Claim 1 WO2003024392 Claim 2 FIG. 93 WO200166689 Example 6 Cross references LocusID 54894 NP 060233.2 NM 017763 1

 11 STEAP2 HGNC 8639 IPCA 1 PCANAP1 STAMP 1 STEAP2 STMP prostate cancer associated gene 1 prostate cancer associated protein 1 six transmembrane epithelial antigen of prostate 2 six transmembrane prostate protein Genbank accession no. AF455138 Lab. Invest. 82 11 1573 1582 2002 WO2003087306 US2003064397 Claim 1 FIG. 1 WO200272596 Claim 13 Page 54 55 WO200172962 Claim 1 FIG. 4B WO2003104270 Claim 11 WO2003104270 Claim 16 US2004005598 Claim 22 WO2003042661 Claim 12 US2003060612 Claim 12 FIG. 10 WO200226822 Claim 23 FIG. 2 WO200216429 Claim 12 FIG. 10 Cross references GI 22655488 AAN04080.1 AF455138 1

 12 TrpM4 BR22450 FLJ20041 TRPM4 TRPM4B transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 Genbank accession no. NM 017636 Xu X. Z. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98 19 10692 10697 2001 Cell 109 3 397 407 2002 J. Biol. Chem. 278 33 30813 30820 2003 US2003143557 Claim 4 WO200040614 Claim 14 Page 100 103 WO200210382 Claim 1 FIG. 9A WO2003042661 Claim 12 WO200230268 Claim 27 Page 391 US2003219806 Claim 4 WO200162794 Claim 14 FIG. 1A D Cross references MIM 606936 NP 060106.2 NM 017636 1

 13 CRIPTO CR CR1 CRGF CRIPTO TDGF1 teratocarcinoma derived growth factor Genbank accession no. NP 003203 or NM 003212 Ciccodicola A. et al EMBO J. 8 7 1987 1991 1989 Am. J. Hum. Genet. 49 3 555 565 1991 US2003224411 Claim 1 WO2003083041 Example 1 WO2003034984 Claim 12 WO200288170 Claim 2 Page 52 53 WO2003024392 Claim 2 FIG. 58 WO200216413 Claim 1 Page 94 95 105 WO200222808 Claim 2 FIG. 1 U.S. Pat. No. 5 854 399 Example 2 Col 17 18 U.S. Pat. No. 5 792 616 FIG. 2 Cross references MIM 187395 NP 003203.1 NM 003212 1

 14 CD21 CR2 Complement receptor 2 or C3DR C3d Epstein Barr virus receptor or Hs.73792 Genbank accession no. M26004 Fujisaku et al 1989 J. Biol. Chem. 264 4 2118 2125 Weis J. J. et al J. Exp. Med. 167 1047 1066 1988 Moore M. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84 9194 9198 1987 Barel M. et al Mol. Immunol. 35 1025 1031 1998 Weis J. J. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 83 5639 5643 1986 Sinha S. K. et al 1993 J. Immunol. 150 5311 5320 WO2004045520 Example 4 US2004005538 Example 1 WO2003062401 Claim 9 WO2004045520 Example 4 WO9102536 FIG. 9.1 9.9 WO2004020595 Claim 1 Accession P20023 Q13866 Q14212 EMBL M26004 AAA35786.1.

 15 CD79b CD79B CD79 IGb immunoglobulin associated beta B29 Genbank accession no. NM 000626 or 11038674 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2003 100 7 4126 4131 Blood 2002 100 9 3068 3076 Muller et al 1992 Eur. J. Immunol. 22 6 1621 1625 WO2004016225 claim 2 FIG. 140 WO2003087768 US2004101874 claim 1 page 102 WO2003062401 claim 9 WO200278524 Example 2 US2002150573 claim 5 page 15 U.S. Pat. No. 5 644 033 WO2003048202 claim 1 pages 306 and 309 WO 99 558658 U.S. Pat. No. 6 534 482 claim 13 FIG. 17A B WO200055351 claim 11 pages 1145 1146 Cross references MIM 147245 NP 000617.1 NM 000626 1

 16 FcRH2 IFGP4 IRTA4 SPAPlA SH2 domain containing phosphatase anchor protein 1a SPAPIB SPAPIC Genbank accession no. NM 030764 AY358130 Genome Res. 13 10 2265 2270 2003 Immunogenetics 54 2 87 95 2002 Blood 99 8 2662 2669 2002 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98 17 9772 9777 2001 Xu M. J. et al 2001 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 280 3 768 775 WO2004016225 Claim 2 WO2003077836 WO200138490 Claim 5 FIG. 18D 1 18D 2 WO2003097803 Claim 12 WO2003089624 Claim 25 Cross references MIM 606509 NP 110391.2 NM 030764 1

 17 HER2 ErbB2 Genbank accession no. M11730 Coussens L. et al Science 1985 230 4730 1132 1139 Yamamoto T. et al Nature 319 230 234 1986 Semba K. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 82 6497 6501 1985 Swiercz J. M. et al J. Cell Biol. 165 869 880 2004 Kuhns J. J. et al J. Biol. Chem. 274 36422 36427 1999 Cho H. S. et al Nature 421 756 760 2003 Ehsani A. et al 1993 Genomics 15 426 429 WO2004048938 Example 2 WO2004027049 FIG. 1I WO2004009622 WO2003081210 WO2003089904 Claim 9 WO2003016475 Claim 1 US2003118592 WO2003008537 Claim 1 WO2003055439 Claim 29 FIG. 1A B WO2003025228 Claim 37 FIG. 5C WO200222636 Example 13 Page 95 107 WO200212341 Claim 68 FIG. 7 WO200213847 Page 71 74 WO200214503 Page 114 117 WO200153463 Claim 2 Page 41 46 WO200141787 Page 15 WO200044899 Claim 52 FIG. 7 WO200020579 Claim 3 FIG. 2 U.S. Pat. No. 5 869 445 Claim 3 Col 31 38 WO9630514 Claim 2 Page 56 61 EP1439393 Claim 7 WO2004043361 Claim 7 WO2004022709 WO200100244 Example 3 FIG. 4 Accession P04626 EMBL M11767 AAA35808.1. EMBL M11761 AAA35808.1.

 18 NCA CEACAM6 Genbank accession no. M18728 Barnett T. et al Genomics 3 59 66 1988 Tawaragi Y. et al Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 150 89 96 1988 Strausberg R. L. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 99 16899 16903 2002 WO2004063709 EP1439393 Claim 7 WO2004044178 Example 4 WO2004031238 WO2003042661 Claim 12 WO200278524 Example 2 WO200286443 Claim 27 Page 427 WO200260317 Claim 2 Accession P40199 Q14920 EMBL M29541 AAA59915.1. EMBL M18728

 19 MDP DPEP1 Genbank accession no. BC017023 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 99 26 16899 16903 2002 WO2003016475 Claim 1 WO200264798 Claim 33 Page 85 87 JP05003790 FIG. 6 8 WO9946284 FIG. 9 Cross references MIM 179780 AAH17023.1 BC017023 1

 20 IL20R IL20Ra ZCYTOR7 Genbank accession no. AF184971 Clark H. F. et al Genome Res. 13 2265 2270 2003 Mungall A. J. et al Nature 425 805 811 2003 Blumberg H. et al Cell 104 9 19 2001 Dumoutier L. et al J. Immunol. 167 3545 3549 2001 Parrish Novak J. et al J. Biol. Chem. 277 47517 47523 2002 Pletnev S. et al 2003 Biochemistry 42 12617 12624 Sheikh F. et al 2004 J. Immunol. 172 2006 2010 EP1394274 Example 11 US2004005320 Example 5 WO2003029262 Page 74 75 WO2003002717 Claim 2 Page 63 WO200222153 Page 45 47 US2002042366 Page 20 21 WO200146261 Page 57 59 WO200146232 Page 63 65 WO9837193 Claim 1 Page 55 59 Accession Q9UHF4 Q6UWA9 Q96SH8 EMBL AF184971 AAF01320.1.

 21 Brevican BCAN BEHAB Genbank accession no. AF229053 Gary S. C. et al Gene 256 139 147 2000 Clark H. F. et al Genome Res. 13 2265 2270 2003 Strausberg R. L. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 99 16899 16903 2002 US2003186372 Claim 11 US2003186373 Claim 11 US2003119131 Claim 1 FIG. 52 US2003119122 Claim 1 FIG. 52 US2003119126 Claim 1 US2003119121 Claim 1 FIG. 52 US2003119129 Claim 1 US2003119130 Claim 1 US2003119128 Claim 1 FIG. 52 US2003119125 Claim 1 WO2003016475 Claim 1 WO200202634 Claim 1 

 22 EphB2R DRT ERK HekS EPHT3 Tyro5 Genbank accession no. NM 004442 Chan J. and Watt V. M. Oncogene 6 6 1057 1061 1991 Oncogene 10 5 897 905 1995 Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 21 309 345 1998 Int. Rev. Cytol. 196 177 244 2000 WO2003042661 Claim 12 WO200053216 Claim 1 Page 41 WO2004065576 Claim 1 WO2004020583 Claim 9 WO2003004529 Page 128 132 WO200053216 Claim 1 Page 42 Cross references MIM 600997 NP 004433.2 NM 004442 1

 23 ASLG659 B7h Genbank accession no. AX092328 US20040101899 Claim 2 WO2003104399 Claim 11 WO2004000221 FIG. 3 US2003165504 Claim 1 US2003124140 Example 2 US2003065143 FIG. 60 WO2002102235 Claim 13 Page 299 US2003091580 Example 2 WO200210187 Claim 6 FIG. 10 WO200194641 Claim 12 FIG. 7b WO200202624 Claim 13 FIG. 1A 1B US2002034749 Claim 54 Page 45 46 WO200206317 Example 2 Page 320 321 Claim 34 Page 321 322 WO200271928 Page 468 469 WO200202587 Example 1 FIG. 1 WO200140269 Example 3 Pages 190 192 WO200036107 Example 2 Page 205 207 WO2004053079 Claim 12 WO2003004989 Claim 1 WO200271928 Page 233 234 452 453 WO 0116318 

 24 PSCA Prostate stem cell antigen precursor Genbank accession no. AJ297436 Reiter R. E. et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 95 1735 1740 1998 Gu Z. et al Oncogene 19 1288 1296 2000 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 2000 275 3 783 788 WO2004022709 EP1394274 Example 11 US2004018553 Claim 17 WO2003008537 Claim 1 WO200281646 Claim 1 Page 164 WO2003003906 Claim 10 Page 288 WO200140309 Example 1 FIG. 17 US2001055751 Example 1 FIG. 1b WO200032752 Claim 18 FIG. 1 WO9851805 Claim 17 Page 97 WO9851824 Claim 10 Page 94 WO9840403 Claim 2 FIG. 1B Accession 043653 EMBL AF043498 AAC39607.1.

 25 GEDA Genbank accession No. AY260763 AAP14954 lipoma HMGIC fusion partner like protein pid AAP14954.1 human WO2003054152 Claim 20 WO2003000842 Claim 1 WO2003023013 Example 3 Claim 20 US2003194704 Claim 45 Cross references GI 30102449 AAP14954.1 AY260763 1

 26 BAFF R B cell activating factor receptor BLyS receptor 3 BR3 Genbank accession No. AF116456 BAFF receptor pid NP 443177.1 Thompson J. S. et al Science 293 5537 2108 2111 2001 WO2004058309 WO2004011611 WO2003045422 Example Page 32 33 WO2003014294 Claim 35 FIG. 6B WO2003035846 Claim 70 Page 615 616 WO200294852 Col 136 137 WO200238766 Claim 3 Page 133 WO200224909 Example 3 FIG. 3 Cross references MIM 606269 NP 443177.1 NM 052945 1 AF132600

 27 CD22 B cell receptor CD22 isoform BL CAM Lyb 8 Lyb8 SIGLEC 2 FLJ22814 Genbank accession No. AK026467 Wilson et al 1991 J. Exp. Med. 173 137 146 WO2003072036 Claim 1 FIG. 1 Cross references MIM 107266 NP 001762.1 NM 001771 1

 28 CD79a CD79A CD79a immunoglobulin associated alpha a B cell specific protein that covalently interacts with Ig beta CD79B and forms a complex on the surface with Ig M molecules transduces a signal involved in B cell differentiation 226 aa pI 4.84 MW 25028 TM 2 P Gene Chromosome 19q13.2 Genbank accession No. NP 001774.10 WO2003088808 US20030228319 WO2003062401 claim 9 US2002150573 claim 4 pages 13 14 WO9958658 claim 13 FIG. 16 WO9207574 FIG. 1 U.S. Pat. No. 5 644 033 Ha et al 1992 J. Immunol. 148 5 1526 1531 Mueller et al 1992 Eur. J. Biochem. 22 1621 1625 Hashimoto et al 1994 Immunogenetics 40 4 287 295 Preud homme et al 1992 Clin. Exp. Immunol. 90 1 141 146 Yu et al 1992 J. Immunol. 148 2 633 637 Sakaguchi et al 1988 EMBO J. 7 11 3457 3464

 29 CXCR5 Burkitt s lymphoma receptor 1 a G protein coupled receptor that is activated by the CXCL13 chemokine functions in lymphocyte migration and humoral defense plays a role in HIV 2 infection and perhaps development of AIDS lymphoma myeloma and leukemia 372 aa pI 8.54 MW 41959 TM 7 P Gene Chromosome 11q23.3 Genbank accession No. NP 001707.1 WO2004040000 WO2004015426 US2003105292 Example 2 U.S. Pat. No. 6 555 339 Example 2 WO200261087 FIG. 1 WO200157188 Claim 20 page 269 WO200172830 pages 12 13 WO200022129 Example 1 pages 152 153 Example 2 pages 254 256 WO9928468 claim 1 page 38 U.S. Pat. No. 5 440 021 Example 2 col 49 52 WO9428931 pages 56 58 WO9217497 claim 7 FIG. 5 Dobner et al 1992 Eur. J. Immunol. 22 2795 2799 Barella et al 1995 Biochem. J. 309 773 779

 30 HLA DOB Beta subunit of MHC class II molecule Ia antigen that binds peptides and presents them to CD4 T lymphocytes 273 aa pI 6.56 MW 30820 TM 1 P Gene Chromosome 6p21.3 Genbank accession No. NP 002111.1 Tonnelle et al 1985 EMBO J. 4 11 2839 2847 Jonsson et al 1989 Immunogenetics 29 6 411 413 Beck et al 1992 J. Mol. Biol. 228 433 441 Strausberg et al 2002 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 16899 16903 Servenius et al 1987 J. Biol. Chem. 262 8759 8766 Beck et al 1996 J. Mol. Biol. 255 1 13 Naruse et al 2002 Tissue Antigens 59 512 519 WO9958658 claim 13 FIG. 15 U.S. Pat. No. 6 153 408 Col 35 38 U.S. Pat. No. 5 976 551 col 168 170 U.S. Pat. No. 6 011 146 col 145 146 Kasahara et al 1989 Immunogenetics 30 1 66 68 Larhammar et al 1985 J. Biol. Chem. 260 26 14111 14119

 31 P2X5 Purinergic receptor P2X ligand gated ion channel 5 an ion channel gated by extracellular ATP may be involved in synaptic transmission and neurogenesis deficiency may contribute to the pathophysiology of idiopathic detrusor instability 422 aa pI 7.63 MW 47206 TM 1 P Gene Chromosome 17p13.3 Genbank accession No. NP 002552.2 Le et al 1997 FEBS Lett. 418 1 2 195 199 WO2004047749 WO2003072035 claim 10 Touchman et al 2000 Genome Res. 10 165 173 WO200222660 claim 20 WO2003093444 claim 1 WO2003087768 claim 1 WO2003029277 page 82 

 32 CD72 B cell differentiation antigen CD72 Lyb 2 359 aa pI 8.66 MW 40225 TM 1 P Gene Chromosome 9p13.3 Genbank accession No. NP 001773.1 WO2004042346 claim 65 WO2003026493 pages 51 52 57 58 WO200075655 pages 105 106 Von Hoegen et al 1990 J. Immunol. 144 12 4870 4877 Strausberg et al 2002 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 16899 16903

 33 LY64 Lymphocyte antigen 64 RP105 type I membrane protein of the leucine rich repeat LRR family regulates B cell activation and apoptosis loss of function is associated with increased disease activity in patients with systemic lupus erythematosis 661 aa pI 6.20 MW 74147 TM 1 P Gene Chromosome 5q12 Genbank accession No. NP 005573.1 US2002193567 WO9707198 claim 11 pages 39 42 Miura et al 1996 Genomics 38 3 299 304 Miura et al 1998 Blood 92 2815 2822 WO2003083047 WO9744452 claim 8 pages 57 61 WO200012130 pages 24 26 

 34 FcRH1 Fc receptor like protein 1 a putative receptor for the immunoglobulin Fc domain that contains C2 type Ig like and ITAM domains may have a role in B lymphocyte differentiation 429 aa pI 5.28 MW 46925 TM 1 P Gene Chromosome 1q21 1q22 Genbank accession No. NP 443170.1 WO2003077836 WO200138490 claim 6 FIG. 18E 1 18 E 2 Davis et al 2001 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98 17 9772 9777 WO2003089624 claim 8 EP1347046 claim 1 WO2003089624 claim 7 

 35 IRTA2 FcRH5 Immunoglobulin superfamily receptor translocation associated 2 a putative immunoreceptor with possible roles in B cell development and lymphomagenesis deregulation of the gene by translocation occurs in some B cell malignancies 977 aa pI 6.88 MW 106468 TM 1 P Gene Chromosome 1q21 Genbank accession No. Human AF343662 AF343663 AF343664 AF343665 AF369794 AF397453 AK090423 AK090475 AL834187 AY358085 Mouse AK089756 AY158090 AY506558 NP 112571.1 WO2003024392 claim 2 FIG. 97 Nakayama et al 2000 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 277 1 124 127 WO2003077836 WO200138490 claim 3 FIG. 18B 1 18B 2 

 36 TENB2 TMEFF2 tomoregulin TPEF HPP1 TR putative transmembrane proteoglycan related to the EGF heregulin family of growth factors and follistatin 374 aa NCBI Accession AAD55776 AAF91397 AAG49451 NCBI RefSeq NP 057276 NCBI Gene 23671 OMIM 605734 SwissProt Q9UIK5 Genbank accession No. AF179274 AY358907 CAF85723 CQ782436 WO2004074320 JP2004113151 WO2003042661 WO2003009814 EP1295944 pages 69 70 WO200230268 page 329 WO200190304 US2004249130 US2004022727 WO2004063355 US2004197325 US2003232350 US2004005563 US2003124579 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 410 506 6 642 006 Horie et al 2000 Genomics 67 146 152 Uchida et al 1999 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 266 593 602 Liang et al 2000 Cancer Res. 60 4907 12 Glynne Jones et al 2001 Int J Cancer. October 15 94 2 178 84.

The compounds of the invention include those with utility for anticancer activity. In particular the compounds include an antibody conjugated i.e. covalently attached by a linker to a nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety where the drug when not conjugated to an antibody has a cytotoxic or cytostatic effect. The biological activity of the drug moiety is thus modulated by conjugation to an antibody. The antibody drug conjugates ADC of the invention may selectively deliver an effective dose of a cytotoxic agent to tumor tissue whereby greater selectivity i.e. a lower efficacious dose may be achieved.

In one embodiment the bioavailability of the ADC or an intracellular metabolite of the ADC is improved in a mammal when compared to the corresponding nemorubicin metabolite and analog compound alone. Also the bioavailability of the ADC or an intracellular metabolite of the ADC is improved in a mammal when compared to the corresponding antibody alone antibody of the ADC without the drug moiety or linker .

In one embodiment the nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety of the ADC is not cleaved from the antibody until the antibody drug conjugate binds to a cell surface receptor or enters a cell with a cell surface receptor specific for the antibody of the antibody drug conjugate. The drug moiety may be cleaved from the antibody after the antibody drug conjugate enters the cell. The nemorubicin metabolite and analog drug moiety may be intracellularly cleaved in a mammal from the antibody of the compound or an intracellular metabolite of the compound by enzymatic action hydrolysis oxidation or other mechanism.

Antibody drug conjugates of the invention may also be produced by modification of the antibody to introduce electrophilic moieties which can react with nucleophilic subsituents on the linker reagent or drug. The sugars of glycosylated antibodies may be oxidized e.g. with periodate oxidizing reagents to form aldehyde or ketone groups which may react with the amine group of linker reagents or drug moieties. The resulting imine Schiff base groups may form a stable linkage or may be reduced e.g. by borohydride reagents to form stable amine linkages. In one embodiment reaction of the carbohydrate portion of a glycosylated antibody with either glactose oxidase or sodium meta periodate may yield carbonyl aldehyde and ketone groups in the protein that can react with appropriate groups on the drug Hermanson G. T. 1996 Bioconjugate Techniques Academic Press New York p 234 242 . In another embodiment proteins containing N terminal serine or threonine residues can react with sodium meta periodate resulting in production of an aldehyde in place of the first amino acid Geoghegan Stroh 1992 Bioconjugate Chem. 3 138 146 U.S. Pat. No. 5 362 852 . Such aldehyde can be reacted with a drug moiety or linker nucleophile.

comprising an antibody covalently attached by a linker to one or more nemorubicin metabolite or analog drug moieties or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

The drug to antibody ratio or drug loading is represented by p for Formula I compounds. The drug loading value p is 1 to 8. Formula I compounds include all mixtures of variously loaded and attached antibody drug conjugates where 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 drug moieties are covalently attached to the antibody.

where Ais a divalent unit such as MC maleimidocaproyl MP maleimidopropanoyl or MPEG 2 2 2 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl ethoxy ethoxy acetyl capable of linking an antibody Ab to an amino acid unit such as valine citrulline and Yis a divalent unit such as PAB para aminobenzyloxycarbonyl which links an amino acid unit to the drug moiety D when an amino acid unit is present. In other embodiments Alinks Ydirectly to the drug moiety when the amino acid unit is absent. In other embodiments the Yunit links directly the drug moiety to the antibody unit when both the amino acid unit and the Aunit are absent.

The disulfide linker SPP may be constructed with linker reagent N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridylthio pentanoate.

Rand Rare independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the following structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH and

Rand Rare independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH.

Rand Rare independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

Ris independently an amino acid side chain selected from hydrogen methyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl benzyl p hydroxybenzyl CHOH CH OH CH CHCHSCH CHCONH CHCOOH CHCHCONH CHCHCOOH CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHC NH NH CH NH CH NHCOCH CH NHCHO CH NHCONH CH NHCONH CHCHCH OH CHNH 2 pyridylmethyl 3 pyridylmethyl 4 pyridylmethyl phenyl cyclohexyl and the structures 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

Embodiments of antibody drug conjugates comprise SMCC linkers and the nemorubicin metabolite or analog drug moiety represented as Ab MCC D 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

each Ris independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH and S O CH 

The drug loading is represented by p in an antibody drug conjugate molecule of Formula I the average number of nemorubicin metabolite and analog drugs per antibody. Drug loading may range from 1 to 8 drugs D per antibody Ab i.e. where 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 drug moieties are covalently attached to the antibody. Compositions of ADC of Formula I include collections of antibodies conjugated with a range of drugs from 1 to 8. The average number of drugs per antibody in preparations of ADC from conjugation reactions may be characterized by conventional means such as mass spectroscopy ELISA assay electrophoresis and HPLC. The quantitative distribution of ADC in terms of p may also be determined. By ELISA the averaged value of p in a particular preparation of ADC may be determined Hamblett et al 2004 Clin. Cancer Res. 10 7063 7070 Sanderson et al 2005 Clin. Cancer Res. 11 843 852 . However the distribution of p drug values is not discernible by the antibody antigen binding and detection limitation of ELISA. Also ELISA assay for detection of antibody drug conjugates does not determine where the drug moieties are attached to the antibody such as the heavy chain or light chain fragments or the particular amino acid residues. In some instances separation purification and characterization of homogeneous ADC where p is a certain value from ADC with other drug loadings may be achieved by means such as reverse phase HPLC or electrophoresis.

For some antibody drug conjugates p may be limited by the number of attachment sites on the antibody. For example an antibody may have only one or several cysteine thiol groups or may have only one or several sufficiently reactive thiol groups through which a linker may be attached. Higher drug loading e.g. p 5 may cause aggregation insolubility toxicity or loss of cellular permeability of certain antibody drug conjugates.

Typically fewer than the theoretical maximum of drug moieties are conjugated to an antibody during a conjugation reaction. An antibody may contain for example many lysine residues that do not react with the drug linker intermediate D L or linker reagent. Only the most reactive lysine groups may react with an amine reactive linker reagent. Also only the most reactive cysteine thiol groups may react with a thiol reactive linker reagent. Generally antibodies do not contain many if any free and reactive cysteine thiol groups which may be linked to a drug moiety. Most cysteine thiol residues in the antibodies of the compounds exist as disulfide bridges and must be reduced with a reducing agent such as dithiothreitol DTT or TCEP under partial or total reducing conditions. Additionally the antibody must be subjected to denaturing conditions to reveal reactive nucleophilic groups such as lysine or cysteine. The loading drug antibody ratio of an ADC may be controlled in several different manners including i limiting the molar excess of drug linker intermediate D L or linker reagent relative to antibody ii limiting the conjugation reaction time or temperature and iii partial or limiting reductive conditions for cysteine thiol modification.

Cysteine amino acids may be engineered at reactive sites in an antibody and which do not form intrachain or intermolecular disulfide linkages US 2007 0092940 . The engineered cysteine thiols may react with linker reagents or the drug linker reagents of the present invention which have thiol reactive electrophilic groups such as maleimide or alpha halo amides to form ADC with cysteine engineered antibodies and the nemorubicin metabolite or analog drug moieties. The location of the drug moiety can thus be designed controlled and known. The drug loading can be controlled since the engineered cysteine thiol groups typically react with thiol reactive linker reagents or drug linker reagents in high yield. Engineering an IgG antibody to introduce a cysteine amino acid by substitution at a single site on the heavy or light chain gives two new cysteines on the symmetrical antibody. A drug loading near 2 can be achieved and near homogeneity of the conjugation product ADC.

Where more than one nucleophilic or electrophilic group of the antibody reacts with a drug linker intermediate or linker reagent followed by drug moiety reagent then the resulting product is a mixture of ADC compounds with a distribution of drug moieties attached to an antibody e.g. 1 2 3 etc. Liquid chromatography methods such as polymeric reverse phase PLRP and hydrophobic interaction HIC may separate compounds in the mixture by drug loading value. Preparations of ADC with a single drug loading value p may be isolated however these single loading value ADCs may still be heterogeneous mixtures because the drug moieties may be attached via the linker at different sites on the antibody.

The ADC of Formula I may be prepared by several routes employing organic chemistry reactions conditions and reagents known to those skilled in the art including 1 reaction of a nucleophilic group or an electrophilic group of an antibody with a bivalent linker reagent to form antibody linker intermediate Ab L via a covalent bond followed by reaction with an activated drug moiety reagent and 2 reaction of a nucleophilic group or an electrophilic group of a drug moiety reagent with a linker reagent to form drug linker reagent D L via a covalent bond followed by reaction with the nucleophilic group or an electrophilic group of an antibody. Conjugation methods 1 and 2 may be employed with a variety of antibodies drug moieties and linkers to prepare the antibody drug conjugates of Formula I.

Nucleophilic groups on antibodies include but are not limited to i N terminal amine groups ii side chain amine groups e.g. lysine iii side chain thiol groups e.g. cysteine and iv sugar hydroxyl or amino groups where the antibody is glycosylated. Amine thiol and hydroxyl groups are nucleophilic and capable of reacting to form covalent bonds with electrophilic groups on linker moieties and linker reagents including i active esters such as NHS esters HOBt esters haloformates and acid halides ii alkyl and benzyl halides such as haloacetamides iii aldehydes ketones carboxyl and maleimide groups. Certain antibodies have reducible interchain disulfides i.e. cysteine bridges. Antibodies may be made reactive for conjugation with linker reagents by treatment with a reducing agent such as DTT Cleland s reagent dithiothreitol or TCEP tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine hydrochloride Getz et al 1999 Anal. Biochem. Vol 273 73 80 Soltec Ventures Beverly Mass. . Each cysteine disulfide bridge will thus form theoretically two reactive thiol nucleophiles. Additional nucleophilic groups can be introduced into antibodies through the reaction of lysines with 2 iminothiolane Traut s reagent resulting in conversion of an amine into a thiol.

Antibody drug conjugates may also be produced by modification of the antibody to introduce electrophilic moieties which can react with nucleophilic substituents on the linker reagent or drug. The sugars of glycosylated antibodies may be oxidized e.g. with periodate oxidizing reagents to form aldehyde or ketone groups which may react with the amine group of linker reagents or drug moieties. The resulting imine Schiff base groups may form a stable linkage or may be reduced e.g. by borohydride reagents to form stable amine linkages. In one embodiment reaction of the carbohydrate portion of a glycosylated antibody with either galactose oxidase or sodium meta periodate may yield carbonyl aldehyde and ketone groups in the protein that can react with appropriate groups on the drug Hermanson G. T. 1996 Bioconjugate Techniques Academic Press New York p 234 242 . In another embodiment proteins containing N terminal serine or threonine residues can react with sodium meta periodate resulting in production of an aldehyde in place of the first amino acid Geoghegan Stroh 1992 Bioconjugate Chem. 3 138 146 U.S. Pat. No. 5 362 852 . Such aldehyde can be reacted with a drug moiety or linker nucleophile.

Likewise nucleophilic groups on a drug moiety include but are not limited to amine thiol hydroxyl hydrazide oxime hydrazine thiosemicarbazone hydrazine carboxylate and arylhydrazide groups capable of reacting to form covalent bonds with electrophilic groups on linker moieties and linker reagents including i active esters such as NHS esters HOBt esters haloformates and acid halides ii alkyl and benzyl halides such as haloacetamides iii aldehydes ketones carboxyl and maleimide groups. Reactive nucleophilic groups may be introduced on the nemorubicin metabolite and analog compounds by standard functional group intercoversions. For example hydroxyl groups may be converted to thiol groups by Mitsunobu type reactions to form thiol modified drug compounds.

Screening for Antibody Drug Conjugates ADC Directed Against Tumor Assoclated Antigens and Cell Surface Receptors

Assay methods for detecting cancer cells comprise exposing cells to an antibody drug conjugate compound and determining the extent of binding of the antibody drug conjugate compound to the cells. Formula I ADC compounds which are identified in the animal models and cell based assays can be further tested in tumor bearing higher primates and human clinical trials.

Transgenic animals and cell lines are particularly useful in screening antibody drug conjugates ADC that have potential as prophylactic or therapeutic treatments of diseases or disorders involving overexpression of tumor associated antigens and cell surface receptors e.g. HER2 U.S. Pat. No. 6 632 979 . Screening for a useful ADC may involve administering candidate ADC over a range of doses to the transgenic animal and assaying at various time points for the effect s of the ADC on the disease or disorder being evaluated. Alternatively or additionally the drug can be administered prior to or simultaneously with exposure to an inducer of the disease if applicable. Candidate ADC may be screened serially and individually or in parallel under medium or high throughput screening format. The rate at which ADC may be screened for utility for prophylactic or therapeutic treatments of diseases or disorders is limited only by the rate of synthesis or screening methodology including detecting measuring analysis of data.

One embodiment is a screening method comprising a transplanting cells from a stable breast cancer cell line into a non human animal b administering an ADC drug candidate to the non human animal and c determining the ability of the candidate to inhibit the formation of tumors from the transplanted cell line. The invention also concerns a method of screening ADC candidates for the treatment of a disease or disorder characterized by the overexpression of a receptor protein comprising a contacting cells from a stable breast cancer cell line with a drug candidate and b evaluating the ability of the ADC candidate to inhibit the growth of the stable cell line.

One embodiment is a screening method comprising a contacting cells from a stable breast cancer cell line with an ADC drug candidate and b evaluating the ability of the ADC candidate to induce cell death induce apoptosis block heregulin binding block ligand stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation or block ligand activation of HER2. Another embodiment the ability of the ADC candidate to is evaluated. In another embodiment the ability of the ADC candidate to is evaluated.

Another embodiment is a screening method comprising a administering an ADC drug candidate to a transgenic non human mammal that overexpresses e.g. in its mammary gland cells a native human protein e.g. HER2 or a fragment thereof wherein such transgenic mammal has stably integrated into its genome a nucleic acid sequence encoding the native human protein or a fragment thereof having the biological activity of the native human protein operably linked to transcriptional regulatory sequences directing its expression and develops a tumor. Candidate ADC are screened by being administered to the transgenic animal over a range of doses and evaluating the animal s physiological response to the compounds over time. Administration may be oral or by suitable injection depending on the chemical nature of the compound being evaluated. In some cases it may be appropriate to administer the compound in conjunction with co factors that would enhance the efficacy of the compound. If cell lines derived from the subject transgenic animals are used to screen for compounds useful in treating various disorders associated with overexpression of certain tumor associated antigen proteins or cell surface receptors e.g. HER2 overexpression. To identify growth inhibitory ADC compounds that specifically target HER2 one may screen for ADC which inhibit the growth of HER2 overexpressing cancer cells derived from transgenic animals U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 171 .

Generally the cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of an antibody drug conjugate ADC is measured by exposing mammalian cells having tumor associated antigens or receptor proteins to the antibody of the ADC in a cell culture medium culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability. Cell based in vitro assays may be used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation of the ADC. The CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay is a commercially available Promega Corp. Madison Wis. homogeneous assay method based on the recombinant expression of Coleoptera luciferase U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 583 024 5 674 713 5 700 670 . This cell proliferation assay determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay is conducted in 96 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

Serum clearance and stability of ADC may be investigated in nude naive without tumors received by exogenous grafts mice. A difference in the amount of total antibody and ADC indicates cleavage of the linker and separation of the antibody from its drug moiety.

The efficacy of the antibody drug conjugates of the invention may be measured in vivo by implanting allografts or xenografts of cancer cells or primary tumors in rodents and treating the tumors with ADC. Variable results are to be expected depending on the cell line the specificity of antibody binding of the ADC to receptors present on the cancer cells dosing regimen and other factors. For example the in vivo efficacy of anti HER2 ADC may be measured by a high expressing HER2 transgenic explant mouse model. An allograft may be propagated from the Fo5 mmtv transgenic mouse which does not respond to or responds poorly to HERCEPTIN therapy. Subjects are treated once with ADC and monitored over 3 6 weeks to measure the time to tumor doubling log cell kill and tumor shrinkage. Follow up dose response and multi dose experiments may further be conducted.

Antibody drug conjugates and an ADC minus control Vehicle may be evaluated in an acute toxicity rat model Brown et al 2002 Cancer Chemother. Pharmacol. 50 333 340 . Toxicity of ADC are investigated by treatment of female Sprague Dawley rats with the ADC and subsequent inspection and analysis of the effects on various organs. Based on gross observations body weights clinical pathology parameters serum chemistry and hematology and histopathology the toxicity of ADC may be observed characterized and measured.

A multi day acute toxicity study in adolescent female rats may be conducted by one or more doses of a candidate ADC a control ADC free nemorubicin metabolite and analog compound and a control Vehicle day 0 . Body weight is measured periodically. Clinical chemistry serum enzymes and hematology analysis is also conducted periodically concluding with complete necropsy with histopathological assessment. Toxicity signals included the clinical observation of weight loss considering that weight loss or weight change relative to animals dosed only with Vehicle in animals after dosing with ADC is a gross and general indicator of systemic or localized toxicity. Hepatotoxicity may be measured by i elevated liver enzymes such as AST aspartate aminotransferase ALT alanine aminotransferase GGT g glutamyl transferase ii increased numbers of mitotic and apoptotic figures and iii hepatocyte necrosis. Hematolymphoid toxicity is observed by depletion of leukocytes primarily granuloctyes neutrophils and or platelets and lymphoid organ involvement i.e. atrophy or apoptotic activity. Toxicity is also noted by gastrointestinal tract lesions such as increased numbers of mitotic and apoptotic figures and degenerative entercolitis.

Therapeutic antibody drug conjugates ADC may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. The ADC will typically be administered parenterally i.e. infusion subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intradermal intrathecal bolus intratumor injection or epidural Shire et al 2004 J. Pharm. Sciences 93 6 1390 1402 . Pharmaceutical formulations of therapeutic antibody drug conjugates ADC are typically prepared for parenteral administration with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form. An antibody drug conjugate ADC having the desired degree of purity is optionally mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers in the form of a lyophilized formulation or an aqueous solution Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. .

Acceptable parenteral vehicles diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include i buffers such as phosphate citrate dibasic calcium phosphate magnesium stearate and other organic acids ii antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine iii preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol iv alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol v low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins vi hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone vii amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine viii monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose lactose sucrose mannitol trehalose sodium starch glycolate sorbitol mannose carboxymethylcellulose or dextrins ix chelating agents such as EDTA x salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes xi non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG xii glidants or granulating agents such as magnesium stearate carboxymethylcellulose talc silica and hydrogenated vegetable oil xiii disintegrant such as crosprovidone sodium starch glycolate or cornstarch xiv thickening agents such as gelatin and polyethylene glycol xv enteric coatings such as triethyl citrate and or xvi taste or texture modifiers antifoaming agents pigments and dessicants. For example lyophilized anti ErbB2 antibody formulations are described in WO 97 04801 expressly incorporated herein by reference. An exemplary formulation of an ADC contains about 100 mg ml of trehalose 2 hydroxymethyl 6 3 4 5 trihydroxy 6 hydroxymethyl tetrahydropyran 2 yl oxy tetrahydropyran 3 4 5 triol CHO CAS Number 99 20 7 and about 0.1 TWEEN 20 polysorbate 20 dodecanoic acid 2 2 3 4 bis 2 hydroxyethoxy tetrahydrofuran 2 yl 2 2 hydroxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl ester CHO CAS Number 9005 64 5 at approximately pH 6.

Pharmaceutical formulations of a therapeutic antibody drug conjugate ADC may contain certain amounts of unreacted drug moiety D antibody linker intermediate Ab L and or drug linker intermediate D L as a consequence of incomplete purification and separation of excess reagents impurities and by products in the process of making the ADC or time temperature hydrolysis or degradation upon storage of the bulk ADC or formulated ADC composition. For example a formulation of the ADC may contain a detectable amount of free drug. Alternatively or in addition to it may contain a detectable amount of drug linker intermediate. Alternatively or in addition to it may contain a detectable amount of the antibody. The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacrylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semi permeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the ADC which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

Formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared under sterile conditions and by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the ADC with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active materials ADC in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcelluose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxy benzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of ADC may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butane diol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur. Subcutaneous bolus administration may be effected with about 1.5 ml or less of total volume and a concentration of about 100 mg ADC per ml. For ADC that require frequent and chronic administration the subcutaneous route may be employed such as by pre filled syringe or autoinjector device technology.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of ADC administered per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day. For example human patients may be initially dosed at about 1.5 mg ADC per kg patient body weight. The dose may be escalated to the maximally tolerated dose MTD . The dosing schedule may be about every 3 weeks but according to diagnosed condition or response the schedule may be more or less frequent. The dose may be further adjusted during the course of treatment to be at or below MTD which can be safely administered for multiple cycles such as about 4 or more.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Although oral administration of protein therapeutics are generally disfavored due to poor bioavailability due to limited absorption hydrolysis or denaturation in the gut formulations of ADC suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the ADC.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Exemplary unit dosage formulations contain a daily dose or unit daily sub dose or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

Formula I ADC may be used to treat various diseases or disorders in a patient such as cancer and autoimmune conditions including those characterized by the overexpression of a tumor associated antigen. Exemplary conditions or disorders include benign or malignant tumors leukemia and lymphoid malignancies other disorders such as neuronal glial astrocytal hypothalamic glandular macrophagal epithelial stromal blastocoelic inflammatory angiogenic and immunologic disorders. Cancer types susceptible to ADC treatment include those which are characterized by the overexpression of certain tumor associated antigens or cell surface receptors e.g. HER2.

One method is for the treatment of cancer in a mammal wherein the cancer is characterized by the overexpression of an ErbB receptor. The mammal optionally does not respond or responds poorly to treatment with an unconjugated anti ErbB antibody. The method comprises administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody drug conjugate compound. The growth of tumor cells that overexpress a growth factor receptor such as HER2 receptor or EGF receptor may be inhibitied by administering to a patient a Formula I ADC which binds specifically to said growth factor receptor and a chemotherapeutic agent wherein said antibody drug conjugate and said chemotherapeutic agent are each administered in amounts effective to inhibit growth of tumor cells in the patient.

A human patient susceptible to or diagnosed with a disorder characterized by overexpression of ErbB2 receptor may be treated by administering a combination of a Formula I ADC and a chemotherapeutic agent. Such excessive activation may be attributable to overexpression or increased production of the ErbB receptor or an ErbB ligand. In one embodiment a diagnostic or prognostic assay will be performed to determine whether the patient s cancer is characterized by excessive activation of an ErbB receptor. For example ErbB gene amplification and or overexpression of an ErbB receptor in the cancer may be determined. Various assays for determining such amplification overexpression are available in the art and include IHC FISH and shed antigen assays.

Examples of cancer to be treated herein include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer gastrointestinal stromal tumor GIST pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the appropriate dosage of an ADC will depend on the type of disease to be treated as defined above the severity and course of the disease whether the molecule is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the antibody and the discretion of the attending physician. The ADC formulation is suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments. Depending on the type and severity of the disease about 1 g kg to 15 mg kg e.g. 0.1 20 mg kg of ADC is an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient whether for example by one or more separate administrations or by continuous infusion. A typical dosage regimen might range from about 1 g kg to 100 mg kg or more depending on the factors mentioned above. An exemplary dosage of ADC to be administered to a patient is in the range of about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg of patient weight. For repeated administrations over several days or longer depending on the condition the treatment is sustained until a desired suppression of disease symptoms occurs. An exemplary dosing regimen comprises administering an initial loading dose of about 4 mg kg followed by a weekly maintenance dose of about 2 mg kg of the ADC. Other dosage regimens may be useful.

An antibody drug conjugate ADC may be combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound having anti cancer properties. The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the ADC of the combination such that they do not adversely affect each other.

The second compound may be a chemotherapeutic agent cytotoxic agent cytokine growth inhibitory agent anti hormonal agent aromatase inhibitor protein kinase inhibitor lipid kinase inhibitor anti androgen antisense oligonucleotide ribozyme gene therapy vaccine anti angiogenic agent and or cardioprotectant. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. A pharmaceutical composition containing an ADC may also have a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent such as a tubulin forming inhibitor a topoisomerase inhibitor or a DNA binder.

Alternatively or additionally the second compound may be an antibody which binds or blocks ligand activation of tumor associated antigen or receptor. The second antibody may be conjugated with a cytotoxic or chemotherapeutic agent e.g. a macrocyclic depsipeptide an auristatin a calicheamicin or a 1 8 bis naphthalimide moiety. For example it may be desirable to further provide antibodies which bind to EGFR ErbB2 ErbB3 ErbB4 or vascular endothelial factor VEGF in the one formulation or dosing regimen.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

In one embodiment treatment with an ADC of the present invention involves the combined administration of an anticancer agent identified herein and one or more chemotherapeutic agents or growth inhibitory agents. Preparation and dosing schedules for such chemotherapeutic agents may be used according to manufacturers s instructions or as determined empirically by the skilled practitioner. Preparation and dosing schedules for such chemotherapy are also described in Chemotherapy Service Ed. M. C. Perry Williams Wilkins Baltimore Md. 1992 .

The ADC may be combined with an anti hormonal compound e.g. an anti estrogen compound such as tamoxifen an anti progesterone such as onapristone EP 616812 or an anti androgen such as flutamide in dosages known for such molecules. Where the cancer to be treated is hormone independent cancer the patient may previously have been subjected to anti hormonal therapy and after the cancer becomes hormone independent the anti ErbB2 antibody and optionally other agents as described herein may be administered to the patient. It may be beneficial to also coadminister a cardioprotectant to prevent or reduce myocardial dysfunction associated with the therapy or one or more cytokines to the patient. In addition to the above therapeutic regimes the patient may be subjected to surgical removal of cancer cells and or radiation therapy.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of the ADC compounds described herein to the extent such products are novel and unobvious over the prior art. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation esterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes novel and unobvious compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products may be identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H ADC administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The conversion products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the ADC compounds.

Metabolites include the products of in vivo cleavage of the ADC where cleavage of any bond occurs that links the drug moiety to the antibody. Metabolic cleavage may thus result in the naked antibody or an antibody fragment. The antibody metabolite may be linked to a part or all of the linker. Metabolic cleavage may also result in the production a drug moiety or part thereof. The drug moiety metabolite may be linked to a part or all of the linker.

In another embodiment an article of manufacture or kit containing ADC and materials useful for the treatment of the disorders described above is provided. The article of manufacture comprises a container and a label or package insert on or associated with the container. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes or blister pack. The containers may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds an antibody drug conjugate ADC composition which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is an ADC. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer.

In one embodiment the article of manufacture may further comprise a second or third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution and a package insert indicating that the first and second compounds can be used to treat cancer. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

Full length cysteine engineered monoclonal antibodies ThioMabs are expressed in CHO cells and bear cysteine adducts cystines on the engineered cysteines due to cell culture conditions US 2007 0092940 Junutula et al CYSTEINE ENGINEERED ANTI MUC16 ANTIBODIES AND ANTIBODY DRUG CONJUGATES U.S. Ser. No. 60 916 657 filed 8 May 2007 . To liberate the reactive thiol groups of the engineered cysteines the ThioMabs are dissolved in 500 mM sodium borate and 500 mM sodium chloride at about pH 8.0 and reduced with about a 50 100 fold excess of 1 mM TCEP tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine hydrochloride Getz et al 1999 Anal. Biochem. Vol 273 73 80 Soltec Ventures Beverly Mass. for about 1 2 hrs at 37 C. The reduced ThioMab is diluted and loaded onto a HiTrap S column in 10 mM sodium acetate pH 5 and eluted with PBS containing 0.3M sodium chloride. The eluted reduced ThioMab is treated with 2 mM dehydroascorbic acid dhAA at pH 7 for 3 hours or 2 mM aqueous copper sulfate CuSO at room temperature overnight. Ambient air oxidation may also be effective. The buffer is exchanged by elution over Sephadex G25 resin and eluted with PBS with 1 mM DTPA. The thiol Ab value is checked by determining the reduced antibody concentration from the absorbance at 280 nm of the solution and the thiol concentration by reaction with DTNB Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. and determination of the absorbance at 412 nm.

After the reduction and reoxidation procedures of Example 1 the cysteine engineered antibody is dissolved in PBS phosphate buffered saline buffer and chilled on ice. About 1.5 molar equivalents relative to engineered cysteines per antibody of nemorubicin metabolite or analog drug linker reagent such as MC D maleimidocaproyl MC val cit PAB D or MC val cit PAB D with a thiol reactive functional group such as maleimido is dissolved in DMSO diluted in acetonitrile and water and added to the chilled reduced reoxidized cysteine engineered antibody in PBS. After about one hour an excess of maleimide is added to quench the reaction and cap any unreacted antibody thiol groups. The reaction mixture is concentrated by centrifugal ultrafiltration and the antibody drug conjugate is purified and desalted by elution through G25 resin in PBS filtered through 0.2 m filters under sterile conditions and frozen for storage.

Antibody dissolved in 500 mM sodium borate and 500 mM sodium chloride at pH 8.0 is treated with an excess of 100 mM dithiothreitol DTT . After incubation at 37 C. for about 30 minutes the buffer is exchanged by elution over Sephadex G25 resin and eluted with PBS with 1 mM DTPA. The thiol Ab value is checked by determining the reduced antibody concentration from the absorbance at 280 nm of the solution and the thiol concentration by reaction with DTNB Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. and determination of the absorbance at 412 nm. The reduced antibody dissolved in PBS is chilled on ice.

The drug linker reagent maleimidocaproyl PNU 159682 dissolved in DMSO is diluted in acetonitrile and water at known concentration and added to the chilled reduced antibody in PBS. After about one hour an excess of maleimide is added to quench the reaction and cap any unreacted antibody thiol groups. The reaction mixture is concentrated by centrifugal ultrafiltration and Ab MC PNU 159682 is purified and desalted by elution through G25 resin in PBS filtered through 0.2 m filters under sterile conditions and frozen for storage.

Purified antibody is derivatized with succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC Pierce Biotechnology Inc to introduce the MCC linker. Antibody is treated at 20 mg mL in 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 2 mM EDTA pH 6.5 with 7.5 molar equivalents of SMCC 20 mM in DMSO 6.7 mg mL . After stirring for 2 hours under argon at ambient temperature the reaction mixture is filtered through a Sephadex G25 column equilibrated with 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 2 mM EDTA pH 6.5. Antibody containing fractions are pooled and assayed.

Ab MCC from above is diluted with 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 2 mM EDTA pH 6.5 to a final concentration of about 10 mg ml and reacted with a 10 mM solution of thiol modified PNU 159682 1.7 equivalents assuming 5 MCC Ab 7.37 mg ml in dimethylacetamide. The reaction is stirred at ambient temperature under argon 16.5 hours. The conjugation reaction mixture is filtered through a Sephadex G25 gel filtration column 1.5 4.9 cm with 1 PBS at pH 6.5. The drug to antibody ratio p may be about 2 to 5 as measured by the absorbance at 252 nm and at 280 nm.

Purified antibody is derivatized with N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridylthio pentanoate to introduce dithiopyridyl groups and form Ab SPP Py. Purified antibody 376.0 mg 8 mg mL in 44.7 mL of 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.5 containing NaCl 50 mM and EDTA 1 mM is treated with SPP 5.3 molar equivalents in 2.3 mL ethanol . After incubation for 90 minutes under argon at ambient temperature the reaction mixture is gel filtered through a Sephadex G25 column equilibrated with 35 mM sodium citrate 154 mM NaCl 2 mM EDTA. Antibody containing fractions are pooled and assayed. The degree of modification of the antibody is determined as described above.

Ab SPP Py about 10 tmoles of releasable 2 thiopyridine groups is diluted with the above 35 mM sodium citrate buffer pH 6.5 to a final concentration of about 2.5 mg mL. Thiol modified PNU 159682 1.7 equivalents 17 moles in 3.0 mM dimethylacetamide DMA 3 v v in the final reaction mixture is then added to the antibody solution. The reaction proceeds at ambient temperature under argon for about 20 hours.

The reaction is loaded on a Sephacryl S300 gel filtration column 5.0 cm 90.0 cm 1.77 L equilibrated with 35 mM sodium citrate 154 mM NaCl pH 6.5. The flow rate may be about 5.0 mL min and 65 fractions 20.0 mL each are collected. The number of drug molecules linked per antibody molecule p is determined by measuring the absorbance at 252 nm and 280 nm.

An antibody with a reactive cysteine thiol group such as a cysteine engineered antibody or an antibody previously treated with a reducing agent such as DTT to reduce disulfide linkages is reacted with 1 11 bis maleimidotriethyleneglycol BM PEO 3 Pierce BioTechnology ThermoScientific leaving an unreacted maleimido group on the surface of the antibody. This may be accomplished by dissolving BM PEO 3 in a 50 ethanol water mixture to a concentration of 10 mM and adding a tenfold molar excess to a solution containing antibody in phosphate buffered saline at a concentration of approximately 1.6 mg ml 10 micromolar and allowing it to react for 1 hour to form antibody linker intermediate Ab PEO. Excess BM PEO 3 is removed by gel filtration HiTrap column Pharmacia in 30 mM citrate pH 6 with 150 mM NaCl buffer. An approximate 10 fold molar excess thiol modified PNU 159682 is dissolved in dimethyl acetamide DMA and added to the Ab PEO intermediate. Dimethyl formamide DMF may also be employed to dissolve the drug moiety reagent. The reaction mixture is allowed to react overnight before gel filtration or dialysis into PBS to remove unreacted PNU 159682 . Gel filtration on S200 columns in PBS is used to remove high molecular weight aggregates and furnish purified Ab PEO PNU 159682 .

All patents patent applications and references cited throughout the specification are expressly incorporated by reference.

