---

title: Helmet dispensing system
abstract: The present disclosure provides systems and methods for the dispensing and collection of objects in urban environments. More particularly, the disclosure provides systems and methods for dispensing and collecting helmets. The disclosure provides a self-sufficient, high-capacity, helmet dispensing system. In some embodiments, the system includes solar panels that provide the system with the requisite power needed to power the system. In some implementations, the system includes a vandal resistant return mechanism for the helmets. The system may also include communication modules, which may transmit system information to a backend server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09320364&OS=09320364&RS=09320364
owner: HelmutHub Corporation
number: 09320364
owner_city: Somerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140702
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 842 711 filed on Jul. 3 2013 and titled HELMET DISPENSING SYSTEM which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Bike share programs are increasing in popularity in many urban environments. The bike share programs often include a distributed network of self service pickup and drop off locations. Users may pick up a bike from one of the locations on an as needed basis and return the bike to any of the locations within the network. Unfortunately users often do not have access to helmets when picking up a bike from one of the locations and the distributed nature of the locations makes it impractical to have manned kiosks at each of the locations to rent helmets to users.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods for the dispensing and collection of objects in urban environments. More particularly the disclosure provides systems and methods for dispensing and collecting helmets. The disclosure provides a self sufficient high capacity helmet dispensing system and a backend system for the management of the dispensing systems and the inventory stored therein.

According to one aspect of the disclosure a system for helmet rentals includes a kiosk. The kiosk includes a compartment for storing helmets. The compartment can include a dispensing unit with one or more vertical rods. Each of the one or more vertical rods can be configured to hold a plurality of helmets in a vertical stacking arrangement. The kiosk can also include a release mechanism coupled to the one or more vertical rods to release one of the plurality of helmets. The release of a helmet can be responsive to a signal to release the helmet of the plurality of helmets. The kiosk can also include a drawer coupled with the housing of the kiosk. The drawer can be configured to receive the return of the helmet.

In some implementations the dispensing unit can include at least three vertical rods. Each of the one or more vertical rods can hold at least six helmets. The kiosk can also include a communications module to transmit an indication that the dispensing unit released the one of the plurality of helmets. The communications module can also transmit an indication that the one of the plurality of helmets was placed in the drawer an indication that a number of helmets stored in the dispensing unit fell below a predetermined threshold or an indication that the number of returned helmets rose above a threshold.

The dispensing unit can include a quick release to release the one or more vertical rods from the dispensing unit. In some implementations the kiosk includes one or more solar panels to power the system. The one of the plurality of helmets released can be released from a bottom of the vertical stacking arrangement. In some implementations the kiosk includes an interface to receive a request from a bike sharing system to release the one of the plurality of helmets.

According to another aspect of the disclosure a method of dispensing a helmet can include providing by a kiosk an interface to receive a request to dispense a helmet. The method can also include determining by a controller to dispense the helmet responsive to receiving a request at the kiosk. The method can also include transmitting by the controller responsive to the determination a signal to a dispensing unit to release the helmet. The dispensing unit can include one or more vertical rods configured to hold a plurality of helmets in a vertical stacking arrangement. The method may also include releasing by a release mechanism within the dispensing unit the helmet from the one or more vertical rods.

In some implementations the dispensing unit includes at least three vertical rods. Each of the one or more vertical rods can be configured to hold at least six helmets. The method may also include transmitting by a communications module an indication that the helmet was released from the kiosk an indication that the helmet was returned to the kiosk an indication that a number of helmets stored in the dispensing unit is below a predetermined threshold or an indication that a number of helmets returned to the kiosk is above a second threshold.

In some implementations the method can include receiving by a return system the helmet. In some implementations the kiosk is powered by one or more solar panels. The method can include replacing the one or more vertical rods with a second one or more vertical rods prefilled with helmets. In some implementations the method includes receiving the request from a bike sharing system.

The various concepts introduced above and discussed in greater detail below may be implemented in any of numerous ways as the described concepts are not limited to any particular manner of implementation. Examples of specific implementations and applications are provided primarily for illustrative purposes.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful 

Section A describes embodiments of systems and methods for dispensing helmets with a helmet rental kiosk

Section B describes a network environment and computing environment which may be useful for practicing embodiments described herein.

The disclosure presents systems and methods for dispensing and collecting helmets. Bike share programs are becoming more prevalent in metropolitan areas. Unfortunately due to a user s spontaneous use of the bikes in the bike share program users may rarely have access to a helmet when riding a bike share bike. The present disclosure presents systems that may be positioned at a bike share station. Users may check out a helmet from the system when renting a bike share bike. The users may then return the helmet at a later date. In general the system may include several subsystems. These subsystems may include a dispensing system and return system and a backend system.

The system can also include a backend server . The backend server can include an inventory database . The backend server may track the use and availability of helmets by storing relevant information in the inventory database . The backend server may store kiosk IDs rod IDs and helmet IDs . The inventory tracking module may reference the data stored in the inventory database to determine the inventory of the kiosk . The backend server may also include a usage analysis module and a notification system . The backend server may also include a payment system for processing the rental transactions. In some implementations one or more of the components of the backend server may be included as a component of the kiosk . For example the one or more of the components of the backend server may be a software application that is stored in a computer readable medium associated with the controller . The controller may execute the application to perform the functions of the components.

Referring to in greater detail the system can include a kiosk . The mechanics of the kiosk are described below but briefly the kiosk can include a plurality of subsystems to enable the rental of helmets. The kiosk can include a controller . The controller can include one or more processors that implement machine executable instructions to perform the methods described herein. The one or more processors may by any type of single or multi core processor capable of executing machine readable instructions. For example the controller may be a computer or programmable processor. The controller may include special purpose logic circuitry such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC.

The kiosk may also include a display . In some implementations a user may interact with the kiosk using the display . For example the display may be a touch screen or a display surrounded by a plurality of physical buttons. Using the buttons whether physical or part of a graphical user interface GUI the user may select pay for the rental of a helmet and return the helmet. In some implementations the display can be used by a technician to determine how many helmets the kiosk currently has available for rental or to view status information of the kiosk . For example the display may be used to display battery levels and maintenance needs to a technician. When not being actively used by a user to rent a helmet the display may display ads or other information. For example the display may display information about where other kiosks can be found in town.

The kiosk can also include a power system . The power system can be configured to power the various components of the kiosk . In some implementations the power system is an AC power supply that receives electrical power from a mains supply or other outlet. The power system may include a DC converter to convert the supplied AC power into DC power for the controller and other components of the kiosk . In other implementations the power system can include one or more batteries that power the kiosk . The batteries may be used as a primary source of power or may be used as back up if the primary power source fails. The power system may include one or more solar panels. In some embodiments the solar panels may be placed on the top or sides of the kiosk . The solar panels may charge a set of batteries housed in the kiosk . The batteries may then power the various electronics of the kiosk . In some implementations the solar panels may generate enough electricity to fully power the kiosk . The batteries charged by the solar panels may be configured to power the kiosk independently for between 1 and 15 days e.g. the batteries may power the kiosk even after seven consecutive days of cloudy weather prevented the solar panels from generating a substantial amount of electricity . In some implementations the power system may be configured to include a plurality of power systems e.g. solar and AC power that can be selected based on predetermined conditions. For example if the kiosk is placed in a sunny park the kiosk may run on energy gathered by the solar panels. In another example the power system may be placed near a building and have relatively easy access to AC power. In this example the power system may use AC power to power its systems.

The kiosk can also include a communications module . The kiosk can communicate with other devices and the server through the communications module . The communications module can enable the kiosk to communicate with devices over the network using wired or wireless communication protocols. For example the communications module enable the kiosk to communicate with other devices over RS 232 phone lines powerlines Ethernet WiFi Bluetooth WiMAX 3G 4G cellular networks or a combination thereof. In some implementations costs of the kiosk can be reduced by moving some systems from the kiosk to the backend server for example the payment system and the inventory tracking module . In this example the kiosk may not track its inventory but relays an indication via the communications module of a rental to the backend server each time a helmet is rented and the backend server maintains the inventory information for the kiosk . In some implementations the communications module may transmit indications of its real time inventory to the server such that a technician may view the kiosk s inventory. The kiosk may also transmit indications of its stock of returned helmets or directly alert a technician when the number of returned helmets has reached or rises above a predetermined threshold so that the technician may remove the returned helmets from the kiosk for cleaning. The kiosk can also directly or indirectly through the server notify a technician if the inventory of helmets in the kiosk drops below a predetermined level.

The kiosk can also include a dispensing unit and a return system . The dispensing unit stores the helmets prior to the rental of the helmet. In some implementations the dispensing unit includes a plurality of rods on which the helmets are vertically stacked. When a user rents a helmet from the kiosk the dispensing unit releases one helmet from one of the plurality of rods. The user may return the helmet to the kiosk via the return system . In some implementations the return system is a drawer or other return receptacle. In some implementations the return system can be configured to only accept helmets such that trash and other debris cannot enter the kiosk .

Still referring to the system can include a backend server. The backend server can include an inventory database for managing and tracking the inventory of the kiosk . Each of the kiosks may be associated with a kiosk ID . Each kiosk ID can be associated with a plurality of rod IDS which in turn can each be associated with a plurality of helmet IDS . The data stored in the inventory database can be maintained by the inventory tracking module . The inventory tracking module can receive an indication from the kiosk when a helmet is rented or returned. The indication may include the kiosk ID a rod ID a helmet ID a user ID a timestamp or any combination thereof. When a helmet is returned the inventory tracking module may receive an indication from the kiosk and mark the corresponding helmet as returned.

The backend server can also include a usage analysis module that can track the usage of each kiosk . In some implementations the usage analysis module can generate usage reports. The usage reports can indicate kiosk statistics such as how many helmets a specific kiosk rents out over a given time period how many helmets are currently available for rent in a given area and which kiosk generates the most business when compared to the other kiosks located in the same city. The usage analysis module may also monitor the operation of the kiosk and alert a technician if the usage analysis module detects a fault with a kiosk . The usage analysis module through the notification system can send notifications when the inventory in a kiosk or when the combined inventory of a plurality of kiosks falls below a predetermined number and needs to be refilled. In some implementations the notifications generated by the notification system can include an email SMS or push notification. The usage analysis module may also track the use of helmets in the system . For example the usage analysis module may indicate the helmets should be removed from the system after being used a predetermined number of times.

The backend server can also include a payment system . The payment system can handle the processing of credit cards and debit cards when a helmet is checked out from a kiosk . For example a user may enter their credit card information at the display of the kiosk . The information may be transmitted to the payment system where it is processed and the user s account is debited. In some implementations the user may purchase a monthly subscription to the system . For example users may be able to create accounts associated with the kiosk . In some embodiments the user may be able to associate a method of payment e.g. a credit card with the user s account such that the user s method of payment is automatically debited by the payment system when the user rents a helmet. In this example the user may input a user name or code via the display which is transmitted back to the payment system . The payment system may determine the validity of the user s subscription and if valid indicate to the kiosk that the kiosk should release a helmet to the user. In another implementation the rental of the helmet may be included with the rental of a bike from a bike share system . In this example the bike share system may transmit an indication to the payment system that the kiosk should release a helmet to the user. The kiosk may provide the bike share system with an API that enables the bike share system to communicate with the kiosk or server . In some implementations the bike share system can interface with the controller of the kiosk to have the kiosk release a helmet to the user without first sending the request to the payment system . In some implementations if the user does not return a rented helmet at the predetermined time or if the helmet is returned damaged the payment system may charge a fee to the user s credit card. In some implementations the payment system debits the users account when the helmet is rented and in other implementations the payment system debits the users account after the helmet is returned.

Referring to in greater detail the kiosk can include a plurality of display panels . For example the kiosk may include a display panel on the front back and two sides. The display panel may be used to display information to users such as pricing information. The display panel may be used to attract potential customers. The display panel may house a printed poster or decal. For example the display panel may be used to display ads for which the owner of the kiosk receives revenue. In other embodiments the display panel may be used to display information such as locations in town where additional kiosk are placed a map indicating places of interest and or a map indicating roads with biking lanes. In other embodiments one or more of the display panel may be LCD screens.

The kiosk can also include a base . The base may be a support platform that positions the display panel at a comfortable viewing height for the user. In some implementations the base may be made taller or shorter to accommodate smaller or larger kiosks . For example the body of a first kiosk may be taller to accommodate more helmets. The base for this first example kiosk may be shorter such that the display panel remains at an appropriate viewing height for the user and such that the overall height of the kiosk is not too high. As described above the kiosk may include a set of batteries to power the kiosk . In some implementations the set of batteries may be stored in the base . In some embodiments the base may include storage for the returned helmets. Counter weights may be stored in the base to ensure the kiosk is not top heavy. In some implementations the set of batteries may act as the counter weights. The base may be secured to a sidewalk or other physical structure such that the kiosk cannot be stolen or improperly moved. In some implementations the base can be configured to couple with a bike share system kiosk.

The kiosk can also include a plurality of vertical rods . The rods can each store a plurality of helmets in a vertical stacking arrangement. The vertical stacking arrangement can be an efficient packing arrangement of the helmets that enables the kiosk to store a large number of helmets. Each rod is part of the dispensing unit of the kiosk . The dispensing unit can hold between 3 and 15 rods in compartment depending on the capacity needs of the kiosk . The kiosk illustrated in is configured to hold 5 rods . Each rod includes a release mechanism that is configured to release one helmet at a time. In some implementations the capacity of the kiosk can be increased by adding additional rods and or by elongating the rods such that they may hold more helmets. In some implementations the size of the compartment is increased to accommodate more or longer rods . The helmets are vertically stacked on the rods by sliding the rods through a vent hole in each of the helmets. In a vertical stacking arrangement the helmet on the bottom of the stack is held in place by the release mechanism. The other helmets sit atop e.g. are stacked on the helmet immediately below the particular helmet in the vertical arrangement. When the helmet at the bottom of the stack is released each of the helmets in the vertical arrangement fall down one slot and the helmet now at the bottom of the rod is caught and held in place by the release mechanism. In some implementations each of the rods are configured to hold between 5 and 15 helmets.

The kiosk can also include a dispensing and return drawer . The drawer may be designed to accept the helmets associated with the kiosk but make it difficult to place items other than the approved helmets into the drawer . For example the drawer may be designed with a grated bottom such that trash and other debris cannot easily be placed in the drawer . In some embodiments drawer may be configured such that a helmet must be positioned in a predetermined manner to be accepted by the drawer . For example the drawer may be configured such that a helmet must be placed right side up and facing forward before it can be placed in the drawer . Aligning the helmet in a predetermined fashion in the return drawer may facilitate the return process in some implementations. In some implementations the drawer may be configured for both the dispensing and return of helmets. In other implementations the kiosk may include a first drawer for dispensing helmets and a second drawer for the return of helmets.

The transaction panel may also include the credit card reader . In some embodiments the credit card reader may be configured to read any type of magnetic stripped card for example a credit card or a membership card associated with the kiosk . The transaction panel may also include a radio frequency identification RFID module not pictured . The RFID module may allow users may check out or in helmets from the kiosk by using an RFID enabled card or fob. The electronics of the transaction panel may also house the controller and the communications module for the kiosk .

As set for the above the method can include providing a kiosk step . The kiosk can be similar to the above described kiosk in . The kiosk can include an interface to receive a request for a helmet. The interface can be part of the above described transaction panel with a display where the user can enter a request for a helmet. In some implementations the request may be received from a bike share program. For example a user may rent a bike from a bike share program. When renting the bike the bike share program kiosk may ask the user if the user would also like to include the rental of a helmet. If the user decides to also rent a helmet the bike share program may send a request to the kiosk to initial a helmet rental. In another example a user may request a helmet from the kiosk using a mobile phone. For example when at the kiosk the user may visit a webpage associated with the kiosk on the user s mobile phone. Using the website the user may request a helmet. As described above the helmet can store a plurality of helmets for rental and also receive helmets after the rental period is over. The helmets may be stored in a vertical arrangement on one or more rods within the dispensing system.

At step the kiosk can determine to dispense the helmet. The determination to dispense a helmet may be made in response to receiving the request in step . In some implementations the determination is made responsive to an authorization. For example the user may be a member of a subscription service that allows the user to rent a predetermined number of helmets each month. At a kiosk the user may request a helmet the controller of the kiosk may check with the server to determine if the user s subscription is still active before dispensing the helmet. In another example the authorization may be given responsive to the successful charging of a user s payment system e.g. credit card by the payment system .

At step the controller of the kiosk may then transmit a signal to release a helmet. Responsive to determining that a helmet should be released the controller can send a signal to the dispensing unit that then controls the release mechanism of a rod to release a helmet. The signal may be an electrical signal that activates or causes the activation of a release mechanism in one of the rods. For example the signal may be an electrical signal that throws a relay powering a solenoid coupled with the release mechanism. In other implementations the signal may be an electrical signal that includes digital information such as from which rod the helmet may be released. The signal may be received by a controller in the dispensing unit that interprets the digital information in the signal and activates a release mechanism as instructed by the signal. In some implementations the signal to release a helmet may arrive at the release mechanism having originated with a server or bike share program. For example the kiosk may have an API that enables a bike share program to interface with and control the kiosk.

At step the kiosk may then release the helmet to the user. The signal may trigger a release mechanism of one of the rods to release a helmet. In some implementations the rods include a staging area where the helmets are placed prior to release. In some implementations the helmet may include an RFID chip that can be scanned by the dispensing unit to enable the kiosk to track and inventory the helmet. In other implementations the kiosk may determine which helmet was released by knowing the order of the helmets on each of the rods. For example kiosk may know that rod A contains helmets 1 4 with helmet 4 being on the bottom of the vertically stacked arrangement. Accordingly when the next helmet is released from rod A the kiosk will know that it is helmet 4 that is released.

In some implementations the method can also include the kiosk transmitting via the communications module an indication to the server that the helmet was successfully released. Responsive to this indication the server may remove the released helmet from the kiosk s inventory. The kiosk may also notify the server when a helmet is returned to the kiosk. Upon a predetermined number of helmets have been rented or the kiosk or server determines the kiosk s inventory is low a notification may be sent from the server to a technician that the kiosk s inventory is low and that the kiosk should be refilled with helmets. The method may also include the server or kiosk notifying a technician that the kiosk s return system is becoming full and should be emptied so the kiosk may continue to accept helmets.

The method may also include receiving the helmet from a user. When a user returns a helmet the user may check the helmet into the kiosk using the display of the transaction panel. In other implementations the helmet may be automatically checked into the kiosk when the user places the helmet in the return drawer. The screen may notify the user of the length of time the helmet was rented and the cost for having rented the helmet. Responsive to a user returning the helmet the kiosk may print the user a receipt with an internal receipt printer. In some embodiments the kiosk may email the user a receipt via its communications module and the server.

The method can also include checking the structural integrity of the helmet. In some embodiments checking the integrity of the helmets may be automated and or done by human inspection. In some embodiments the automated system may use non destructive testing to determine if the helmet is structurally sound and or damaged. The non destructive testing methods may include at least one of resonance testing and computer vision analyses in both the visual and non visual spectrum e.g. infrared and x ray . For example the automated system may include a system that photographs the helmets and uses computer vision to find cracks scuffs and or vandalism. In some embodiment the system may send the helmet for human inspection if the automated system detects a fault in the helmet.

The method can also include cleaning the helmet. In some embodiments the helmets may be heat sterilized. In other embodiments the helmets may be sterilized with an ethylene oxide sterilizer. In some embodiments the helmets are sanitized with disinfectants such as but not limited to antimicrobial agents alcohols and other cleaning agents. In some implementations the check of the helmet s structural integrity or the cleaning of the helmet may be conducted onsite and automatically by the kiosk .

Prior to discussing specific embodiments of the present solution it may be helpful to describe aspects of the operating environment as well as associated system components e.g. hardware elements in connection with the methods and systems described herein. Referring to an embodiment of a network environment is depicted. In brief overview the network environment includes one or more clients also generally referred to as local machine s client s client node s client machine s client computer s client device s endpoint s or endpoint node s in communication with one or more servers also generally referred to as server s node or remote machine s via one or more networks . In some embodiments a client has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to resources provided by a server and as a server providing access to hosted resources for other clients 

Although shows a network between the clients and the servers the clients and the servers may be on the same network . In some embodiments there are multiple networks between the clients and the servers . In one of these embodiments a network not shown may be a private network and a network may be a public network. In another of these embodiments a network may be a private network and a network a public network. In still another of these embodiments networks and may both be private networks.

The network may be connected via wired or wireless links Wired links may include Digital Subscriber Line DSL coaxial cable lines or optical fiber lines. The wireless links may include BLUETOOTH Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX an infrared channel or satellite band. The wireless links may also include any cellular network standards used to communicate among mobile devices including standards that qualify as 1G 2G 3G or 4G. The network standards may qualify as one or more generation of mobile telecommunication standards by fulfilling a specification or standards such as the specifications maintained by International Telecommunication Union. The 3G standards for example may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 specification and the 4G standards may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced specification. Examples of cellular network standards include AMPS GSM GPRS UMTS LTE LTE Advanced Mobile WiMAX and WiMAX Advanced. Cellular network standards may use various channel access methods e.g. FDMA TDMA CDMA or SDMA. In some embodiments different types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards. In other embodiments the same types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards.

The network may be any type and or form of network. The geographical scope of the network may vary widely and the network can be a body area network BAN a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN e.g. Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet. The topology of the network may be of any form and may include e.g. any of the following point to point bus star ring mesh or tree. The network may be an overlay network which is virtual and sits on top of one or more layers of other networks . The network may be of any such network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein. The network may utilize different techniques and layers or stacks of protocols including e.g. the Ethernet protocol the internet protocol suite TCP IP the ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode technique the SONET Synchronous Optical Networking protocol or the SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy protocol. The TCP IP internet protocol suite may include application layer transport layer internet layer including e.g. IPv6 or the link layer. The network may be a type of a broadcast network a telecommunications network a data communication network or a computer network.

In some embodiments the system may include multiple logically grouped servers . In one of these embodiments the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm or a machine farm . In another of these embodiments the servers may be geographically dispersed. In other embodiments a machine farm may be administered as a single entity. In still other embodiments the machine farm includes a plurality of machine farms . The servers within each machine farm can be heterogeneous one or more of the servers or machines can operate according to one type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS NT manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. while one or more of the other servers can operate on according to another type of operating system platform e.g. Unix Linux or Mac OS X .

In one embodiment servers in the machine farm may be stored in high density rack systems along with associated storage systems and located in an enterprise data center. In this embodiment consolidating the servers in this way may improve system manageability data security the physical security of the system and system performance by locating servers and high performance storage systems on localized high performance networks. Centralizing the servers and storage systems and coupling them with advanced system management tools allows more efficient use of server resources.

The servers of each machine farm do not need to be physically proximate to another server in the same machine farm . Thus the group of servers logically grouped as a machine farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or a metropolitan area network MAN connection. For example a machine farm may include servers physically located in different continents or different regions of a continent country state city campus or room. Data transmission speeds between servers in the machine farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection. Additionally a heterogeneous machine farm may include one or more servers operating according to a type of operating system while one or more other servers execute one or more types of hypervisors rather than operating systems. In these embodiments hypervisors may be used to emulate virtual hardware partition physical hardware virtualize physical hardware and execute virtual machines that provide access to computing environments allowing multiple operating systems to run concurrently on a host computer. Native hypervisors may run directly on the host computer.

Hypervisors may include VMware ESX ESXi manufactured by VMWare Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. the Xen hypervisor an open source product whose development is overseen by Citrix Systems Inc. the HYPER V hypervisors provided by Microsoft or others. Hosted hypervisors may run within an operating system on a second software level. Examples of hosted hypervisors may include VMware Workstation and VIRTUALBOX.

Management of the machine farm may be de centralized. For example one or more servers may comprise components subsystems and modules to support one or more management services for the machine farm . In one of these embodiments one or more servers provide functionality for management of dynamic data including techniques for handling failover data replication and increasing the robustness of the machine farm . Each server may communicate with a persistent store and in some embodiments with a dynamic store.

Server may be a file server application server web server proxy server appliance network appliance gateway gateway server virtualization server deployment server SSL VPN server or firewall. In one embodiment the server may be referred to as a remote machine or a node. In another embodiment a plurality of nodes may be in the path between any two communicating servers.

Referring to a cloud computing environment is depicted. A cloud computing environment may provide client with one or more resources provided by a network environment. The cloud computing environment may include one or more clients in communication with the cloud over one or more networks . Clients may include e.g. thick clients thin clients and zero clients. A thick client may provide at least some functionality even when disconnected from the cloud or servers . A thin client or a zero client may depend on the connection to the cloud or server to provide functionality. A zero client may depend on the cloud or other networks or servers to retrieve operating system data for the client device. The cloud may include back end platforms e.g. servers storage server farms or data centers.

The cloud may be public private or hybrid. Public clouds may include public servers that are maintained by third parties to the clients or the owners of the clients. The servers may be located off site in remote geographical locations as disclosed above or otherwise. Public clouds may be connected to the servers over a public network. Private clouds may include private servers that are physically maintained by clients or owners of clients.

Private clouds may be connected to the servers over a private network . Hybrid clouds may include both the private and public networks and servers .

The cloud may also include a cloud based delivery e.g. Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS . IaaS may refer to a user renting the use of infrastructure resources that are needed during a specified time period.

IaaS providers may offer storage networking servers or virtualization resources from large pools allowing the users to quickly scale up by accessing more resources as needed. Examples of IaaS include AMAZON WEB SERVICES provided by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. RACKSPACE CLOUD provided by Rackspace US Inc. of San Antonio Tex. Google Compute Engine provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. or RIGHTSCALE provided by RightScale Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. PaaS providers may offer functionality provided by IaaS including e.g. storage networking servers or virtualization as well as additional resources such as e.g. the operating system middleware or runtime resources. Examples of PaaS include WINDOWS AZURE provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Google App Engine provided by Google Inc. and HEROKU provided by Heroku Inc. of San Francisco Calif. SaaS providers may offer the resources that PaaS provides including storage networking servers virtualization operating system middleware or runtime resources. In some embodiments SaaS providers may offer additional resources including e.g. data and application resources. Examples of SaaS include GOOGLE APPS provided by Google Inc. SALESFORCE provided by Salesforce.com Inc. of San Francisco Calif. or OFFICE 365 provided by Microsoft Corporation. Examples of SaaS may also include data storage providers e.g. DROPBOX provided by Dropbox Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Microsoft SKYDRIVE provided by Microsoft Corporation Google Drive provided by Google Inc. or Apple ICLOUD provided by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif.

Clients may access IaaS resources with one or more IaaS standards including e.g. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC2 Open Cloud Computing Interface OCCI Cloud Infrastructure Management Interface CIMI or OpenStack standards. Some IaaS standards may allow clients access to resources over HTTP and may use Representational State Transfer REST protocol or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . Clients may access PaaS resources with different PaaS interfaces. Some PaaS interfaces use HTTP packages standard Java APIs JavaMail API Java Data Objects JDO Java Persistence API JPA Python APIs web integration APIs for different programming languages including e.g. Rack for Ruby WSGI for Python or PSGI for Perl or other APIs that may be built on REST HTTP XML or other protocols. Clients may access SaaS resources through the use of web based user interfaces provided by a web browser e.g. GOOGLE CHROME Microsoft INTERNET EXPLORER or Mozilla Firefox provided by Mozilla Foundation of Mountain View Calif. . Clients may also access SaaS resources through smartphone or tablet applications including e.g. Salesforce Sales Cloud or Google Drive app. Clients may also access SaaS resources through the client operating system including e.g. Windows file system for DROPBOX.

In some embodiments access to IaaS PaaS or SaaS resources may be authenticated. For example a server or authentication server may authenticate a user via security certificates HTTPS or API keys. API keys may include various encryption standards such as e.g. Advanced Encryption Standard AES . Data resources may be sent over Transport Layer Security TLS or Secure Sockets Layer SSL .

The client and server may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device e.g. a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. depict block diagrams of a computing device useful for practicing an embodiment of the client or a server . As shown in each computing device includes a central processing unit and a main memory unit . As shown in a computing device may include a storage device an installation device a network interface an I O controller display devices a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse. The storage device may include without limitation an operating system software and software for the backend server of a helmet rental kiosk. As shown in each computing device may also include additional optional elements e.g. a memory port a bridge one or more input output devices generally referred to using reference numeral and a cache memory in communication with the central processing unit .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit e.g. those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. the ARM processor and TEGRA system on a chip SoC manufactured by Nvidia of Santa Clara Calif. the POWER7 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein. The central processing unit may utilize instruction level parallelism thread level parallelism different levels of cache and multi core processors. A multi core processor may include two or more processing units on a single computing component. Examples of a multi core processors include the AMD PHENOM IIX2 INTEL CORE i5 and INTEL CORE i7.

Main memory unit may include one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor . Main memory unit may be volatile and faster than storage memory. Main memory units may be Dynamic random access memory DRAM or any variants including static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Single Data Rate Synchronous DRAM SDR SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Extreme Data Rate DRAM XDR DRAM . In some embodiments the main memory or the storage may be non volatile e.g. non volatile read access memory NVRAM flash memory non volatile static RAM nvSRAM Ferroelectric RAM FeRAM Magnetoresistive RAM MRAM Phase change memory PRAM conductive bridging RAM CBRAM Silicon Oxide Nitride Oxide Silicon SONOS Resistive RAM RRAM Racetrack Nano RAM NRAM or Millipede memory. The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices may include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs touchpads touch mice multi touch touchpads and touch mice microphones multi array microphones drawing tablets cameras single lens reflex camera SLR digital SLR DSLR CMOS sensors accelerometers infrared optical sensors pressure sensors magnetometer sensors angular rate sensors depth sensors proximity sensors ambient light sensors gyroscopic sensors or other sensors. Output devices may include video displays graphical displays speakers headphones inkjet printers laser printers and 3D printers.

Devices may include a combination of multiple input or output devices including e.g. Microsoft KINECT Nintendo Wiimote for the WII Nintendo WII U GAMEPAD or Apple IPHONE. Some devices allow gesture recognition inputs through combining some of the inputs and outputs. Some devices provides for facial recognition which may be utilized as an input for different purposes including authentication and other commands. Some devices provides for voice recognition and inputs including e.g. Microsoft KINECT SIRI for IPHONE by Apple Google Now or Google Voice Search.

Additional devices have both input and output capabilities including e.g. haptic feedback devices touchscreen displays or multi touch displays. Touchscreen multi touch displays touchpads touch mice or other touch sensing devices may use different technologies to sense touch including e.g. capacitive surface capacitive projected capacitive touch PCT in cell capacitive resistive infrared waveguide dispersive signal touch DST in cell optical surface acoustic wave SAW bending wave touch BWT or force based sensing technologies. Some multi touch devices may allow two or more contact points with the surface allowing advanced functionality including e.g. pinch spread rotate scroll or other gestures. Some touchscreen devices including e.g. Microsoft PIXELSENSE or Multi Touch Collaboration Wall may have larger surfaces such as on a table top or on a wall and may also interact with other electronic devices. Some I O devices display devices or group of devices may be augment reality devices. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections not shown to receive handheld USB storage devices. In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus e.g. a USB bus a SCSI bus a FireWire bus an Ethernet bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus a Fibre Channel bus or a Thunderbolt bus.

In some embodiments display devices may be connected to I O controller . Display devices may include e.g. liquid crystal displays LCD thin film transistor LCD TFT LCD blue phase LCD electronic papers e ink displays flexile displays light emitting diode displays LED digital light processing DLP displays liquid crystal on silicon LCOS displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED displays liquid crystal laser displays time multiplexed optical shutter TMOS displays or 3D displays. Examples of 3D displays may use e.g. stereoscopy polarization filters active shutters or autostereoscopy. Display devices may also be a head mounted display HMD . In some embodiments display devices or the corresponding I O controllers may be controlled through or have hardware support for OPENGL or DIRECTX API or other graphics libraries.

In some embodiments the computing device may include or connect to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may include any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may include multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices or connected to the computing device via the network . In some embodiments software may be designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . For example in one embodiment an Apple iPad may connect to a computing device and use the display of the device as an additional display screen that may be used as an extended desktop. One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

Referring again to the computing device may comprise a storage device e.g. one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system or other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the software for the experiment tracker system. Examples of storage device include e.g. hard disk drive HDD optical drive including CD drive DVD drive or BLU RAY drive solid state drive SSD USB flash drive or any other device suitable for storing data. Some storage devices may include multiple volatile and non volatile memories including e.g. solid state hybrid drives that combine hard disks with solid state cache. Some storage device may be non volatile mutable or read only. Some storage device may be internal and connect to the computing device via a bus . Some storage device may be external and connect to the computing device via a I O device that provides an external bus. Some storage device may connect to the computing device via the network interface over a network including e.g. the Remote Disk for MACBOOK AIR by Apple. Some client devices may not require a non volatile storage device and may be thin clients or zero clients . Some storage device may also be used as a installation device and may be suitable for installing software and programs. Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD e.g. KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Client device may also install software or application from an application distribution platform. Examples of application distribution platforms include the App Store for iOS provided by Apple Inc. the Mac App Store provided by Apple Inc. GOOGLE PLAY for Android OS provided by Google Inc. Chrome Webstore for CHROME OS provided by Google Inc. and Amazon Appstore for Android OS and KINDLE FIRE provided by Amazon.com Inc. An application distribution platform may facilitate installation of software on a client device . An application distribution platform may include a repository of applications on a server or a cloud which the clients may access over a network . An application distribution platform may include application developed and provided by various developers. A user of a client device may select purchase and or download an application via the application distribution platform.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to the network through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 Gigabit Ethernet Infiniband broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM Gigabit Ethernet Ethernet over SONET ADSL VDSL BPON GPON fiber optical including FiOS wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. Connections can be established using a variety of communication protocols e.g. TCP IP Ethernet ARCNET SONET SDH Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IEEE 802.11E b g n ac CDMA GSM WiMax and direct asynchronous connections . In one embodiment the computing device communicates with other computing devices via any type and or form of gateway or tunneling protocol e.g. Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS or the Citrix Gateway Protocol manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card EXPRESSCARD network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

A computing device of the sort depicted in may operate under the control of an operating system which controls scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the MAC OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include but are not limited to WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS Server 2012 WINDOWS CE WINDOWS Phone WINDOWS XP WINDOWS VISTA and WINDOWS 7 WINDOWS RT and WINDOWS 8 all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MAC OS and iOS manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and Linux a freely available operating system e.g. Linux Mint distribution distro or Ubuntu distributed by Canonical Ltd. of London United Kingom or Unix or other Unix like derivative operating systems and Android designed by Google of Mountain View Calif. among others. Some operating systems including e.g. the CHROME OS by Google may be used on zero clients or thin clients including e.g. CHROMEBOOKS.

The computer system can be any workstation telephone desktop computer laptop or notebook computer netbook ULTRABOOK tablet server handheld computer mobile telephone smartphone or other portable telecommunications device media playing device a gaming system mobile computing device or any other type and or form of computing telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication. The computer system has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein. In some embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. The Samsung GALAXY smartphones e.g. operate under the control of Android operating system developed by Google Inc. GALAXY smartphones receive input via a touch interface.

In some embodiments the computing device is a gaming system. For example the computer system may comprise a PLAYSTATION 3 or PERSONAL PLAYSTATION PORTABLE PSP or a PLAYSTATION VITA device manufactured by the Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan a NINTENDO DS NINTENDO 3DS NINTENDO WII or a NINTENDO WII U device manufactured by Nintendo Co. Ltd. of Kyoto Japan an XBOX 360 device manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

In some embodiments the computing device is a digital audio player such as the Apple IPOD IPOD Touch and IPOD NANO lines of devices manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. Some digital audio players may have other functionality including e.g. a gaming system or any functionality made available by an application from a digital application distribution platform. For example the IPOD Touch may access the Apple App Store. In some embodiments the computing device is a portable media player or digital audio player supporting file formats including but not limited to MP3 WAV M4A AAC WMA Protected AAC RIFF Audible audiobook Apple Lossless audio file formats and .mov .m4v and .mp4 MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 4 AVC video file formats.

In some embodiments the computing device is a tablet e.g. the IPAD line of devices by Apple GALAXY TAB family of devices by Samsung or KINDLE FIRE by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. In other embodiments the computing device is a eBook reader e.g. the KINDLE family of devices by Amazon.com or NOOK family of devices by Barnes Noble Inc. of New York City N.Y.

In some embodiments the communications device includes a combination of devices e.g. a smartphone combined with a digital audio player or portable media player. For example one of these embodiments is a smartphone e.g. the IPHONE family of smartphones manufactured by Apple Inc. a Samsung GALAXY family of smartphones manufactured by Samsung Inc or a Motorola DROID family of smartphones. In yet another embodiment the communications device is a laptop or desktop computer equipped with a web browser and a microphone and speaker system e.g. a telephony headset. In these embodiments the communications devices are web enabled and can receive and initiate phone calls. In some embodiments a laptop or desktop computer is also equipped with a webcam or other video capture device that enables video chat and video call.

In some embodiments the status of one or more machines in the network is monitored generally as part of network management. In one of these embodiments the status of a machine may include an identification of load information e.g. the number of processes on the machine CPU and memory utilization of port information e.g. the number of available communication ports and the port addresses or of session status e.g. the duration and type of processes and whether a process is active or idle . In another of these embodiments this information may be identified by a plurality of metrics and the plurality of metrics can be applied at least in part towards decisions in load distribution network traffic management and network failure recovery as well as any aspects of operations of the present solution described herein. Aspects of the operating environments and components described above will become apparent in the context of the systems and methods disclosed herein.

Having now described some illustrative implementations and embodiments it is apparent that the foregoing is illustrative and not limiting having been presented by way of example. In particular although many of the examples presented herein involve specific combinations of method acts or system elements those acts and those elements may be combined in other ways to accomplish the same objectives. Acts elements and features discussed only in connection with one embodiment are not intended to be excluded from a similar role in other implementations or embodiments.

The phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising having containing involving characterized by characterized in that and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter equivalents thereof and additional items as well as alternate embodiments consisting of the items listed thereafter exclusively. In one embodiment the systems and methods described herein consist of one each combination of more than one or all of the described elements acts or components.

Any references to embodiments or elements or acts of the systems and methods herein referred to in the singular may also embrace embodiments including a plurality of these elements and any references in plural to any embodiment or element or act herein may also embrace embodiments including only a single element. References in the singular or plural form are not intended to limit the presently disclosed systems or methods their components acts or elements to single or plural configurations. References to any act or element being based on any information act or element may include embodiments where the act or element is based at least in part on any information act or element.

Any implementation disclosed herein may be combined with any other implementation or embodiment and references to an implementation some implementations an alternate implementation various implementation one implementation or the like are not necessarily mutually exclusive and are intended to indicate that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one implementation or embodiment. Such terms as used herein are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Any embodiment may be combined with any other embodiment inclusively or exclusively in any manner consistent with the aspects and embodiments disclosed herein.

References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms.

Where technical features in the drawings detailed description or any claim are followed by reference signs the reference signs have been included for the sole purpose of increasing the intelligibility of the drawings detailed description and claims. Accordingly neither the reference signs nor their absence have any limiting effect on the scope of any claim elements.

The systems and methods described herein may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the characteristics thereof. For example the criteria combination indicators and queries can be provided in Boolean form or other languages tree structures or contextual query languages or grammar forms. Content can be identified for display on web pages or with other information resources such as websites domain names or uniform resource locators. Further identifying content for display with web pages or other information resources can include identifying content as being suitable for display e.g. as a candidate for display with the information resource. The suitable content can be evaluated against other suitable content e.g. in an auction with a winning content item selected from the auction and provided for display with a rendering of a web page or other information resource. The foregoing embodiments are illustrative rather than limiting of the described systems and methods. Scope of the systems and methods described herein is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description and changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are embraced therein.

