---

title: Systems and methods to determine the name of a physical business location visited by a user of a wireless device based on location information and the time of day
abstract: Methods and systems that ascertain and record the specific named location of a user of a wireless device. A geographic location of a mobile device based on a geographic location sensor is received. A selection of the likely locations that may have been visited is provided to the wireless device based on location data produced at similar days (e.g., only Saturday, only every other week, monthly), and/or at similar times (e.g., only around 5:00 PM, between 3:00 PM and 6:00 PM, after sunset, before high-noon, before a particular stock market opens in the time zone of the user, etc.), or any combination. A verification of the specific named location of the user is received from the wireless device based on the provided selection of locations. The location history is updated with, for example, the location of the wireless device, the specific named location visited, and time of day information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892126&OS=08892126&RS=08892126
owner: Enhanced Geographic LLC
number: 08892126
owner_city: Tempe
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140421
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 748 519 filed Jan. 23 2013 which is a continuation U.S. application Ser. No. 13 556 195 filed Jul. 23 2012 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 437 776 on May 7 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 049 364 filed Mar. 16 2008 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 229 458 on Jul. 24 2012 which claims the benefit of the filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 910 662 filed Apr. 8 2007.

Other related applications include U.S. application Ser. Nos. 12 951 040 13 107 932 13 555 202 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 364 171 on Jan. 29 2013 Ser. No. 13 556 188 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 447 331 on May 21 2013 Ser. No. 13 675 882 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 566 236 on Oct. 22 2013 Ser. No. 13 693 054 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 626 194 on Jan. 7 2014 Ser. No. 13 740 218 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 515 459 on Aug. 20 2013 Ser. No. 13 843 879 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 559 977 on Oct. 15 2013 Ser. No. 13 843 915 and Ser. No. 14 205 294. All of the above referenced Applications and Patents are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention generally relates to methods and systems that generate information associated with geographic locations targeted content delivery targeted search results navigation systems mobile conversion tracking and location based services on mobile devices. More specifically this invention relates to methods and systems for processing and reporting mobile location data in order to provide targeted content conversion tracking and other information and services to businesses and users of mobile devices. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention see references 1 through 16 and 36 through 40 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

There is significant benefit provided by methods and systems that provide an improved targeted advertising system that is able to deliver content to a mobile audience that may subsequently conveniently visit the advertiser s business. The methods and systems also provide feedback to advertisers including conversion tracking of mobile advertisements that result in sales at their retail locations. Furthermore significant benefit is also provided by methods and systems of paying via mobile phones that are coupled to mobile advertisement systems and systems that track conversions.

There is significant benefit provided by methods and systems that provide a better display of content on a mobile device that exploits the form factor and features of the mobile device. Current targeted content efforts have not taken advantage of all the features mobile devices have to offer. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention see reference 5 below herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

There is significant benefit provided by methods and systems that provide search results and targeted content based upon the current course of the user instead of simply the radial distance from the user. There is also significant benefit provided by methods and systems that provide up to date cartographic information. For purposes of illustration and without limitation when a car is traveling north there may be a gas station one mile south but it is better to remain on course and visit a different gas station three miles ahead of the current location and along the desired route.

Significant benefit is provided by a content targeting methods and systems usable with mobile devices that not only search for results closest to the current location of the mobile device but also take into account other information in order to provide more useful results for the user. The methods and systems analyze current or historical locations speeds headings of the mobile device or combinations thereof as recorded by the device by a remote system or both and deliver search result information including content from advertisers interested in targeting consumers in the areas the consumer typically travels. Thus in one application if a consumer usually travels along a given route to and from work where a specific advertiser owns a business it would be desirable if the content produced by the advertiser would be more likely to reach the consumer than another consumer that never passes by any business locations of the advertiser. In another application targeted content for businesses on the right hand side of the road may have preference over targeted content on the left hand side of the road in the United States since it may be easier to make a right hand turn than a left hand turn. If the content is something that the targeted consumer is interested in they are more likely to respond to the content and visit the business location of the advertiser because it is convenient for them to stop at the business location based on the flow of automobile traffic. In forms of the invention with integrated navigation features the current or any historical route may be used to provide results for businesses that are easily accessible from the current route or other likely routes. Furthermore the types of businesses along the route that the mobile device is currently on or usually takes the types of businesses that the mobile device appears to visit based on past location and other data the types of targeted content that the device has responded to preferences and favored keywords of the user historical search queries from the mobile device or another associated device or account on a remote system reminder flags set from the mobile device or another associated device or account on a remote system and preferences of advertisers may also be used to more effectively target content for mobile devices. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention see references 1 2 and 17 through 35 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Significant benefit is provided by a content targeting methods and systems usable with mobile devices that provide feedback to the advertisers especially those advertisers that have brick and mortar businesses to help them judge the effectiveness of their targeted content. The effectiveness of a business advertising effort may be measured by determining with regard to a user of a device that has received targeted content one or more of whether the user visits a business location of a content producer after their content has been delivered to the device the time spent at the location and how much money was spent at the business by that user especially in the case where the user pays through an online payment service utilizing the mobile device .

There is significant benefit provided by methods and systems that facilitate sharing of location information with friends family acquaintances and the general public. These methods and systems may provide personal information or may anonomyze the data depending on privacy settings and the particular application. These methods and systems help a user of the system locate friends and family members and provide up to date information about the popularity or business of business locations. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention see reference 50 below herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

There is significant benefit provided by improved GPS functionality in these devices in order to better provide location based services and to enable reliable location based services indoors. The methods and systems incorporate Bluetooth Near Field Radios such as RFID Wi Fi WiMax 700 MHz Radios GPS or combinations thereof. The methods and systems may incorporate more accurate GPS chipsets such as the SIRF Star III or even more accurate GPS chipsets A GPS cell tower triangulation terrestrial FM or TV signals altimeters pressure sensors or a combination thereof in addition to other location determination and sensing technologies in conjunction with one another. To further improve the accuracy filtering techniques may be employed e.g. a Kalman filter etc. . To shorten and simplify the description of the invention see references 41 through 64 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Significant benefit is provided by methods and systems that report more accurate addresses business names and other information that corresponds to the location reported by mobile devices. Current location based services simply show a pinpoint on a map or an approximate street address that does not correspond to the actual location inside of a business location. Street addresses typically correspond to locations along the road while the location information from the cellular phone usually indicates a location set back from the road representing the user s actual location inside of a business location. Other reasons why street address information may be inaccurate is that the geocoding algorithms that calculate the street address are incorrect at times or they cannot account for all of the variations that must occur in the addressing scheme to account for various city layouts. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention refer to references 17 through 28 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Significant benefit is provided by navigation software that not only takes into account current traffic conditions in providing routes but methods and systems that are able to determine how many people are taking any given route and orchestrate traffic by distributing travelers judiciously across all available streets to avoid congestion on the most well known paths. The methods and systems provide traffic information enabling users to avoid traffic congestion. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention refer to references 17 through 28 65 through 69 and 131 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Significant benefit is provided by an incentive system to entice consumers to go out of their way to visit the business location of an advertiser. The methods and systems provide digital coupon delivery usable with mobile devices. When the advertising system sends a targeted advertisement to a consumer it may be beneficial to provide an incentive in the form of a coupon or discount valid at the advertiser s place of business. The type or value of the discount may be tied to the amount of effort that is required by the consumer to visit the advertiser s business from the current course of travel. The incentive may additionally or alternatively be subject to other conditions imposed by the advertising system or the advertiser.

There is significant benefit provided by methods and systems that entice users to visit business locations where there is relatively little effort on the part of the customer or the business to implement the incentive mechanism. The methods and systems may assign a value to the coupon related to the effort that would be required for the potential customer to get to the store from their current location and route. Furthermore the methods and systems may automatically apply the coupon to the purchase price or they may provide a simple mechanism for application of the coupon. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention see references 39 40 and 130 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Significant benefit is provided by advertising methods and systems that include one or more of an interface for advertisers to produce or input their targeted content into an advertising system a database that contains business locations and optionally other information such as phone numbers and business classifications a secure database that contains tracking information for mobile devices and other user information a search engine a navigation or mapping system and a software package with a suitable user interface for displaying location based targeted content on mobile devises. Using these and other elements as building blocks any combination systems within the spirit of the invention may be put into place. To shorten and simplify the description of the invention refer to references 69 through 83 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Significant benefit is provided by methods and systems that encourage mobile device users to embrace the incredibly useful cell phone tracking features for their benefit. Despite the utility that this invention is provides there is likely to be at least some resistance and reluctance to implement the invention due to what people perceive to be privacy concerns. Many people and organizations such as the Electronic Freedom Foundation are very reluctant to have their search habits email website viewing habits and other personal information recorded while they browse the internet. This is true even if the information is not associated with any personal information. In order for increased privacy on the internet some people even go as far as to disable very helpful and non threatening features of web browsers such as cookies. Since many people are overly cautious of their internet location being known they are even more resistant to their physical location known to a system that is able to analyze the data. Furthermore there have been numerous recent court cases over the use of cell phone tracking To shorten and simplify the description of the invention see references 84 through 86 below herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

So as to reduce the complexity and length of the Detailed Specification and to fully establish the state of the art in certain areas of technology Applicant herein expressly incorporates by reference all of the following materials identified in each numbered paragraph below. The incorporated materials are not necessarily prior art and Applicant expressly reserves the right to swear behind any of the incorporated materials. Furthermore the full text of non patent literature incorporated by reference below may be included in the file wrapper of this application.

Applicant believes that the material incorporated above is non essential in accordance with 37 CFR 1.57 because it is referred to for purposes of indicating the background of the invention or illustrating the state of the art. However if the Examiner believes that any of the above incorporated material constitutes essential material within the meaning of 37 CFR 1.57 c 1 3 applicant will amend the specification to expressly recite the essential material that is incorporated by reference as allowed by the applicable rules.

The present invention provides among other things methods and systems to obtain data relating to location from mobile devices processing this data sending content to a mobile device based at least in part on location data integration of location data associated with a mobile device with web based applications accessed with a standard computer or laptop integration of location data with conversion tracking systems integration of location data with customer relationship management systems and systems to determining retail business location performance integration with social uses of location data of mobile devices and integration with navigation uses of location data associated with mobile devices.

It is an object of the invention to provide methods and systems that obtain location information from mobile devices.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that transmit location information to a remote system.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that store location information from mobile devices.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that stream location data in real time.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that store location information and periodically send the location data to a remote system.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that allow the user of the mobile device to selectively enable or disable tracking features.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield location based services to devices without requiring constant tracking of the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield location based services based upon search queries requests for driving directions or dialed phone numbers.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield search results or targeted content for locations along routes that the user plans on taking or has previously taken.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that periodically return location based content based on location data that has been generalized prior to sending the information in order to protect user privacy.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that process location information from mobile devices.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that process location information from a mobile device to determine the business that the user of the mobile device is visiting.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that process location information from a mobile device to determine the businesses that the user of the mobile device visited.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that collect location data from a mobile device and compare this data to business location information to determine specific businesses or types of businesses the user of a mobile device visits.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that collect location data from a mobile device and compare the data to business location information to determine the businesses the user of a mobile device is able to conveniently visit.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that collect location data from many mobile devices and compare the data to business location information to determine what types of businesses the users of the many mobile devices visit.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that process location information from a mobile device to determine the current route of the user of the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that process location information from a mobile device to determine the routes that the user of the mobile device has previously taken.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that process location information from a mobile device to determine the routes that the user of the mobile device prefers to take.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target content based upon the speed of the user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target content based upon the current behavior of the user e.g. driving walking on street walking in shopping center .

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver digital content or advertisements to a user based upon routes or along the routes that the user travels.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver targeted advertisements or content to mobile devices.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver search results advertisements or content to a user based upon locations the user is known to have previously visited.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver digital advertisements or content based entirely or partly on the physical location and speed of the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver digital advertisements or content based entirely or partly on any combination or all of the following characteristics of the mobile device the physical location speed or heading.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver digital advertisements or content based entirely or partly on any combination or all of the following characteristics of the mobile device previous physical locations previous speeds and previous headings.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver route guidance based upon traffic conditions and user preferences and preferred routes.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver search results to a user based upon routes along which the user travels.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display businesses of interest to a user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that inform individuals of nearby businesses they typically visit when they are in unfamiliar areas.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield advertisements formatted based upon the capabilities of the targeted mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target content based upon the route the user of the mobile device typically takes.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target content based upon the route the user of the mobile device is currently taking.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield targeted content based upon the types of businesses along the route the user of the mobile device usually takes.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target advertisements based upon the types of businesses that the user of the mobile device typically visits.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target advertisements based upon the businesses near the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target content based upon the history of content that the user has interacted with.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target content based upon keywords associated with the user of the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that target content based upon the current status of the user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display targeted content on the mobile device differently in varying circumstances.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display targeted content when the mobile device is stationary.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display targeted content when the mobile device is moving.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display targeted content prior to the mobile device passing an entrance to the business location.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display targeted content prior to the mobile device reaching the location of the business location.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display targeted content based on the speed of the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that display targeted content based upon the side of the road the merchant is located on with respect to the heading of the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that trigger events on the mobile device based upon the location.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that track the user of the mobile device after viewing an advertisement to determine if the user visits the business location or makes a purchase.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that are able to assign a value to a targeted coupon.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield coupon values based on the amount of energy a user needs to exert to go respond to the targeted content.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield coupons based upon the side of the road the business is in relation to the direction of the user s travel.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield coupon values based upon the location of the business with respect to the heading of the user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield coupons redeemable with a barcode that is displayed on the mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield coupons redeemable via wireless technologies.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that track recipients of targeted content to determine whether they visit the business location associated with the targeted content.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that verify that a user stops at a business and does not just pass through the business location.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine the length of time a user of the mobile device spends at a particular business location in response to receiving targeted content.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that integrate location based services with search engines.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield location based features when the user is logged into the service on either a computer or a mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that allows a user to flag content for later notification on the mobile device based upon the location of the device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that embed advertisements in web pages that communicate the location information to a remote system.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that integrate targeted content with databases of business inventories.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that search the inventories of stores along the paths that a user of a mobile device has traveled.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that integrate location services with payment services in order to assist with conversion tracking.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that integrate location services with online payment systems.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that integrate location services with credit card processing systems.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine a user response e.g. action or omission to targeted content.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine the amount of money spent at a particular business location by the user of a mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine how much time was spent at a particular business location by the user of a mobile device.

It is another object of the invention to use gathered information that targets advertisements or content.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that report the number of visitors unique visitors or returning visitors to a specific location or to a group of locations e.g. a retail location a chain of locations and a category of businesses in a given period of time.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield advertisers with data that indicates information about mobile devices that were present at the geographic location indicated by an advertiser e.g. the location of their business during a period of time subsequent to the mobile device receiving an advertisement placed by the advertiser.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine if the owner of the mobile devices responded to an advertisement or content by providing input into the mobile device or going to the geographic location indicated by the advertisement or content.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that aggregate and display customer relationship management data.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that report the amount of money spent at a specific location or a group of locations e.g. a retail location a chain of retail locations a category of businesses in a given period of time.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that report the amount of money spent broken down by geographic locations regions or areas in a given period of time.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that forecast earnings or performance of specific business locations groups of locations chains of locations types of locations and geographic areas.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that facilitate social interaction.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that allow family members to locate one another.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield the name of the business at which a family member is currently located.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that allow friends to locate one another.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield a listing of the businesses at which a friend is currently located.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that calculate a commission for generating business for a particular business location.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that allows notifications to be sent to friends and family including the current business location of the user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield a measure of how busy a particular business location is.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield a measure of how busy a number of business locations are.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that deliver targeted advertisements or content to mobile devices and mobile devices that operate as navigation systems.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that learn favored routes of the user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that remember prior routes of the user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield routes by businesses of interest to the user.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that insert intermediate destinations into directions provided by the navigation system.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that integrate navigation systems with fuel and other systems in the automobile.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield route guidance that is organized on a large scale.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that compare many sets of location data from different users to determine traffic conditions.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that integrate location based advertisements with voice communications systems.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that communicate phone numbers that a user dials to a remote system in order to assist with tracking the effectiveness of advertising materials.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that yield content to be sent to the user based on the specific business location they are currently visiting.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that communicate phone numbers that a user dials to a remote system in order to assist with tracking the effectiveness of advertising materials.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine if a viewer of a video advertisement e.g. placed before after or during an online video takes an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine if a viewer of a video advertisement played on a Digital Video Recorder DVR or other digital video playback device e.g. TiVo Apple TV Digital Cable boxes Satellite TV Receivers etc. takes an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine if a user is in proximity to a print advertisement whether it is likely that the user read the print advertisement and if the user performed an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine if a user views a public advertisement e.g. Billboard Sign Poster and takes an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that determine if a user visits a business location through word of mouth advertising e.g. a friend of a user mentioned a particular business location and the user subsequently visits the business location .

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that interface location based services with social networking websites.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that interface location based services with social networking websites by displaying location information on the users profile page e.g. favorite business locations favorite bars favorite restaurants marked locations etc. registering that a user attended an event if their location corresponded to the location of an event during the time the event took place optionally only if they were invited to the event managing location privacy permissions to friends and family or displaying location based advertisements to the user based on their location information.

The above and other objects may be achieved using methods and systems involving targeting content to a user associated with a mobile device. First a data set is obtained including geographic information associated with the mobile device. Then the data set is processed in order to determine at least one likely course of that user. A content result set is obtained that has one or more elements that were selected based upon the likely course that was determined. The content result set is transmitted to the mobile device and at least one of the elements of the content result set is displayed on the mobile device.

The data set that is obtained may include a location a speed and a heading or alternatively the data set may include a planned or tentative course.

The act of processing the data involves first comparing the data set to a collection of other data sets associated with the user and then determining a set of previously traveled courses including at least a most likely course of travel. Alternatively the act of processing may involve comparing the data set to a database of businesses and their locations and then determining a set of likely locations that have previously been visited by the user of the mobile device.

The act of displaying involves listing any number of the elements of the content result set. Alternatively displaying may involve listing any number of the elements of the content result set when the locations associated with the elements are ahead of the user on the likely course of travel. Still further the act of displaying may involve showing any number of the elements of the content result set on the display of the mobile device when the locations associated with the elements are ahead on the likely course of travel and then refreshing the list of visible elements on the display of the mobile device when the location associated with one of the elements is passed or when the likely course of travel changes.

Furthermore the mobile device may be monitored to determine if there is an action or an omission after any of the elements of the content result set are displayed. That is whether a user of the mobile device ignores the content or performs an action on it such as viewing the content or proceeding to a geographic location indicated by the element of the content result set. Then the action or the omission associated with the element of the content result set displayed to the user may be recorded.

The action or the omission may be reported to the advertiser associated with the element of the content result set. This allows the advertiser to gauge the effectiveness of their content and further refine their advertising and marketing strategies.

The above and other objects may be achieved using methods and systems involving determining the extent that targeted content contributes to a consumer visiting a business location. First an element of a content result set is displayed on a screen of a mobile device so that the content is presented to a user of the mobile device. Then the mobile device monitors its geographic position and records whether the geographic location of the mobile device corresponds to a geographic location associated with the element of the content result set. This allows the device to determine if an element of a content result set persuaded the user of the mobile device to respond to the content or advertisement by visiting the business location of the advertiser.

Then the mobile device may be configured to report the information describing whether or not the user responded to the content by going to the geographic location indicated back to the advertiser associated with corresponding element of the content result set. The system may also report the duration or period of time the geographic location of the mobile device corresponded to the geographic location corresponding to the element of the content result set or a business location of the advertiser. This allows advertisers to see the different periods of time people spend at their business locations.

Monitoring performed by the device the system or both provide the location the speed and the heading of the mobile device periodically or combination thereof and then recording information indicating that the mobile device visited the location associated with an element of the content result set if the location of the mobile device is within an area accounting for maximum system error. The system and methods are cognizant of error in location information to assist with avoiding any problems where the system fails to account for a store visit because the location information including the error in the position falls outside the indicated geographic area of the business location associated with the element of the content result set.

The above and other objects may be achieved using methods and systems involving targeting content for a user associated with a mobile device. In one alternative a data set is obtained that contains information pertaining to a mobile device including geographic information associated with the mobile device. Then the data set is processed to determine at least one likely area of travel specific destination or specific destinations. The area of travel is an area that may be represented by a rectangle or another polygon on a map or alternatively the area may simply be a proposed route. Alternatively one or more destinations may be determined and the current geographic location information along with a proposed destination is routed to a routing program to obtain a path of travel. Next a content result set is obtained that contains one or more elements selected based upon at least the likely course or area of travel specific destination or specific destinations so that information pertaining to businesses along the course of travel is available to the user. Any number of these results are displayed on the mobile device at appropriate times e.g. when the user is approaching a business location along a path when a user is walking around a shopping area when the user is driving along a highway when the user performs a search for content or a business when a user requests route guidance not when the user is in a movie theater not when the user is eating dinner not when the user is at work etc. .

After displaying a result the mobile device or a remote system monitors position information to determine if there is an action or an omission and the action or the omission is associated with the element of the content result set displayed to the user recorded and then reported so that the advertiser associated with the element of the content result set may observe the data.

The data set includes a location a speed and a heading but may alternatively or additionally include a planned or tentative course or a planned or tentative destination.

The content result set is associated with an advertiser a geographic location and content however the content may additionally include audio voice music image graphical text hyperlink video application or data information.

The action or the omission may include any of the following. The user is able to save the element for future display or the user may decide to dismiss the element intentionally or ignore the displayed element until it goes away. Alternatively the user may add the geographic location indicated by the element as a destination. Even if the user does not add the geographic location as a destination the act of actually visiting a geographic location associated with the element may be considered an act. Furthermore the system may be integrated with payment systems so that purchasing a product using the payment system is tracked so that conversion tracking is implemented for digital ads and actual visitors to a physical store location.

The above and other objects may be achieved using methods and systems involving collecting and processing location data from many mobile devices. This involves obtaining many data sets each including geographic information associated with one of the many mobile devices. This data is received by a part of the system and then the information including the plurality of data sets is processed in order to determine Customer Relationship Management CRM data for a set business locations. This information may include for purposes of illustration and without limitation the number of visitors a particular business location received in a given period of time. The number of visitors all business locations associated with a particular advertiser received for a given period of time. The number of ad views the number of visits prompted by ad views and the number of sales prompted by ad views. The information may also include for purposes of illustration and without limitation the average amount of time a visitor spends in the store the average amount of money a customer spends in the store or any other metric commonly used or uniquely desired by an advertiser or content producer.

The location is a specific business locations defined by a coordinate or a perimeter however the location may also be a group of businesses defined by a list of different geographic locations.

The processing that occurs may be unbounded in time only limited by the amount of information available in the system but it may also be limited to data collected over a specified period of time.

The business or store locations are a set of branded business locations defined by a set of coordinates or a set of perimeters however the business or store locations do not need to be branded and may also correspond to personal landmarks or other locations without commercial significance. Additionally multiple locations may be a grouping of locations defined by a plurality of coordinates each of the plurality defining a polygon or a plurality of perimeters.

The Customer Relationship Management data includes total visitors for the set of business locations but it may also include new visitors for the set of business locations total visitors for the set of business locations or return visitors for the set of business locations.

Furthermore the methods and systems account the error associated with the process of locating the mobile device is accounted for when necessary or desired.

The above and other objects may be achieved using methods and systems involving tracking a mobile device to determine if the user of the mobile device visits a business location. This involves loading at least one data point corresponding to the business location into the mobile device along with a radius and recording or reporting instances when the location of the mobile device corresponds to an area indicted by the data point and radius corresponding to the business location. Alternatively multiple data points defining the perimeter of the business location may be loaded into the mobile device and the mobile device may record or report instances when its location is within the area defined by the data points.

Furthermore a data point may be loaded into a mobile device that is located along a path to the business location. When the mobile device is within a proximity to the data point or within an area defined by multiple data points a notification is triggered. The notification message may direct the user to a business along the path.

The above and other objects may be achieved using methods and systems involving indicating an approximate perimeter of a business location and requesting that a system send a notification to a potential customer when it is determined that the potential customer is travelling along a route where at least a portion of the route is in proximity to the business location.

Aspects and applications of the invention presented here are further described in the drawings and detailed description of the invention. Unless specifically noted it is intended that the words and phrases in the specification and the claims be given their plain ordinary and accustomed meaning to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. The inventor is fully aware that he may be his own lexicographer if desired. The inventor expressly elects as his own lexicographer to use only the plain and ordinary meaning of terms in the specification and claims unless he clearly states otherwise and then further expressly sets forth the special definition of that term and explains how it differs from the plain and ordinary meaning Absent such clear statements of intent to apply a special definition it is the inventor s intent and desire that the simple plain and ordinary meaning of the terms be applied to the interpretation of the specification and claims.

The inventor is also aware of the normal precepts of English grammar. Thus if a noun term or phrase is intended to be further characterized specified or narrowed in some way then such noun term or phrase will expressly include additional adjectives descriptive terms or other modifiers in accordance with the normal precepts of English grammar. Absent the use of such adjectives descriptive terms or modifiers it is the intent that such nouns terms or phrases be given their plain and ordinary English meaning to those skilled in the applicable arts as set forth above.

Further the inventor is fully informed of the standards and application of the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6. The use of the words function means or step in the Detailed Description or Description of the Drawings or claims is not intended to somehow indicate a desire to invoke the special provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6 to define the invention. To the contrary if the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6 are sought to be invoked to define the inventions the claims will specifically and expressly state the exact phrases means for or step for and will also recite the word function i.e. will state means for performing the function of insert function without also reciting in such phrases any structure material or act in support of the function. Thus even when the claims recite a means for performing the function of . . . or step for performing the function of . . . if the claims also recite any structure material or acts in support of that means or step or that perform the recited function then it is the clear intention of the inventor not to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6. Moreover even if the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6 are invoked to define the claimed inventions it is intended that the inventions not be limited only to the specific structure material or acts that are described in the preferred embodiments but in addition include any and all structures materials or acts that perform the claimed function as described in alternative embodiments or forms of the invention or that are well known present or later developed equivalent structures material or acts for performing the claimed function.

Elements and acts in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and have not necessarily been rendered according to any particular sequence or embodiment.

In the following description and for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of the invention. It will be understood however by those skilled in the relevant arts that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances known structures and devices are shown or discussed more generally in order to avoid obscuring the invention. It should be noted that there are many different and alternative configurations devices and technologies to which the disclosed inventions may be applied. The full scope of the inventions is not limited to any examples or embodiments that are described below nor should any examples or embodiments be construed in any way as limiting the applications of the invention or the intention of the inventor in having the invention applied to any devices or systems whether presently existent or not.

With reference to GPS satellites operate to determine the location of a mobile device that has a number of features available based upon the location data. The mobile device provides a user interface GPS receiver CPU and memory and radio . Examples of mobile device include cellular phones personal digital assistants pagers laptop computers automobile navigation systems among others. Mobile device receives GPS signals and determines its location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation this may occur solely through using the GPS system or may occur by using a filter to combine location data from the GPS system and another system such as cell tower triangulation in order to obtain a more accurate location. The mobile device is wirelessly coupled to an access point with a built in radio . The access point is coupled to the Internet or other network. A number of other systems or services are available to the device over the Internet or other network optionally including but not limited to an inventory system advertisement system search engine mapping business location GIS and routing database user information database advertiser information database payment system and phone system .

In some forms of the invention a remote server periodically receives and stores location information associated with a mobile device such as a mobile phone. The information is sent from the mobile device however it may also be pulled from the mobile device or obtained from another service that is able to determine the location of the mobile device e.g. Location Based Services LBS Assisted GPS A GPS eGPS GSM Localization Multilaterilzation Radiolocation Trilateration Faux GPS etc. . The information includes not only geographic location data but also the speed and the heading of the mobile device. If the speed and heading data is not collected or sent then this information is determined by comparing subsequent data sets containing the mobile device s geographic information. The data sets are stored in a database and associated with the particular mobile device or a particular user.

Many businesses provide their own Wi Fi access points that consumers are allowed to utilize. These access points may also be used to help ascertain the location of a user. The mobile device is able to report back to remote servers that comprise the system and the remote servers by analyzing the IP address information are able to determine the business the user is currently located at. Alternatively the system can use ambient Wi Fi information in order to determine its location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation Skyhook Wireless s WPS system may be used. This information may be analyzed independent of or in conjunction with other forms of location information.

The location information is obtained in real time from the device. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the device may stream location information to the server or send location information periodically such as every few seconds or every few minutes. In alternative forms of the invention the mobile device may record location information periodically to internal memory and periodically send the information to a remote server. In some forms of the invention the user is able to select between streaming location information to the server and periodically sending recorded information. This selection may be made depending on current wireless signal conditions. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the mobile device is on a high speed data network such as EV DO HSDPA Wi MAX Technologies operating in the 700 MHz Spectrum or Wi Fi the device may elect to stream location information and possibly send a relatively large data packet of previously recorded location information. If the device is on a slower speed data network then the location information may be sent less periodically and more detailed records kept in internal memory on the phone that are sent to a remote server when a higher speed data connection is available.

In some forms of the invention location information describing the perimeters of business locations are sent to the mobile device and the mobile device communicates with the server if the location of the mobile device is located within the perimeter of the business location. In other forms of the invention the location information of the mobile device is sent to the system and compared with information describing the perimeters of business locations. Alternatively the business locations may be defined by a point and radius or mathematical formula. This is exemplary and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. As shown and described a person having ordinary skill in the art is able to implement the invention in any number of varying forms.

The software that provides these methods runs on any mobile device or it may also run on a general purpose computer. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the software may run on Palm Blackberry Windows Mobile or Open Handset Alliance Android devices or a personal computer running Windows OS X Linux or any other operating system. The software that runs on the device may run in the background e.g. as a service daemon etc. it may run as a script on a webpage or it may run as an application in the operating system on the device.

In order to protect the user s privacy any of the real time and recorded location information reporting may be disabled or selectively enabled by the user of the mobile device. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a user may elect to only have their mobile device send periodic requests to retrieve location based content without sending current location information. The mobile device collects location information over time and either sends the raw data at a later time or the data is processed into a list of traveled routes and visited locations. Thus the mobile device does not necessarily send current location information. A user profile or information to identify a user profile stored on a remote server may also be transmitted to associate the location information with a particular user. Then a data set is returned containing location based content tailored to the interests or current needs of the user

In some forms of the invention the mobile device receives information that describes the geographic locations of businesses. The mobile device may only report when the location of the mobile device corresponds to the geographic location of a business. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the mobile device may contain information that describes the perimeters of many different business locations. When the location of the mobile device is determined to be within the location of one of the many businesses then the device will record that it was located within one of the business locations and communicate that information to a remote server. This information may be anonomyzed or otherwise obfuscated as to decrease privacy concerns.

Alternatively a user may disable all location reporting features as previously described. Location information and the areas in which the user typically travels may be gleaned from user searches for businesses within a specific geographic location user requests driving directions and other search habits of the user. Location information pertaining to the user may also be gleaned based upon transaction information obtained from payment processing companies or by analyzing the phone numbers of various business locations dialed by the user.

In one form of the invention the location information stored is analyzed to determine the types of businesses that the user of the mobile device typically visits or visited. The stored location information stored in is compared to a database of business information and locations in order to determine specific businesses or types of businesses frequented by the user of the mobile device. The information may be stored and analyzed in any portion of the system. For purposes of illustration and without limitation in various forms of the invention the information may be stored in the mobile device and analyzed on the mobile device providing maximum privacy the information may be stored on a server remote from the mobile device and analyzed on the server remote from the mobile device the information may be stored on the mobile device and analyzed on the remote server or the information may be stored on the remote server and analyzed on the mobile device. This may be done in one of several ways. With reference to and when a mobile device location is within a predefined distance from either the address of a business a geographic location associated with the business such as latitude and longitude or a latitude and longitude obtained from a geocoding algorithm or a geometric perimeter of the business location it may be determined that the user of the mobile device was at a particular business. Some location data corresponds to locations outside of the business location and other data corresponds to locations inside of the business location . It may be determined that a user was at a particular business location when the data corresponds to locations inside of the business location . The altitude data may also be analyzed to determine which floor of a multi story building the user of the mobile device was located in. The altitude data may be obtained from a pressure sensor GPS receiver or any other location determining hardware. Alternatively referring to the user of the mobile device may be presented with a menu prompting for the business at which they are currently located or were located previously.

In alternative forms of the invention information is sent to the mobile device describing the location and a radius or a perimeter of businesses in a certain geographic area. When the user is within the areas defined by the data sent to the mobile device then the mobile device reports the location of the device to a remote portion of the system or records the location of the device to a local portion of the system. Alternatively the mobile device only reports that it is located at the particular business. The mobile device may also report other information such as the time spent at the business location.

If the system is not able to determine the specific business such as in the case where many businesses are in close proximity at least one of several actions may be taken depending on the form of the invention. With reference to a user generates location data corresponding to locations outside of the business locations the user then enters the perimeter of business location . The user then generates location data corresponding to locations outside of the business locations does not enter the perimeter of the second business location and enters the perimeter of a third business location but generates ambiguous location data that is near the perimeters of the third business location and the perimeter of the fourth business location . Determination of the business visited in conjunction with the ambiguous location data is attempted. With reference to the mobile device prompts the user to specify the business that was visited with a menu allowing the user to assist with determining the businesses visited corresponding to ambiguous location data . The menu may only show options for the businesses where there is uncertainty if the user visited the particular location for purposes of illustration and without limitation referring to and the menu may only contain options for Business Locations and . Furthermore the menu may contain any type of input field including checkboxes or radio buttons. The user may select all businesses that they visited or may only select one business. In some forms of the invention a map is presented to the user and the user is asked to touch the business locations visited or otherwise indicate the business visited using a marker pen drag and drop icon or any other indicator. Alternatively location data may be analyzed over time and determine the most likely business visited based upon several data points. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the ambiguous location data may be averaged e.g. average of x coordinates and average of y coordinates weighted average of x and y coordinates average of radius and angle coordinates with reference to a point etc. or it may be determined that the user entered the perimeter of the third business location and did not enter the perimeter of the fourth business location and therefore the ambiguous location data does not correspond to locations within the perimeter of the fourth business location .

In some forms of the invention the website or payment systems of the store communicate with the mobile device. The website or payment system data is associated with the location data to determine the store and the store location that the user is visiting. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the mobile device is interfaced with Starbucks payment system or if the mobile device recently visited the Starbucks website or a computer operated by the user under an account associated with the mobile device and subsequently it appears that the mobile device s location may correspond to Starbucks or one of several stores adjacent to the particular Starbucks location it may be determined that the user is currently visiting the Starbucks near their reported location. Alternatively the system may provide increased weighting to Starbucks when determining the location of the mobile device.

In preferred forms of the invention speed data is incorporated into the analysis. It may be determined that a user of a mobile device was at a particular business location if in addition to the reported location of the device the speed of the mobile device was below a threshold level. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if a user walks through a store quickly or drives past a store it is not erroneously assumed that the user visited the particular business location. Additionally before assuming a user is visiting a certain business location a time requirement may be incorporated into the analysis. Before a determination is made as to whether the device is or was present at a business location it may be determined how long the device was present at the business location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation in some instances people quickly pass through a store to get to another area of a shopping center. The geographic location and optional speed requirements previously discussed are imposed. Furthermore one or both of these conditions may be required to persist for a threshold period of time. This time may be the amount of time that a typical visitor spends at the particular business location. This helps insure that someone who walks by a business or through a business is able to be distinguished from someone that actually visits a business location. These methods and associated systems may be used to determine the specific businesses or types of businesses a user of a mobile device visits.

With reference to location data points and the associated vectors representing the relatively high velocity allow determination of the points that correspond to the user traveling on a major road . Location data point and the associated velocity vector at an angle indicate that the user is turning on to another major road. Location data points and the associated velocity vectors representing the relatively high rate of speed allow determination of the user is travelling on a major road . Location data point and the associated velocity vector at an angle allows the determination that the user is turning into a shopping center. Location data points and the associated vectors representing a slower velocity allow the determination that the user is driving in a parking lot . Location data points and the associated vectors representing a very slow velocity may be used to determine that the user is walking to the store . A location data point within the perimeter of the business location may be used to determine that the user of the mobile device visited the particular business location. The time spent by the user at the particular business location may be determined by calculating the time difference in time between the first data point and the last data point within the perimeter of the business location . Alternatively the device may record the time from when the device first senses it is within the perimeter of the business location to when the device senses it has gone outside of the perimeter of the business location .

In some forms of the invention the location information stored is analyzed to determine the routes along which or the areas in which the user of the mobile device typically travels. The stored location information stored is compared to a database of map information e.g. MapQuest Google Maps NavTeq Geographic Information Systems GIS etc. in order to determine specific routes taken by the user of the mobile device. Driving direction queries that the user of the mobile device has submitted may also be analyzed to determine rotes or areas that the user of the mobile device typically travels. This is useful in many applications including but not limited to predictive navigation. The current or most recent data set is compared to at least one previously received data set. The system is able to determine the routes taken by the user when the user previously produced a similar data set. The system is then able to determine the anticipated route that the user is taking the apparent destination or a list of apparent destinations so that the user does not have to key in their destination each time they use the navigation system.

With reference to targeted content associated with a particular business location may be displayed based upon the determination of previous courses and the current likely course of travel or anticipated route however this display of targeted content is not necessary for purposes of this example. Location data points and the associated vectors representing the relatively high velocity may be used to determine that the user is traveling on a major road . Based on the determination that the user of the mobile device is traveling on the major road and analyzing historical location data associated with the user it may be determined that the user is going to turn left at the next major road and take anticipated route . Based upon this determination targeted content may be sent for one or more businesses along the anticipated route to the user of the mobile device. Location data point and the associated velocity vector at an angle allows the determination that the user is turning on to another major road. At this point the anticipated route is reevaluated to determine if it has changed. Location data points and the associated velocity vectors representing the relatively high rate of speed allow the system to determine the points correspond to the user traveling on a major road . At some point targeted content for the business location is displayed on the mobile device. The user of the mobile device may not see the content because the user is not looking at the device the user may see the content and ignore it the user may see the content and perform an action on the content through the user interface the user may see the content and not perform any action on the content through the user interface but then proceed to the location indicated by the content. Location data point and the associated velocity vector at an angle may be used to determine that the user is turning into a shopping center. Location data points and the associated vectors representing a slower velocity may be used to determine that the user is driving in a parking lot . Location data points and the associated vectors representing a very slow velocity may be used to determine that the user is walking to the store. Location data points within the perimeter of the business location may be used to determine that the user of the mobile device visited the particular business location after the targeted content was displayed on the user s mobile device. The time spent by the user at the particular business location may be determined by calculating the time difference in time between the first data point and the last data point within the perimeter of the business location . Furthermore with an integrated payment system the amounts of any transactions completed by the user of the mobile device are known. If targeted content was displayed to the user then this information is associated with the targeted content so that the business owner is able to determine the effectiveness of their targeted content.

The anticipated route may be determined based on several factors including but not limited to the month or season the day of the week or the time of the day. For purposes of illustration and without limitation referring to if a user is driving North down Hayden Road in Scottsdale Ariz. and it may be determined that the user of the device typically goes to the Safeway on Chaparral Road or Scottsdale Fashion Square on Camelback Road when driving north on Hayden Road then the user is prompted to select between at least Safeway on Chaparral Road or Scottsdale Fashion Square on Camelback Road . Alternatively the most likely destination may be automatically selected based upon the habits of the user. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if it is Saturday and the user typically goes to Safeway on Saturday and not Fashion Square Safeway is automatically selected as the destination. However if the user always takes Camelback Road from Hayden Road to go to Fashion Square then the anticipated route and destination is updated in the event the user turns on to Camelback Road from Hayden Road even though the user typically goes to Safeway on Saturday. For purposes of further illustration and without limitation Safeway on Chaparral Road contains a pharmacy bakery Starbucks and deli. These features of the grocery store may be taken into account when recommending or pushing advertisements to the user. If the user goes to a doctor s office an advertisement for the Safeway may be presented to the user. Alternatively an advertisement for another pharmacy that is more convenient to the user may be presented to the user. If the user has never been to the more convenient pharmacy then a coupon may be coupled to the advertisement to incentivize the user to go to that pharmacy instead of the one at the Safeway the user typically visits. Other business locations may include movie theaters restaurants airports subway stations bus stations optometrists cobblers tailors or other services that may be taken into account when determining advertisements to send or the anticipated route of the user.

The current location information is used in order to predict the current path by comparing the current location information associated with the mobile device to past location information associated with the mobile device. It may be determined the paths that the user has traveled on when their mobile device previously reported similar location data. The search of past location information may be further narrowed to produce more accurate predictions by filtering for routes taken on similar days e.g. only Saturday only every other week monthly at similar times e.g. only around 5 00 PM between 3 00 PM and 6 00 PM after sunset before high noon before a particular stock market opens in the time zone of the user etc. or any combination. For purposes of illustration and without limitation referring to a new location is reported at action the historical location data associated with the device is searched to recall routes previously taken when the device produced similar data at a similar time of the day at action . the routes taken are stored in a weighted list at action . Next the historical location data associated with the device is searched to recall routes previously taken when the device produced similar data at a similar day of the week at action . The routes taken are stored in a weighted list at action . The historical location data associated with the device is searched to recall routes previously taken when the device produced similar data at any time at action . The routes taken are stored in a weighted list at action . The weighted lists are then combined to produce a set of results. Based on these results it may be determined the route the user is most likely taking at action . Alternatively the user may be presented with a list of likely destinations at action .

In some forms of the invention the anticipated route or destination information is referenced against a database of targeted content that includes business locations and information in order to determine if there is any content of interest to the user of the mobile device along the anticipated route . If there is appropriate targeted content this information is sent to the mobile device in order to inform the user of the mobile device of business and events of interest that are easily accessible from their current route. For purposes of illustration and without limitation referring again to if the user frequents office supply stores an advertisement indicating that Office Max on the West side of Hayden Road may be sent to the mobile device to be displayed at an appropriate time. A user is more likely to respond to content that is easily accessible than if they have to go out of their way therefore targeted content on the right hand side of the road in the United States may be given preference to content on the left hand side of the road when targeted content is sent to the user or when the content is displayed on the mobile device. For purposes of illustration and without limitation targeted content for Office Max may only be displayed when the user is driving South on Hayden Road or may be displayed when the user is driving North on Hayden Road as long as there is not a relevant advertisement associated with a business on the right hand side of the road. In alternative forms of the invention these distinctions are not made.

In some forms of the invention the system is able to determine the user s mode of transportation. The mode of transportation may be walking jogging biking riding a motorcycle driving a car air travel or any other mode of transportation. The mode of transportation impacts the ability of the user to access certain locations and the ability to obtain certain types of goods and services e.g. a person on a motorcycle is not going to be able to stop at a store and buy large items . Thus the mode of transportation of the user will determine the types of advertisements that are likely to be effective. The mode of transportation of the user may be determined based upon the speed of the user and may also take into account additional information based upon searches of the user a user profile or other information associated with the user. In forms of the system integrated with payment systems the average purchase price of gasoline may be used to indicate of the user primarily drives a car or motorcycle. Whether the user is driving or walking may also be determined based on location data. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the system sees that the user is moving at about 2 mph on a roadway it may be assumed or otherwise determined that the user is driving however if the user is moving at about 2 mph in a downtown area or shopping center then it may be assumed or otherwise determined that the user is walking Recently obtained location and speed data may also be analyzed in making this determination. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the user is moving at about 2 mph on a roadway but has previously been traveling at about 40 mph on the roadway it is assumed or otherwise determined that the user is driving however if the user has consistently been moving at about 2 mph on the roadway it is assumed or otherwise determined that the user is walking down the roadway. Information pertaining to the elevation of the user may also be used to determine the user s mode of transportation. If the elevation data suggests that the user is very high above the ground level it may be determined that the user is in an aircraft and unable to respond to advertisements or that an advertisements associated with businesses at the destination airport should be displayed. The destination airport may be gleaned from public flight information by matching up the current location of the user with the current location of airlines or the typical flight paths of airlines. Alternatively the user s ticket purchase may be known or accessible by the system and thus enable the determination of the destination airport. They elevation and location data may also suggest that the user is on a specific floor of a shopping mall or driving on an elevated controlled access roadway. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the system is able to determine whether a user is walking around a shopping area based upon the speed of the user. In some forms of the invention the behavior of the targeted content displayed to the user is adjusted based upon the determination of whether the user is walking or driving. If the user is walking the location of the targeted advertisements relative to the side of the path the user is travelling on is either given less weight more weight or no weight at all. Furthermore the type of targeted content that is sent to the user may be adjusted so that it contains more information or the frequency new advertisements are sent and the duration of display of targeted content. The frequency of data collection or reporting from the device may be increased as well because a user walking around a shopping mall is able to change paths frequently and with ease. If it is determined that the user is on a controlled access road movie theater restaurant or other areas where the user is unlikely to respond to targeted content then the frequency of data collection may be reduced.

Content is sent to a mobile device based upon at least either current location information historical location information or anticipated location information. The likely or anticipated route that the user of the mobile device is currently taking may be based upon their current location information and the historical location information. Based upon this information targeted content is sent to the user. The targeted content is any type of information including but not limited to advertisements traffic information danger warnings or any other type of information that pertains to a geographic location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation it may be determined a user is travelling into the downtown area of a city along a specific route advertisements associated with establishments of interest along the route traffic information about construction and accidents along the route and information about fires hostage situations or other dangers are sent to the mobile device. For purposes of further illustration and without limitation the location of a mobile device is reported to be on Dorsey and 8th Street in Tempe Ariz. heading north at 35 mph on Saturday around 3 40 PM. This information is compared with historical location information associated with the user and the system determines that the anticipated route is 1 north on Dorsey to University 2 east on University to McClintock 3 north on McClintock until it turns into Hayden 4 north on Hayden until Chaparral 5 east on Chaparral for one tenth of one mile and 6 destination is Safeway Grocery store. Alternate anticipated routes or alternate possible routes may be determined. It may be determined that the particular user had previously taken the route 1 north on Dorsey to University 2 east on University to the AZ 101 freeway access road 3 north on the access road and enter AZ 101 at Rio Salado 4 exit AZ 101 at Chaparral 5 east on Chaparral until one tenth of one mile past McClintock and 6 destination is Safeway Grocery store. On one particular day there may be construction on McClintock due to a broken water line under the road and therefore heavy traffic the AZ 101 is under construction and the Rio Salado entrance is closed. Notifications of these traffic events may be sent to the user once it is determined that they are likely to proceed into these areas. Alternate routes may also be suggested that are free of problems. One alternate route may be calculated down Scottsdale Road however there are traffic issues on Scottsdale Road due to a fire at a business along the road. The user may then obtain a notification of a suggested route from Tempe into Mesa and down Alma School Road through the Indian Reservation to Indian School Road then west to McClintock where the user can get back onto their preferred route to their destination while avoiding all of the traffic congestion.

The targeted content may be sent to the mobile device by way of any protocol whether currently existing or yet to be created via any wireless communication method. The targeted content or notifications may be sent over any communication system or protocol including but not limited to TCP or UDP protocols WAP push Short Messaging Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Services MMS email Instant Message IM protocols e.g. AIM MSN Jabber Google Talk etc. Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Extensible Markup Language XML Real Simple Syndication RSS or Web 2.0 technologies such as AJAX.

In some forms of the invention guidance information is determined and provided to the user based upon the likely destinations of the user of the mobile device. Route guidance information is provided for the most likely destination based upon the location information associated with the user of the mobile device or associated with the mobile device. Alternatively the user may be provided with a list of likely destinations that the user is able to select from to receive driving directions from their current location. Furthermore the guidance information provided may be based upon current traffic conditions user preferences or other road hazards and dangers along the possible routes that may be provided.

In the forms of the invention where the mobile device is also a navigation system it may be determined a likely route based upon a tentative route that is input into the mobile device. Often users of navigation systems prefer routes that differ from the routes proposed by the navigation system. This may be out of personal preference known speed trap locations or current traffic conditions. The user simply ignores the route proposed by the navigation system and continues driving while the navigation system recalculates the route. Furthermore the preferred route of a user may change depending on the time of the day. A proposed route is obtained from the navigation system and returns a likely route based upon past data sets and other preferences of the user. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a user requests directions from downtown Tempe Ariz. to downtown Scottsdale Ariz. A typical navigation system calculates a route down Rural Road until it turns into Scottsdale Road. The user of the mobile device rarely goes down Rural Road to Scottsdale Road due to numerous speed traps along that route. The system of the present invention determines that the user prefers to avoid the stretch of road from downtown Tempe to Scottsdale Road along Rural Road and provides an alternate route for that leg of the trip from downtown Tempe to downtown Scottsdale. In some forms of the invention the user preferences for specific routes may be determined if the user modifies the route on their mobile device or on a computer using an account associated with their mobile device. For instance if they request driving directions and then modify the route by clicking and dragging to move the path from one road to another road this route is classified as a user preferred route.

The likely route or destination information may be compared to a database of targeted content that includes business locations and information in order to determine if there is any content of interest to the user of the mobile device along the anticipated route. If there is appropriate targeted content this information is sent to the mobile device in order to inform the user of the mobile device of business and events of interest that are easily accessible from the route.

When an updated data set is obtained by the system the system determines a targeted content set to be sent to the user. For purposes of illustration and without limitation with reference to a process used in some forms of the invention that determines content delivery based upon an anticipated route is initiated at action with location data. Then the anticipated route is determined at action . Next it is determined whether the anticipated route has changed since a previous iteration of the method at action . If the anticipated route has changed then a new targeted content for the user based upon the new anticipated route is compiled at action . Next the updated content is transmitted to the mobile device at action . Finally the display is updated at action to reflect the new targeted content stored in the device. If it is determined that the anticipated route has not changed at action then the display is updated at action . For an additional example reference to depicting a flowchart of another form of the invention that determines content delivery based upon an anticipated route. The process is initiated at action with location data. It is determined whether the location data is significantly different than the previous location data at action . In determining whether the data is significantly different at action whether there has been a large time gap between receipt of the current and previous data set or whether location and speed and heading data that indicates the user is no longer on the likely course of travel or anticipated route may be analyzed. If the data is determined to be significantly different the apparent route is determined at action . Then new targeted content for the user is compiled based upon the new anticipated route at action . Next updated content is transmitted to the mobile device at action . Finally the display is updated at action . If it is determined that the location data is not significantly different at action then the display is updated at action . For yet another illustration without limitation refer to depicting a flowchart of one form of the invention that determines content delivery based upon a planned navigation route. A route is presented to the method at action . Then it is determined if the route is different than the last route that was presented or if the last route is outdated e.g. was presented over a threshold period of time in the past at action . If the route is different than the previously presented route or if the previously presented route is very old then content of interest to the user is located along the presented route at action . The content is sent to the mobile device at action .

The data sent from the phone containing location information may be further analyzed to determine various aspects of the data set that is sent to the phone including but not limited to the behavior of the targeted content. Based upon the data set it is determined whether the user of the mobile device is stationary or moving. Based upon the speed of the user it may further be determined whether the user is in a car walking or stationary. The mobile device may behave differently or targeted content may be delivered to the user based upon their speed. If the user is moving slowly many elements of targeted content associated with the nearby area are sent to the mobile device or retrieved from the memory of the mobile device. If the user is moving faster For purposes of illustration and without limitation if they are in a car on a motorcycle on a high speed train etc. then targeted content associated with businesses in a wider area are sent to the user or retrieved from the memory of the mobile device. This allows the mobile device to display the most relevant content to the user of the mobile device while allowing the content to be displayed a sufficient amount of time so that the user is able to see and react to the content before the content is replaced with more relevant information based upon updated location information available to the mobile device. Content is replaced when it is no longer convenient for the user to respond to or when it has been displayed for a given period of time without a user response. For purposes of illustration and without limitation when a user is driving down a road and an advertisement is displayed to a user for a particular business location once the user passes the entrance to the complex where the business is located the advertisement may be replaced on the screen of the mobile device. When the user is walking around a shopping center and an advertisement is displayed for a time sufficient for the user to see and respond to the advertisement e.g. after the user responds to a text message and therefore is looking at their phone an advertisement notification is displayed for a nearby store for a period of 30 seconds and then the advertisement subsides or is replaced with another advertisement .

In some forms of the invention a user s favorite businesses and attractions are determined. For purposes of illustration and without limitation these locations may be determined by analyzing the location information to determine the frequency with which the user of the mobile device visits particular businesses or particular types of businesses the amount of time spent at the business location by reference to positive or negative or numerical ratings the user associates with particular businesses or business types such ratings can be entered via a menu on a mobile device or through an application or webpage associated with the user s profile . The ratings are positive or negative such as thumbs up and thumb down but may also be numerical such as a rating one through five.

In some forms of the invention advertisements and search results are returned based upon at least a likely course of travel. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if it is determined that the user is on a specified path then the top search results returned are relevant results along the current path. Other results that are returned are relevant results along other paths that the user is known to have previously taken. Furthermore results associated with relevant locations that are slightly off of the known paths of the user are returned as top search results.

In determining the top search results or in configuring the information displayed on the screen the hours of operation of the businesses may be considered. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the user is driving down a road at 10 00 PM and performs a search either at a stop light or via a voice command while moving the top results are relevant businesses along the path that are currently open as determined by known hours of operation that are posted on the internet or stored in a database. Therefore businesses that close at 5 00 PM are not included in the top results or if they are included in the top results they are near the bottom of the top results or otherwise weighted appropriately e.g. to reflect that the business is not currently open . Furthermore hours of operation are taken into consideration when sending targeted content to a mobile device so that a user is not directed to a business location before or after business hours.

In some instances the user of a mobile device desires to see a map or listing of businesses of interest to them located around them. For purposes of illustration and without limitation on a business trip a user of a mobile device may not know where their favorite businesses or similar businesses are located in relation to their hotel. Furthermore the system does not have a database of routes available to base targeted advertisements or other information off of for the user because the user has not interacted with businesses in the new location. The system is able to provide a user with a map view or listing of the user s favorite businesses in relation to any given location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the system knows that the user of a particular mobile device enjoys coffee shops particularly Starbucks fast food restaurants particularly McDonalds and grocery stores particularly Safeway and the user travels to Chicago and is not aware of where their favorite branded locations are with respect to their hotel the user is able to see a map with a number of their favorite businesses or similar establishments overlaid simultaneously on the map. The user sees a map with Starbucks McDonalds and Dominick s similar to Safeway in relation to their current location or their hotel. Results of similar business establishments may be provided that are more convenient to access from the current location of the user. Furthermore advertisements targeted to tourists or travelers as opposed to advertisements targeted to residents and commuters may be provided. For purposes of illustration and without limitation an advertisement for a furniture store may not be displayed while the user is on a business trip even though the user frequently visits furniture stores in their home city.

The targeted content or advertisements are sent to the user of the mobile device and displayed on the screen of the mobile device. The targeted content is based on various factors including at least some the following the route that the user of the mobile device usually takes the route that the user is currently taking e.g. based upon driving directions or the anticipated route the types of businesses along the route that the user takes the types of businesses that the client appears to visit or is known to visit based upon GPS and payment system data any business within a radius or perimeter of the user the history of the advertisements or other targeted content that the user has responded to in the past a list of keywords that the user is interested in a user profile that details search trends or interests of the user or a category or status message provided by the user of the device e.g. I am hungry I am tired What is everyone up to I am going to get coffee etc. .

In some forms of the invention the targeted content appears on the mobile device differently in varying circumstances. In the case where the mobile device is stationary or where the mobile device is stationary and there is no anticipated or explicitly defined route ads or other targeted content may appear based upon the radius or based upon the current perimeter of the map view of on the mobile device. In the case where the mobile device is moving targeted content appears based upon the location speed and heading of the device. The targeted content appears before the user reaches the location of interest along the path. The faster the mobile device is moving the earlier the targeted content is displayed to allow the user of the mobile device sufficient time to decide whether or not to respond to the content. The content may appear based upon the side of the road on the business is on that the content relates to.

With reference to it is determined what action a user is currently taking and what type of information is to be sent to the user. The method is initiated at action with location speed and heading data from a mobile device. If the mobile device only provides location data the speed and heading data may be calculated by taking the difference in position and time between subsequent location data points. It is then determined based upon the speed if the user is stationary at action . If the user is stationary then it may be determined if the user is at a business location indicated by targeted content previously sent to the user s mobile device at action . If the user is at the location then the duration of the visit is recorded at action . If the user is not at the business location the user s location is recorded at action and it the business the user is currently located at if any is determined at action . If the user is not stationary it may be determined if the user is walking based upon speed data at action . If the user is walking then targeted content is transmitted for business locations of interest to the user of the mobile device to the mobile device at action . Then the content is displayed on the mobile device at action . The responses to the content and which content is ignored are recorded at action . If the user is not walking then it may be determined if the user is driving at action . If the user is driving then targeted content formatted for driving speeds e.g. spaced apart so that a user has time to see and respond to displayed content is generated and transmitted to the mobile device at action . Next the content is displayed on the mobile device with preference given to displaying content that is coming up on the right hand side of the road at action . Finally the responses to the content and which content is ignored are recorded at action .

In some forms of the invention events may be triggered based upon the location of a device. When it may be determined that its location corresponds to a specific pre defined location a message targeted content or advertisement is presented. In some forms of this aspect of the invention if the user responds to the message by clicking on it to find out more information then more detailed tracking information e.g. with increased data resolution is kept in order to determine if the user of the device proceeds to the advertiser s business location and makes a purchase. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a user creates a shopping list on a website through their personal computer or on their mobile device and associate the shopping list with grocery stores in general a specific brand of grocery store or a specific grocery store. When the user of the mobile device is in proximity to a grocery store or when a grocery store is along the path the user is currently traveling on or the anticipated path of the user a notification is displayed including the shopping list or a link to the shopping list. In forms of the invention interfaced with databases containing store inventories the notification may only be displayed if the store has at least an item that is in the list. If the user responds to the notification or content then more detained information about the user s behavior such as more frequent location data may be communicated in order to provide the content producer more information so that they are able to use the information to improve subsequent customer experiences at the business location.

In some forms of the invention for each targeted advertisement a location is sent to the device that triggers the advertisement to be displayed to the user wherein the advertisement is for a business located along the path the user is traveling. For purposes of illustration and without limitation information is sent to the mobile device containing points that correspond to locations where if the user is in proximity to the point the mobile device takes an action or manifests an intent to take an action. The action is displaying targeted content but it may also be responding with additional information changing the behavior of the mobile device e.g. location reporting frequency content display settings etc. or any other action desired or combination of actions desired. One two or more locations may be sent to the user of the mobile device. For purposes of illustration and without limitation referring to two location data points and associated radiuses are sent to the mobile device. One point and radius corresponds to the location where the targeted content notification is triggered and a second point and radius corresponds to the business location associated with the targeted content. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the user is traveling north along a path and comes into proximity with a first location which triggers the device to display content that directs the user to a particular business location . The user proceeds to the business location and when the user s location is within the second point and radius the mobile device records that the user visited the business location or communicates that the user visited the business location.

In order to entice users to respond to targeted content some forms of the invention provide coupons that are integrated with the targeted content. In some forms of this aspect of the invention the value of the coupon is determined based on the amount of effort that a user has to exert to arrive at the business location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the value of a coupon associated with a business location on the left hand side of the road may be higher than the value of a coupon associated with a business location on the right hand side of the road. In the case where targeted content corresponds to a business slightly off the main path that the user is taking a coupon with an increase value may be sent to the user.

Depending on the form of the invention the coupons operate in one of several ways. In one form the coupon is a text image or video. The user of the mobile device simply communicates e.g. types into computer system shows the coupon to an employee etc. the coupon to the business in order to redeem the coupon. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a bar code or other coded image can be displayed on the screen of a cell phone PDA or other mobile device and the customer or employee of the store scans the bar code. Other examples would involve multiple image codes being scanned or animated image codes. In another form of the invention the image coupon contains a barcode or other optical symbol or text code that is input into the computer system of a business in order to redeem the coupon. In another form of the invention the coupon is redeemed wirelessly. For purposes of illustration and without limitation technologies such as Bluetooth technologies operating on the 700 MHz spectrum or Wi Fi may be used to transmit coupons between a remote server the mobile device a retailer or any combination thereof. In one implementation this is achieved by having the mobile device connect to the merchant s computer system where the coupon code is transmitted via the wireless connection. In another form of the invention the coupon is redeemed via a RFID or similar chip that is present on the mobile device. The RFID number of the mobile device is associated with a list of coupons that were sent to the device and then when the RFID of the mobile device is scanned at a business location the RFID number is matched with the coupons sent and the merchant ID number that scanned the phone to determine the value of the coupon. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a list of RFID numbers associated with merchant ID numbers is maintained and coupon identification number or value for coupons that have been sent to the mobile phone with the particular RFID number. When the merchant ID scans the RFID chip and obtains the RFID number then the merchant submits a query with the RFID number and their merchant ID number and the coupon identification number or value is returned. This invention may also be used with any other wireless identification number such as the Media Access Control MAC address of a Bluetooth or Wi Fi radio or any unique identification number. In another form of the invention a list of advertisements sent to the mobile device is maintained and it is observed whether the location of the mobile device subsequently corresponds to a business location of targeted content that was sent to the phone. A payment system e.g. PayPal Google Checkout etc. may further be notified and when the user makes a purchase while at the business location the coupon value is applied by the payment system. In another form of the invention the system communicates with a payment system to apply the coupon value if the user makes a purchase at the business location within the period of time the coupon is valid. The above forms are exemplary and do not constitute an exhaustive list of all forms of this aspect of the invention.

When presented with a coupon the client either accepts the coupon by clicking on a button or other methods e.g. voice optical gesture recognizer touch etc. to accept or postpone the advertisement e.g. Ok Yes Accept Later Ignore etc. the user may simply ignore the advertisement e.g. by not providing any input in response to the advertisement or explicitly reject the advertisement by clicking a button or indicating through other methods.

Other illustrations of recipient interaction with coupons are when the initial offer contains the full content of the offer when the act of clicking Ok on the targeted content displays the full offer when the tracking frequency e.g. the amount of data points collected remains the same as before the targeted content was presented to the user when the tracking frequency increases so that better data resolution is obtained when it is believed that the user is about to enter a business location. These various alternatives allow tracking of the customer to the business location and better enables calculation of how long the user visited the store. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the initial tracking frequency is one data point every minute the tracking frequency after the targeted content is presented may change to one data point every fraction of a minute e.g. 30 seconds 20 seconds 10 seconds 5 seconds 1 second etc. . This allows a finer resolution in determining how long the visitor stayed within the store. In some forms of the invention the system can be configured to ensure that there is a low speed when the device reports that it is at the business location to make sure the user is actually stopping there and not just passing through or that the data point was not recorded in error e.g. when there is an erroneous data point that is within the business location the speed is in some instances reported as being incredibly fast due to the abrupt change in location .

In some forms of the invention advertisers and targeted content producers can increase the effectiveness of the targeted content when the system records and provides the responses to each of the advertisements sent to the user whether the user explicitly accepted the content explicitly rejected the content did not respond to the content or saved the content to be viewed later.

The user of the mobile device is not limited to receiving only the targeted content received unsolicited at the mobile device the user of the mobile device may also initiate searches for terms of interest. Results are returned based upon at least the current likely course of travel. When a user initiates a search relevant content associated with locations along the current likely route is returned. The results do not need to be limited to the current likely route there may be a plurality of routes that are traveled by the user based upon the current position information. Results may be returned based upon all possible routes traveled by the user based upon their most current data set e.g. their location their speed their heading the path they are on etc. . Additionally a user is able to search all relevant content along all paths that they have traveled results may be provided based upon this information. The results of any mobile search may be limited to or preference may be given to relevant content ahead on the likely courses of travel based upon the current data set. This returns the business locations that are most easily accessible to the user first. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the user is driving north on AZ 51 in Phoenix Ariz. The user realizes that he needs gas and initiates a search for a gas station. The closest gas station is less than a mile away from the user of the mobile device but it is located behind the user relative to their direction of travel. The user would need to exit the freeway at Glendale Road make a left and then make another left turn to backtrack to the gas station. Once the user is done filling up the user would need to get back on the freeway to continue on the route. The present invention analyzes the location information of the user to determine the route and return a more convenient gas station along the route of the user. It may be determined that the user is driving north on AZ 51 and determines that the next gas station along the path the user is on is located several miles ahead on northbound AZ 51 and located at Shea Road and 32nd Street. This determination may be made based on previous route or location information requested by the user or may be determined absent this information simply by analyzing location information and map information.

In some forms of the invention the system is integrated with a search engine. In one implementation when the user of a mobile device is using a mapping website or program such as Google Maps or Google Earth at least some of the data collected from the phone e.g. previous locations businesses the user frequents etc. is overlaid on a map. When the user requests driving directions the mapping website or program displays targeted content along the route. When the user is viewing an area of the map without driving directions the mapping website or software displays locations of interest in the current view of the map. When the mapping website or software is showing search results and the user selects a specific business location locations of other types of businesses of interest appear on the map around the location selected. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the user searches home improvement stores and selects a specific Home Depot then businesses of interest to the user appear around the Home Depot location. If the user is known to like coffee a Starbucks location in proximity to the selected Home Depot location displays on the map. Furthermore and any number of other businesses the user is known to enjoy or it may be determined that the user is likely to enjoy may be simultaneously displayed. The search engine may obtain location contemporaneously with the search request. The location information may be submitted as part of a hidden form field and obtained through a script on the page or other program that interfaces with the location API on the mobile device. Alternatively a program or other code may run on the mobile device associated with the user and periodically update location information the search engine associates with the user. Therefore when a search is performed the most recent location information may be used in determining weighting for the search results. In some forms of the invention if a time associated with the most recent location information is not about the current time then the system may notify the user the information is outdated requests new location information or otherwise perform the search with or without the benefit of the location information.

In some forms of the invention the location information is interfaced with traditional web search results. When the user searches for specific terms that correspond to businesses that provide services along the routes the user typically travels on or nearby routes the user typically travels on the search engine provides these results to the user with increased weighting relative to results associated with businesses and websites with locations that are not on the paths the user typically travels.

In some forms of the invention the system provides a user with the ability to perform a search of web pages associated with businesses in an area or along paths that the user has traveled on or along the anticipated route. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a user wants to get a chicken strip dinner at Rock N Roll Fingers in Tempe Ariz. It is 8 00 PM when the user arrives at the restaurant but the restaurant closed at 7 30 PM. The user may search chicken strips. This searches the web pages of all businesses along paths associated with the user of the mobile device. A particular Sonic Drive in Restaurant in Tempe Ariz. down the street from Rock N Roll Fingers is associated with the Sonic Drive In webpage. The Sonic Drive In webpage mentions a chicken strip dinner and the Sonic Drive In and optionally a link to the website and information about the chicken strip dinner is displayed as one of the results returned from the search chicken strips. In some forms of the invention integrated with inventory databases restaurants may list their menu items in an inventory list so that they are searchable in a similar fashion.

Sometimes people do not realize that businesses of interest are nearby. In another form of the invention results returned while a user is using a search engine or a search on a mobile device may be flagged by the user so that next time the user is near a business related to the search result the user is notified. This feature may operate based on whether the user is heading in a path towards a place of business or whether the user input a route into a navigation program on a mobile device that passes near a business location of the content originator. When appropriate an alert or other content is presented thereby notifying or reminding the user of the nearby business of interest. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a link is placed on a website under an advertisement or content that says send to mobile device for later notification remind me notify me or any similar text image or icon. The user clicks the link and the next time they pass by or are anticipated to pass by the associated business a reminder pops up on their mobile device. In some forms of the invention the user may be able to pull up the notification on their mobile device without needing to pass by the business location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation when a notify me link is clicked on a webpage or from the mobile device the business location is put into a list of business locations on the mobile device or on the system that the user of the mobile device is able to review at any time.

In some forms of the invention embedded internet location based content is inserted into search results or web pages. The embedded content accesses GPS or other location information on the mobile device and then updates the location information associated with the user or a unique identifier on a server. Future content sent to the user is further targeted based upon the updated location information.

In some forms of the invention the search feature may be integrated with one or many databases containing the inventories of stores. The user searches for specific products and results are returned from the inventory listings of the various stores. Stores that are along the paths the user typically travels on paths that the user is known to have traveled on or paths that are convenient to the user based upon their traveling habits are weighted accordingly in the returned search results. Furthermore stores that have the product in their inventory are weighted accordingly in the returned search results. Stores that do not have the product in their inventory may be removed from the result set completely. This information may also be sent as a notification to a user s mobile device when the user passes by a store that has a product that they have previously searched for in their inventory. In some forms of the invention there is an additional option to register that the user has already purchased the product and that future content geared at selling that particular product is not appreciated. Alternatively the fact that a user has satisfied their need for a particular good or service is learned from the purchase history associated with the user. The purchase history is provided through an integrated payment system or it may also be provided by the user the retailers or any other third party.

In some forms of the invention the system is further integrated with a payment system that is accessible from the mobile device and that assists with providing conversion tracking to advertisers retailers or other content producers. If the user of the mobile device pays through the payment system then the payment information is associated with other information in the system or other information coupled to the system. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if a user of a mobile device goes to a store and pays though the payment system on the mobile device not only does the system determine the store and the time spent at the store from location data but the amount of money spent at the store by the user. Furthermore in some forms of the invention the transaction information is used who was paid to verify or refine the accuracy of the system. Additionally it may be determined whether or not targeted content was previously sent to the device and if so how the user responded to the content. In some forms of the invention it may be determined if targeted content or an advertisement is viewed on a webpage or map and whether the user subsequently calls or visits the associated business location.

In some forms of the invention the system is interfaced with databases maintained or contributed to by credit card processing companies e.g. Visa MasterCard etc. . The payment information in these databases is coupled to the account of the user of a mobile device and their associated location information. If the user of the mobile device uses their credit card to purchase an item the location information associated with the particular business the credit card was used at is inserted into the location tracking portion of the system associated with the user. This information may also be processed to determine if the money was spent in response to an advertisement that was sent to the mobile device or viewed by the user on their computer.

In some forms of the invention the system is interfaced with electronic and other online payment systems such as Google Checkout or PayPal. This operates in a similar manner to the integration with the credit card information databases. The user pays through their mobile device or by obtaining a reference number from their mobile device provided by their online payment account which is used by the merchant to obtain the proper payment. Alternatively the user may pay by inserting an identifier associated with the merchant e.g. merchant ID email address associated with the merchant or the particular business location etc. into a form presented to them on their mobile device or computer. The location tracking then tracks the sale back to the user and the particular business location and associates the amount spent at the business location with the user. This information is optionally available to the producers of the targeted content so that they are able to analyze the effectiveness of the content and the associated sales numbers. They may then modify their advertisement campaigns in order to obtain improved conversion rates.

The data sets received from a mobile device subsequent to content being displayed may also be analyzed in order to determine if the content was viewed or acted upon by the user or if the content induced the user of the mobile device to visit a particular business. As previously discussed the location information is analyzed in order to determine the specific businesses a user of a mobile device likely visited. This method may also be used to determine if a user of a mobile device visited a business location after receiving targeted content associated with that business. Furthermore other actions taken by the user of a mobile device may be monitored. It may be determined whether or not a user ignored the targeted content. This may be determined by analyzing the location information to see if the user of the mobile device passed by the location indicated by the targeted content. It may be determined whether or not the user of the mobile device dismissed the notification saved the notification for display next time they pass by the location or some other user input into the mobile device that is associated with the targeted content. This information is used to determine the return on investment ROI and conversion tracking statistics. A conversion may occur when a user simply acknowledges the targeted content by clicking on it when the user visits a website associated with the targeted content visits a business location in response to an advertisement or visits the business location and makes a purchase. In some forms of the invention a conversion may be defined by the advertiser or many different categories of conversions may be defined.

In some forms of the invention Customer Relationship Management CRM Systems or Business Analytics systems are provided. Location data is aggregated from all users to determine visitor information associated with retail locations branded retail chains or any other geographic location or sets of locations. This may be used to determine of the number of new visitors and returning visitors during a specified time period and location or set of locations. Businesses are able to quickly determine the number of and type of customers that are visiting their business locations. This assists with the supply chains of the respective businesses customer relations management and financial predictions. This also allows large business chains to visualize which locations are more popular than other locations allowing the chains to optimize the locations where they choose to place their businesses.

For purposes of illustration and without limitation a chain of coffee house locations is able to visualize the number of visitors that have visited any one of their locations the number of new visitors in a given period of time the number of returning visitors in a period of time the average number of visits associated with returning visitors. The above statistics may be visualized with respect to all business locations a sub grouping of business locations or each individual business location. In forms of the invention where payment systems are integrated the average dollar amount spent per visit the revenue per store and a great deal of other information relevant to the businesses and their operation is revealed to the owners of the business.

For purposes of illustration and without limitation the metrics available to content producers may include the number of visits to their business location s as shown as a histogram on a timeline. The total number of visits to the locations the bounce rate e.g. may be displayed as a measure of the number of visitors that visit the store briefly possibly without purchasing anything and then leave the store possibly never returning to the store etc. the average time spent at the store a percentage of new visits to the store a breakdown of the geographic locations of where visitors come from or live e.g. the country state county city town neighborhood etc. the traffic source e.g. how the user arrived at the business location the path user took to get into the shopping complex what stores they visited before and after etc. visitor profiles including their languages network locations e.g. wireless service provider other demographic information about the users the new vs. returning visitors the trend of visitors over time the loyalty of visitors the recency of visitors e.g. may be displayed as a histogram of the percentage of all visitors as a function of time for purposes of illustration and without limitation 65 of all visitors in the past week visited one day ago on Saturday etc. a measure of the length and depth of the visit the capabilities of the mobile device of the visitors e.g. provides business ability to better tailor targeted content to the capabilities of the mobile devices used by their visitors etc. length of visit e.g. may be displayed as a histogram of the percentage of all visitors against the length of visit etc. items that were bought at the store correlated to any other metric described in this and related patent applications conversion goals which may include total conversions conversion rates and goal values. It is further provided that and any other metric may be visualized that is typically used or is desirable to the business including user defined metrics that are programmable or customizable by the business operator.

The gathered information may be used to forecast financial information associated with business locations as a service to clients or in order to profit through buying or shorting the particular businesses based on their forecasted performance. For purposes of illustration and without limitation reports may be provided to businesses of the various statistics associated with their business. Additionally or alternatively the information may be used by market analysts in order to provide investment opinions and determine whether or not the company s stock should be bought sold or held.

In some forms of the invention social uses are provided. Such social uses include determining a family member s location and reporting the name of the business at which the user of the mobile device is currently located. Currently there are systems that determining the approximate location of a family member s mobile device. One such system is the Sprint Family Locator service. This service uses the cellular network to triangulate the location of a family member s cellular phone and display the location on a map. However there are some problems with this that the current invention eliminates. Namely the location of the family member is simply provided as a dot with associated error radius on a map. The present invention provides the name of the business location at which the family member is currently located. For purposes of illustration and without limitation assume it is 1 30 AM on a Saturday night and the father of an 18 year old girl who lives across town and attends college wants to make sure she is safe. The father goes to the Sprint Family Locator website to locate his daughter s phone and sees that she is on the railroad tracks next to the airport. The father knows that this is an unsavory part of town and about 15 minutes driving distance away from where his daughter lives. The father is worried and calls his daughter who does not answer her phone. The father then calls his oldest son who lives near his 18 year old sister to see if he knows where his sister went. The oldest son calls his sister who answers the phone but is barely audible due to a great amount of background noise. Nevertheless the son is able to find out that the daughter is at a strip club near the airport with several of her friends. The 18 year old daughter then calls her father to let him know she is okay. All of this worrying may have been avoided had the locating service reported the daughter was at the particular strip club by the airport than simply near the railroad track by the airport. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the father would locate the daughter and would be notified that she is at the particular strip club near the airport. The notification may be displayed on a map as shown in or it may be a text based notification. In some forms of the invention multiple family members may be located at the same time. For purposes of illustration and without limitation referring to a list of family members and their locations may be displayed. Alternatively their locations may be displayed on a map and the business names either visible or accessible through a graphical user interface. Furthermore in some forms of the invention the name of the business location or the anticipated destination of the user is displayed to friends or family members when the user dials a call to friends or family members. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if a man is going to a grocery store or is at a grocery store and calls his wife his wife will see that he is going to the grocery store or is at the grocery store and that he probably wants to know if she would like anything. The wife can then determine if she wants to answer the call or if she misses the call she will have an idea what the call was about without listening to voicemail.

Another social use is aimed at locating friends in a similar fashion as the family location uses described above. In some forms of the invention there is more control over privacy settings associated with friends than to family members.

Another social use is to provide a user of a mobile device a list or map showing the current locations of his friends and names of the businesses where their friends are currently located. For purposes of illustration and without limitation on a Friday night instead of a user calling or texting each of his friends to find out where they are going out the user is able to pull up a list as shown in or a map showing the names of the businesses at which the user s friends or family are currently located. This list or map view may optionally contain the names of each of the user s friends associated with the list of business locations at which they are located as shown in . In some forms of the invention the names of the establishments that a user s friends are currently at may be shown but the names of the user s friends at the various establishments will not be shown unless the user is also located at the particular establishment as well. For purposes of illustration and without limitation referring to the user of the mobile device will see a list of the establishments that their friends are currently located at and the number of friends at each establishment. If the user of the mobile device were to proceed to Dos Gringos then a listing of the user s friends that are at Dos Gringos becomes available to the user of the mobile device however the user of the mobile device is not provided a listing of his friend s that are located at any of the other establishments on the list. Referring again to some forms of the invention provide an indication as to the number of friends that have stayed at their respective houses for the evening or otherwise have decided not to go out to socialize.

In some forms of the invention the system is interfaced with one or many social networking websites e.g. Facebook MySpace Friendster LinkedIn etc. . A link may be established with the social networking website in order to define their friends and provide location information or permission to view location information to their friends this may be done through an API provided by the social networking web site. Alternatively the system may provide its own address book in which a user maintains a list of their friends and any associated security settings or permission settings. Furthermore in various forms of the invention the location privacy settings may be configured from the social networking site from another portion of the system or from within the mobile device or cellular phone itself.

In some forms of the invention users are able to notify their friends and family of the business locations they are currently located at or planning to go to later. Furthermore optionally the owner of the business location may enable a commission feature that allows the user who sent the notification to obtain a percentage of the money their friends spend at the business location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation Albert notifies his friends Betty and Curtis that he is going to Dos Gringos Bar to meet up at their Happy Hour. Both Betty and Curtis come to Dos Gringos it is registered that their location is in fact at Dos Gringos. Then Betty orders food and pays with a credit card and Dave orders food and drinks and pays with an online payment system over his mobile device. In forms of the invention where the system is interfaced with credit card payment systems is able to calculate a commission based on Betty s payment. In forms of the invention where the system is interfaced with an online payment system the commission due to Albert based upon Dave s purchase is calculated. Furthermore if Curtis notifies Dave then Curtis may obtain some commission as well as Albert obtaining some commission based upon Dave s purchase. In some instances it may be desirable to offer a fixed commission for drawing friends to a certain location. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if Albert invites Betty Eden Faith and Gloria to Dos Gringos Dos Gringos may pay Albert a commission for bringing girls to the bar. The bar may pay Albert a commission only for girls that he invites that are within a certain age range or demographic group that the bar is targeting. Alternatively the bar may pay the girls to come to the bar as an incentive to visit the bar. The payment in some instances is based upon the length of time the users of the respective mobile devices stay at the location and the amount of money spent at the location. Additionally a business location may offer increased payment for enticing someone who has never been to the particular location or particular business to go to the business. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if Albert invites Betty and Dave to Dos Gringos but it is Dave s first time at any Dos Gringos bar then Albert receives a higher commission for Dave than if Dave had never previously been to a Dos Gringos location.

Another social use relies on aggregate location data associated with many users in order to provide information on which business locations are currently popular sparse or empty. In various situations any of these cases may be desirable. The system has access to the reported locations of a number of mobile devices. It may be determined the business locations that the mobile devices are present at. Another user of the system accesses this aggregate location information from their mobile device or from a standard web browser in order to determine which business locations are currently busy. If the user of the system wants to go out to a busy nightclub they are able to determine which nightclubs are the most popular on that particular night. If the user of the system wants to have a nice quiet dinner out they are able to see which restaurants are not busy and are therefore likely be quiet and not be a problem to get into. The system indicates how busy the business is based upon the square footage of the business. Alternatively the system may base this indication using any combination of the type of business the square footage of the business the maximum occupancy of the business the typical number of users at the business e.g. more or less popular than normal or any other metric. The indication is displayed overlaid on a map. The system may display this indication as a gradient percentage index value arbitrary number on a map or in list not overlaid on a map. For purposes of illustration and without limitation referring to the user of the mobile device is interested in going out to Mill Avenue in Tempe Ariz. and pulls up a map showing the area. The map displays Mill Avenue and all of the businesses located on the street some businesses that are actually present are omitted from for purposes of simplicity . For purposes of illustration and without limitation the map may include The Tavern Caf Boa Rula Bula Fascinations Club Cherry Ra Sushi The Big Bang The Library Hooters and Club 301 located on different levels of the same building Big Fat Greek Restaurant Urban Outfitter Zuma Cue Club Uno Pizzeria Fat Tuesdays Coffee Plantation American Apparel Cold Stone Creamery The Post Office Starbucks Fatburger Taco Del Mar and The Coconut Club . A user looking at the map is able to see that Ra Sushi is relatively empty and knows that they are able to easily get a table and eat some Sushi. Furthermore a user looking at this map would know that Zuma and Cue Club are very busy and therefore it may be fun to go there to see if they run into anyone they know or possibly meet new people. In some forms of the invention the user may click on a business location to get more information such as the name of the business a description of the business ratings a menu status messages of users currently at the business location comments associated with the location or other information. In the case of The Big Bang The Library Hooters and Club 301 which are on different floors of the same building the user may click on the business location to see a breakdown of the number of people at each establishment and to obtain information on one of the particular establishments in that building. In some forms of the invention the user is able to filter the types of business locations that are displayed on the map. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a user may filter so that only bars and nightclubs are displayed. Referring again to if the user filtered for bars clubs and restaurants only the following businesses are displayed The Tavern Caf Boa Rula Bula Club Cherry Ra The Big Bang The Library Hooters and Club 301 located on different levels of the same building Big Fat Greek Restaurant Zuma Cue Club Uno Pizzeria Fat Tuesdays Fatburger Taco Del Mar and The Coconut Club . In some forms of the invention only businesses that are currently open e.g. the current time is within their hours of operation are displayed on the map. Furthermore in some forms of the invention the user may configure the display to show alternative information such as the ratio of women to men at each particular establishment or only the number of men or women at each establishment. In some forms of the invention a user is able to search for particular types of businesses and see which locations are the most popular. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a user may search for coffee houses and obtain a list or a map of the coffee houses in the area with a ranking indicating their popularity or the number of people at each location. Another example may be a user who is in Chicago on business and is unfamiliar with popular restaurants in the area. The user may search for all restaurants ranked by the number of people currently at the restaurants. The user may search for all pizza restaurants ranked by the number of people currently at the restaurants. The user may even search for all pizza restaurants ranked by the number of people from Chicago currently at the restaurant e.g. if the user wants to experience authentic Chicago pizza and not a restaurant that mainly caters to tourists .

In alternate forms of the invention a list of business locations along with an indication of how popular the business is currently is provided to the user of the mobile device. For instance depicts a listing of various business locations and a measure of the popularity of the business. This may be a ratio of the number of people to the square footage of the business location the number of people as a ratio to the legal capacity of the business location the number of people at that club compared to other clubs or any other measurement.

In some forms of the invention are integrated with navigation systems. The navigation system is able to retrieve favored routes remember prior routes provide for routes near businesses of interests and interface with advertisements as previously described. In some forms of the invention the advertisement allows a user to insert the business location as an intermediate location in the guidance to the final destination.

In some forms of this aspect of the invention the navigation system is coupled to the power or fuel management system of the car. The navigation system may automatically place gas stations or recharging stations in the route guidance or highlight them on the map when it is determined that the car needs to be refueled or recharged. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a user may request driving directions for a long trip the navigation software retrieves targeted content for service stations along the route the navigation automatically inserts an intermediate destination at a service station when the gas tank is about a certain percentage empty or when the batteries are about a certain percentage discharged. The certain percentage may be set by user preference. The servicing stations selected may be based upon a particular brand of service station that is preferred by the user.

In some forms of the invention the navigation system is not integrated with the car but instead is able to communicate wirelessly with the ECU or computer that controls the car in order to obtain information such as battery charge or fuel levels. The mobile device with navigation connects to the ECU with a wireless technology such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth. Alternatively the mobile device coupled to the Internet or other network and the car ECU is coupled to the Internet or other network. The mobile device and the ECU communicate through the Internet or other network.

In more advanced forms of the navigation integration mass scale organized route control may be provided. A central system hands out suggested routes in order to minimize congestion and optimize e.g. minimize the overall travel time for everyone. This may be accomplished through standard optimization techniques known in the art e.g. gradient optimization genetic algorithms neural network based solutions etc. . The desired destination or anticipated route is obtained compares it with known traffic conditions and the other proposed routes that are known and returns the optimized route to the mobile device. In some forms of the invention the routes are updated as conditions change.

In some forms of the invention the system is integrated with a Telephony or Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP system or systems e.g. Skype Yahoo Voice Google Talk Vonage Gizmo G Asterisk PBX Cellular Data or any phone system based on Session Initiation Protocol SIP etc. . The phone numbers of businesses dialed and the location of the dialed business are associated with the user of the mobile device s account. It is then determined whether the user subsequently visits the business location.

It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems that communicate phone numbers that a user dials to a remote system in order to assist with tracking the effectiveness of advertising materials. For purposes of illustration and without limitation software running on a mobile device periodically reports the telephone numbers dialed web addresses visited or any other such information to a remote server. In the case of telephone numbers that are reported to a remote server the businesses contacted by the user of the device may be determined.

Some forms of the invention record all of or a portion of the telephone conversation for review by the business or by the user that initiated the call . The business may determine which type of phone calls result in visits to their business location. The interests of the user of the mobile device are further refined by analyzing the phone numbers dialed by the user.

The system may expand the geographic area of targeted content associated with the user based on the numbers the user dials. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the user dials a phone number of a business off the path of the user s typical travels results for other businesses in that area are weighed more so than it would have prior to the user calling the business in the new area.

In some forms of the invention the system notifies the user who dials the phone number associated with a business of a more convenient business or location before completing the call. The system may not notify the user if the user recently visited the more convenient location or called the more convenient location. The notification is in the form of a text message alert or other notification displayed on the mobile device but it may also be an audio message played before the call is completed. The notification provides the user with the option of dialing the phone number for the more convenient business location and may also allow for a map showing the more convenient location.

In forms of the invention interfaced with inventory data it may be determined whether the more convenient store has an item or type of item the user previously searched for or that it may be determined that the user would be interested in in its inventory. If the store has the item then the notification includes this information however this may be omitted. The price and price difference between the item at the more convenient business and the dialed business may also be included in the notification.

In some forms of the invention the notification is not sent when the price is greater by a threshold value or percentage when compared to the price at the dialed business location. If it is determined that the dialed business location does not have the item a notification of a store that does have the item even if less convenient is provided. If no more convenient stores have the item but the dialed store does have the item then the system does not send a notification however in other forms of the invention the system may still send a notification.

In some various forms of the invention the telephony integration is interfaced with conversion tracking e.g. provides the ability for a business to track calls that result in visits or sales etc. credit card or other payment information and other systems described in this and related patent applications.

In some forms of the invention information specific to the particular business location is sent to the phone. For instance a user of the device enters a store it may be determined that the user has entered the store and an image including a map of the store is sent to the mobile device. Alternatively the current specials of a store are sent to the user or the location of a particular item in the store. For instance a user of the mobile device enters a Border s book store. It may be determined that the user has entered the store and sends a map of the particular store to the user. The user submits a query for a particular book. An image of the location of the particular book overlaid on the map of the store is returned to the mobile device.

In some forms of the invention Bluetooth RFID or other short range wireless transceivers are placed throughout the business location. The mobile device connects to the wireless transceivers with the best signal e.g. the closest one or is scanned by a wireless scanner and the user s location in the store is determined. Targeted content based upon the location of the user in the store is sent to the user. For instance the user queries the location of a particular book and a map is returned with directions from the current location of the mobile device in the store to the location where the book is on the shelf. Additionally a user of a mobile device may hit a button for help which would then alert a store employee that a customer needs assistance and indicate where the customer is located in the store. In some forms of the invention these short range wireless technologies may also assist in providing the name of the business location at which the user of the mobile device is currently located.

The inventive methods and systems may be used on a variety of different mobile devices such as small or simple sell phones smart phones Apple s iPhone UMPC computers wristwatches laptop computers car navigation systems or any other computerized device. Therefore there are a variety of different user interfaces that may be implemented when used on mobile devices of varying capabilities and screen sizes.

With reference to the top portion of the screen or map portion contains a map showing the current location of the mobile device and a business of interest to the user . The lower portion of the screen or options potion contains the name of the business location and may also contain targeted content. The lower portion of the screen also may contain options that are available to the user. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the user may request more information about the business location add the business location as a destination save the business location for notification later or dismiss the notification.

With reference to the map portion of the screen displays the location of the mobile device a business of interest to the user of the mobile device the anticipated or actual destination of the user the anticipated or actual route of the user an information section with targeted content and options available to the user and an area with turn by turn directions . There may be many businesses of interest simultaneously displayed on the map but the targeted content may only be shown in the options portion of the screen for the next business location along the route in the list of targeted content. Alternatively the options portion may cycle through the list of targeted content along the route while indicating the corresponding business location on the map portion .

With reference to there is a notification bubble that optionally contains a map portion and targeted content. The notification bubble is accessed from a notification indicator and appears on top of another application running on the mobile device. If a user clicks on the notification indicator the notification may be hidden. If a user clicks outside of the notification bubble the notification bubble may be dismissed or hidden. If the user clicks inside of the notification bubble a number of other options are available such as more information about the business location the option to add the business location s a destination in the route guidance the option to save the business location for later review or notification the option to dismiss the notification or any other option. The notification bubble may only appear when the mobile device determines it is idle or that the user has not provided input for a period of time. If the mobile device is not idle then the notification indicator may flash or otherwise indicate a notification is available without disrupting the user with the notification bubble . In some forms of the invention when the mobile device is not idle or instead of showing a notification bubble when the device is idle a ticker across a portion of the screen scrolls the targeted content so that the user is not interrupted but they are able to view the notification. This is exemplary and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. As shown and described a person having ordinary skill in the art is able to implement the invention in any number of varying forms. Generally the inventive user interface contains an indication of the anticipated or actual route and a business of interest along the route that is obtained from targeted content sent to the mobile device.

With reference to there is a search input and a result listing . The result listing is sorted in order of convenience to the user based on the routes they take most often. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if a user has traveled along a particular path 59 times and another path 39 times the ice cream store along the path more traveled will be ranked higher than the ice cream store along the path less traveled. If an anticipated or actual route for the user is known the results may be listed in order of convenience of access from their anticipated or actual route. The results may be formatted for display on a personal computer or on a mobile device.

With reference to there is a search input and a result listing . The map shows the routes that the user has previously taken and the search results along those routes in order of convenience to the user. For purposes of illustration and without limitation result is the easiest ice cream location for the user of the mobile device to access result is the second easiest for the user of the mobile device to access and result is the third easiest location for the user of the mobile device to access based upon the routes that the user of the mobile device has previously taken. Result is not along a path that the user has traveled on before and therefore this result is weighed less heavily. The location may be less convenient to access than the other locations based upon the travel habits of the user or it may be easy to access but the user has never happened to drive along that path. In forms of the invention with an integrated coupon system a coupon may be offered to the user to entice them to try the particular establishment. In forms of the coupon system where the value of the coupon is determined based upon various factors a coupon of increased value may be offered to entice the user to visit the location as a first time customer to that particular location or that particular brand of business location. If the user of it may be determined an anticipated route or an actual route for the user of the mobile device this route may be displayed on the map view. Furthermore the search results may be ordered based on the convenience for the user of the mobile device to access each result from their current anticipated or actual route.

In various forms of the invention a user interface is provided to content producers and advertisers. With reference to there is a content ID input filed where the content producer may create a name for their targeted content. There is a business location menu that allows the content producer to associate the content ID with all of their business locations a subset of their business locations or a single business location. There is an optional link field and there is a content description field that allows the content producer to further persuade the recipients of the targeted content to visit the associated business locations. Additionally or alternatively other fields not shown may be included. For purposes of illustration and without limitation a content producer may limit the demographic segments that the targeted content is sent to. There may be inputs that allow the content producer to limit the recipients of the content to users in a certain age group users of a certain sex or users with certain keywords associated with their user profile. There may also be inputs that allow content producers to closely control their advertisement campaigns so that content is only sent out during business hours or is sent out to certain demographics at all times but sent to other demographics only at other times. For purposes of illustration and without limitation an ice cream shop may send targeted content to teenagers during all hours of operation but only send notifications to older adults during the hottest hours during summer afternoons and after 6 00 pm when older adults may be interested in having ice cream for dessert. Similarly the advertisements sent to teenagers may emphasize the affordability and number of flavors while the advertisements sent to older adults may emphasize low calorie ice cream.

Content producers may indicate their business location or locations using any one of a number of methods. In one form of the invention the content producer indicates their business locations by being presented a map or a satellite image of the area in which their business is located. Then they are asked to draw a polygon around their business location. Alternatively they may be asked to cover their business location with a number of small circles or by selecting a number of points and associate a radius with each point until their business location is sufficiently covered. The content producer may also be shown the polygons or other shapes similarly overlaid on adjacent businesses to ensure that the content producer does not overlap the location of the business with another business. Alternatively the geographic boundaries of various business locations may be obtained from land records or other databases.

Content producers may also look at various statistics associated with their various advertisement campaigns. With reference to the user interface includes an identification of the content ID and a table of data . The table of data may include several columns such as a column for the date a column for the number of views a column for the number of visits to the business location or locations indicated by the content the number of the visits that were return visits the number of induced sales and the revenue or a ROI value see e.g. reference numeral . The data may also be displayed in graphical or chart form.

In some forms of the invention the content producers or advertisers may be presented a map showing the common entrance and exit routes that their visitors take into and out of their complex the stores that the customers visited immediately before and immediately after visiting the business location they visited that was associated with the targeted content the locations where users were notified of targeted content where the users viewed the targeted content if the users ignored the targeted content if the users saved the targeted content the routes the users that received the targeted content were taking the items purchased by specific visitors the number of times that a particular visitor visited the business location associated with the targeted content the areas where visitors of their business locations live a breakdown of the demographics for the visitors to the business location a breakdown or revenue by the demographics of the visitors to the business location and all associated data broken down by time of day and day of week. In some forms of the invention a content producer may be able to view a matrix or other display of this data across their various business locations so that the content producer is able to tailor each business location for the type of visitors the respective locations typically entertain.

In some forms of the invention methods and systems are provided that determine if a viewer of a video advertisement e.g. placed before after or during an online video takes an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement. A video advertisement is placed before during e.g. as a commercial break superimposed on the video watermarked etc. or after the desired video content. The video advertisement is associated with an advertiser. The advertiser is associated with at least one of a phone number an email address a website a merchant ID number a business name or one or more physical business locations. The user is associated with an identifier on a website that hosts the video content the identifier is either associated with the user s mobile device or the identifier is coupled to a second identifier in another system that is associated with the user s mobile device. When the video advertisement is played an indication that the advertisement was displayed to the user is recorded. Then the user may respond to the advertisement in the future by dialing the phone number of the advertiser sending an email to the advertiser visiting the website of the advertiser making a purchase using a credit card or other payment system with the advertiser or going to a physical business location of the advertiser. If the user performs any of the aforementioned actions subsequent to viewing the video advertisement the actions taken by the user are recorded and associated with the user the business or both.

In some forms of the invention methods and systems are provided that determine if a viewer of a video advertisement played on a Digital Video Recorder DVR or other digital video playback device e.g. TiVo Apple TV Digital Cable boxes Satellite TV Receivers etc. takes an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement. A video advertisement is placed before during e.g. as a commercial break superimposed on the video superimposed over the video only when the video is in fast forward watermarked etc. or after the desired video content. Alternatively the advertisement may not be displayed before during or after the video but is instead placed as a featured item on a menu in the DVR. In another alternative advertisements that are placed before during or after the video as well as advertisements placed in menus are employed. The video advertisement is associated with an advertiser. The advertiser is associated with at least one of a phone number an email address a website a merchant ID number a business name or one or more physical business locations. The user is associated with an identifier the identifier is either associated with the user s mobile device or the identifier is coupled to a second identifier in another system that is associated with the user s mobile device. When the video advertisement is played an indication that the advertisement was displayed to the user is recorded. Then the user may respond to the advertisement in the future by dialing the phone number of the advertiser sending an email to the advertiser visiting the website of the advertiser making a purchase using a credit card or other payment system with the advertiser or going to a physical business location of the advertiser. If the user performs any of the aforementioned actions subsequent to viewing the video advertisement the actions taken by the user are recorded and associated with the user the business or both.

In some forms of the invention methods and systems are provided that determine if a user is in proximity to a print advertisement whether it is likely that the user read the print advertisement and if the user performed an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement. With reference to a print advertisement has a near field identification tag e.g. Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag Bluetooth chip etc. embedded into the advertisement or affixed to the advertisement with adhesive or tape. A mobile device with a near field reader e.g. RFID reader etc. reads the near field identification tag on the advertisement . The mobile device then registers that it was in proximity to the particular advertisement with system . System may be either a remote system or a subsystem or other application or database within the mobile device . In some forms of the invention the mobile device will only register that it was in proximity to the particular advertisement if the user is in proximity to the advertisement for a sufficient time that it was likely the user saw and read the advertisement. This may depend on the type of print advertisement. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if the advertisement is a flier placed on a car windshield the period of time required may only be a few seconds whereas if the advertisement is a menu for a restaurant then the period of time required may be a few minutes. The advertisement is associated with a particular advertiser through the identification number on the near field identification tag . The near field identification tag may contain an identification number unique to the advertiser or one that is unique for each advertisement. Instead of near field identification a barcode or other coded image may be used. A user may use the camera on their mobile device to take a picture of the coded image. The picture of the coded image is processed to obtain the encoded identifying information which is then reported to system .

In some forms of the invention methods and systems are provided that determine if a user views a public advertisement e.g. Billboard Sign Poster and takes an action e.g. calling a phone number associated with the advertisement visiting a business location associated with the advertisement etc. after viewing the advertisement. With reference to billboard along roads or paths is visible to a user who passes through either of areas . Geographic location information representing areas may either be sent to the mobile device or maintained in another portion of the system remote from the mobile device. If a user passes through either of areas then the mobile device will either notify the system that the user was able to view billboard or the mobile device will simply report the position to the other portion of the system remote from the mobile device that determines the location of the mobile device was within either area . If the user subsequently dials a phone number associated with the business advertised on billboard visits a website of the business advertised on billboard visits a store location of the business advertised on billboard or takes any other action in response to the advertisement on billboard the action is recorded. This information may be provided to the advertiser or used by the company that uses the billboard to determine the effectiveness or pricing of the advertisement. Similarly with reference to billboard along road or path is visible to a user who passes through area . Geographic location information representing area may either be sent to the mobile device or maintained in another portion of the system remote from the mobile device. If a user passes through area then the mobile device will either notify the system that the user was able to view billboard or the mobile device will simply report the position to the other portion of the system remote from the mobile device that determines the location of the mobile device was within area . If the user subsequently dials a phone number associated with the business advertised on billboard visits a website of the business advertised on billboard visits a store location of the business advertised on billboard or takes any other action in response to the advertisement on billboard the action is recorded. This information may be provided to the advertiser or used by the company that uses the billboard to determine the effectiveness or pricing of the advertisement.

With reference to billboard along road or path is visible to a user who passes through area . Geographic location information representing area may either be sent to the mobile device or maintained in another portion of the system remote from the mobile device. If a user passes through area then the mobile device will either notify the system that the user was able to view billboard or the mobile device will simply report the position to the other portion of the system remote from the mobile device that determines the location of the mobile device was within area . In this figure area represents an area where the user is likely to have viewed all of the advertisements displayed on billboard . Billboard may contain several advertisements that rotate and are only visible one at a time or the advertiser may desire users to be exposed to the advertisement for a threshold period of time so that the user can absorb the full content of the advertisement. If the user subsequently dials a phone number associated with the business advertised on billboard visits a website of the business advertised on billboard visits a store location of the business advertised on billboard or takes any other action in response to the advertisement on billboard the action is recorded. This information may be provided to the advertiser or used by the company that uses the billboard to determine the effectiveness or pricing of the advertisement.

With reference to billboard along road or path is visible to a user who passes through area . Geographic location information representing area may either be sent to the mobile device or maintained in another portion of the system remote from the mobile device. If a user passes through area then the mobile device will either notify the system that the user was able to view billboard or the mobile device will simply report the position to the other portion of the system remote from the mobile device that determines the location of the mobile device was within area . In this figure area represents an area where the user is likely to have viewed all of the advertisements displayed on billboard regardless of whether the user was driving along road or path . Thus if there are shopping centers parking lots or other places where potential customers are likely able to view billboard the views and conversions pertaining to those individuals are recorded. If the user subsequently dials a phone number associated with the business advertised on billboard visits a website of the business advertised on billboard visits a store location of the business advertised on billboard or takes any other action in response to the advertisement on billboard the action is recorded. This information may be provided to the advertiser or used by the company that uses the billboard to determine the effectiveness or pricing of the advertisement.

With reference to billboard along road or path and road or path is visible to a user who passes through either area or area . Billboard may display different advertisements on each side. Geographic location information representing areas and may either be sent to the mobile device or maintained in another portion of the system remote from the mobile device. If a user passes through either area or area then the mobile device will either notify the system that the user was able to view a particular side of billboard or the mobile device will simply report the position to the other portion of the system remote from the mobile device that determines the location of the mobile device was within either area or area . If the user subsequently dials a phone number associated with the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard visits a website of the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard visits a store location of the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard or takes any other action in response to the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard the action is recorded. This information may be provided to the advertiser or used by the company that uses the billboard to determine the effectiveness or pricing of the advertisement.

With reference to billboard along road or path is visible to a user who passes through area . Geographic location information representing area may either be sent to the mobile device or maintained in another portion of the system remote from the mobile device. If a user passes through area then the mobile device will either notify the system that the user was able to view billboard or the mobile device will simply report the position to the other portion of the system remote from the mobile device that determines the location of the mobile device was within area . In this figure area represents an area where the user is likely to have viewed all of the advertisements displayed on billboard . If the user subsequently dials a phone number associated with the business advertised on billboard visits a website of the business advertised on billboard visits a store location of the business advertised on billboard or takes any other action in response to the advertisement on billboard the action is recorded. This information may be provided to the advertiser or used by the company that uses the billboard to determine the effectiveness or pricing of the advertisement.

With reference to advertisement display along road or path is visible to users that pass through areas and . Billboard may display different advertisements on each side or in different sections around its circumference. Geographic location information representing areas and may either be sent to the mobile device or maintained in another portion of the system remote from the mobile device. If a user passes through either area or then the mobile device will either notify the system that the user was able to view a particular side of billboard or the mobile device will simply report the position to the other portion of the system remote from the mobile device that determines the location of the mobile device was within either area or . If the user subsequently dials a phone number associated with the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard visits a website of the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard visits a store location of the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard or takes any other action in response to the business advertisement they were likely to have viewed on billboard the action is recorded. This information may be provided to the advertiser or used by the company that uses the billboard to determine the effectiveness or pricing of the advertisement.

In some forms of the invention methods and systems are provided that determine if a user visits a business location through word of mouth advertising e.g. a friend of a user mentioned a particular business location and the user subsequently visits the business location . The mobile device records unique identifying numbers of other devices that it is in proximity with. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the Wi Fi or Bluetooth MAC addresses of each device could be used as the unique identifying number. If one mobile device is within wireless range of another device the unique numbers are recorded. These numbers may be recorded on the device a remote system or recorded on the device and sent to a remote system. Thus if one user of the system visits a store comes within wireless contact of another user of the system and then the other use of the system visits the store it is likely that the first user communicated with the second user about the store. Optionally the time that the two devices are in proximity with one another may be used to determine the likelihood of two users communicating. Additionally the frequency that the two devices are in proximity to one another can also be used to determine the likelihood that word of mouth advertising took place.

In some forms of the invention methods and systems are provided that interface location based services with social networking websites. For purposes of illustration and without limitation if a user of the system is invited to an event the user will be registered to have attended the event when the user s location corresponds to location of event at time event is taking place. This may only be registered if the user was invited to the event. A user may be invited to a house party that is to take place from 10 PM 2 AM on a Friday Saturday night. The invitation shows up on the event website or social networking website that is interfaced with the system. The user has the option to RSVP but the user does not. Then at 11 PM on Friday the user s location corresponds to the location of the party. The system then registers that the user attended the event. In contrast if a user of the social networking site creates an event to meet up with a few of their friends at a popular bar the system will not register people at the bar as having attended the event on the social networking or event planning web site. For further illustration without limitation a review website may only allow reviews of a business location if the user has previously been to the business location. Additionally the review site may require that the review of the business location is made while the user is at the location or within a certain amount of time after the user leaves the business location. In some further forms of the invention methods and systems are provided that interface location based services with social networking websites by displaying location information on the users profile page e.g. favorite business locations favorite bars favorite restaurants marked locations etc. managing location privacy permissions to friends and family or displaying location based advertisements to the user based on their location information.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate many aspects of the invention and the various forms of the invention can beneficially be practiced alone and need not be coupled together. Unless specifically stated otherwise no aspect of the invention should be construed as requiring combination with another aspect of the invention in practice. However those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the aspects of the invention may be combined in any way imaginable to yield one of the various forms of this invention. For purposes of illustration and without limitation one form of the invention may consist only of location reporting features while another form of the invention may comprise location reporting features and conversion tracking features and while yet another form of the invention does not include location reporting features but includes any one or more of the other features discussed above.

