---

title: Methods and apparatus of an anode/cathode (A/C) junction fuel cell with solid electrolyte
abstract: The present invention relates to a fuel cell having an anode; a cathode opposing the anode; a first electrolyte membrane disposed between the anode and the cathode; a second electrolyte membrane disposed between the anode and the cathode; and an A/C junction electrode disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane, the A/C junction electrode comprising a first gas diffusion layer; a second gas diffusion layer; a current collector disposed between the first gas diffusion layer and the second gas diffusion layer; a first catalyst layer disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the first gas diffusion layer; and a second catalyst layer disposed between the second electrolyte membrane and the second gas diffusion layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537167&OS=09537167&RS=09537167
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09537167
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140123
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to an electrochemical device and more particularly to a fuel cell for generating hydrogen gas electrical power and mediation of electrochemical reactions and reactant transport.

A fuel cell is an electrochemical device for directly converting chemical energy to electricity with higher efficiency than that of mechanical generators. A rapidly expanding need for electric power sources has stimulated the worldwide research and development of fuel cells for transportation portable computer cellular phone and various electronic devices. Typically a fuel cell is assembled using a 2 electrode configuration. The cathode or positive electrode is coated with a catalyst for oxygen reduction. The anode is coated with a catalyst for fuel oxidation. An electrolyte between the cathode and the anode provides ionic conductivity for ion transport and induces the electrochemical reactions at the electrode electrolyte interface.

A fuel cell generally uses liquid or gaseous fuel such as alcohol or hydrogen. In a hydrogen fuel cell the electrode reactions is 

An electro oxidized molecule of hydrogen generates two protons and two electrons. Meanwhile a molecule of oxygen is electro reduced by receiving four electrons. The electro reduced molecule of oxygen combines with 4 protons to form two molecules of water. The theoretical cell voltage of such a fuel cell is 1.23 V. However because of slow kinetic rate and high over potential for oxygen electro reduction the actual cell voltage is only 1.0 V in open circuit and 0.75 V in operational status.

An electro oxidized molecule of methanol generates one molecule of carbon dioxide six protons and six electrons. The theoretical voltage for a methanol oxygen fuel cell is 1.21V. However due to very slow kinetics and high over potential of methanol electro oxidation such a fuel cell has only 0.7 V for open circuit voltage and 0.4 V in operational status. Furthermore the greatest challenge for direct alcohol fuel cell is fuel crossover from the anode to the cathode leading to cathode depolarization decreasing overall fuel cell s voltage and lowering fuel efficiency. Fuel crossover is a greater problem with increasing fuel concentration. In order to reduce fuel crossover generally a fuel cell can use only very low concentration of fuel for example less than 1 M for a methanol fuel cell.

Therefore the inventors have provided an improved fuel cell for generating hydrogen gas electrical power and mediation of electrochemical reactions and reactant transport.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a fuel cell which may include an anode a cathode opposing the anode a first electrolyte membrane disposed between the anode and the cathode a second electrolyte membrane disposed between the anode and the cathode and an A C junction electrode disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane the A C junction electrode comprising a first gas diffusion layer a second gas diffusion layer a current collector disposed between the first gas diffusion layer and the second gas diffusion layer a first catalyst layer disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the first gas diffusion layer and a second catalyst layer disposed between the second electrolyte membrane and the second gas diffusion layer.

In some embodiments a method of generating electric power may include a supplying air and fuel to a fuel cell comprising i an anode ii a cathode iii a first electrolyte membrane disposed between the anode and the cathode iv a second electrolyte membrane disposed between the anode and the cathode and v an A C junction electrode disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane the A C junction electrode comprising 1 a first gas diffusion layer 2 a second gas diffusion layer 3 a first current collector disposed between the first gas diffusion layer and the second gas diffusion layer 4 a first catalyst layer disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the first gas diffusion layer and 5 a second catalyst layer disposed between the second electrolyte membrane and the second gas diffusion layer wherein the fuel is supplied to the anode and the air is supplied to the cathode and b supplying a first voltage to the fuel cell to process the fuel into hydrogen.

Embodiments of the present invention include an anode cathode A C junction fuel cell. The fuel cell in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention advantageously functions as a hydrogen air fuel cell using hydrogen to generate electricity from an alcohol fuel. In some embodiments the fuel cell in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention advantageously functions as an alcohol air fuel cell.

A first electrolyte membrane and a second electrolyte membrane are disposed between the anode and the cathode . In some embodiments the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane can be an acidic membrane for example a perfluorosulfonic acid membrane such as Nafion Du Pont or XUS membrane Dow Chemical or the like. In some embodiments the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane can be an alkaline membrane composed of for example a Tokuyama A201 membrane or the like. In some embodiments the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane are composed of Nafion . The first and second electrolyte membranes provide ionic conductivity for ion transport and induce electrochemical reactions at the electrode electrolyte interface.

An A C junction electrode is disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane . depicts a cross sectional view of the A C junction electrode as positioned between the first electrolyte membrane and the second electrolyte membrane in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. The A C junction electrode comprises a first gas diffusion layer a second gas diffusion layer an A C junction electrode current collector a first catalyst layer and a second catalyst layer .

The A C junction electrode current collector is disposed between the first gas diffusion layer and the second gas diffusion layer . In some embodiments the A C junction electrode current collector is composed of for example graphite titanium or other inert metals. In some embodiments the A C junction electrode current collector is a titanium sheet having a thickness of about 0.5 mm. The A C junction electrode current collector comprises a cathodic surface i.e. an anode facing surface and an anodic surface i.e. a cathode facing surface . The cathodic surface provides the potential to reduce protons to hydrogen at the catalyst electrolyte interface. The anodic surface provides the potential to oxidize hydrogen or fuel at the catalyst electrolyte interface. In some embodiments the current collector may have any suitable area for example an area of about 1 cmto about 25 cm. The A C junction electrode current collector has a plurality of pores . In some embodiments the A C junction electrode current collector comprises a plurality of large pores for example about 1.4 mm to about 3.4 mm in diameter and a plurality of small pores for example about 0.5 mm to about 1.4 mm in diameter. In some embodiments the A C junction electrode current collector has an area of about 9 cm where the large pores have a diameter of about 3.4 mm and the small pores have a diameter of about 1.4 mm resulting in a total pore area of about 3.65 cmand a total non pore area of about 5.35 cm.

The first gas diffusion layer and the second gas diffusion layer are hydrophobic to allow permeation of gas while limiting the permeation of water. In some embodiments the first gas diffusion layer and the second gas diffusion layer comprise Teflon treated carbon cloth or carbon paper or a porous metal layer such as nickel foam or titanium foam with a Teflon content of about 20 to about 40 . In some embodiments the first gas diffusion layer and the second gas diffusion layer have a thickness of about 0.1 to about 0.6 mm for example about 0.3 mm.

The first catalyst layer is disposed between the first electrolyte membrane and the first gas diffusion layer . The first catalyst layer is a cathode catalyst. In some embodiments the cathode catalyst is composed of for example platinum black or a platinum cobalt PtCo alloy or platinum supported on carbon black PtC . In some embodiments the cathode catalyst is used for cathodic reactions such as oxygen reduction at the cathode or proton reduction at the A C junction electrode . In some embodiments the cathode catalyst is formed using a mixture of 90 weight platinum black and 10 weight dry Nafion and coated onto a 0.2 mm carbon cloth and dried at 80 degrees Celsius.

The second catalyst layer is disposed between the second electrolyte membrane and the second gas diffusion layer . In some embodiments the second catalyst layer is an anode catalyst. In some embodiments the anode catalyst is for example platinum ruthenium PtRu or platinum tin PtSn or platinum molybdenum PtMo . In some embodiments the anode catalyst is used for anodic reactions such as fuel oxidation at the anode or hydrogen oxidation at the A C junction electrode . In some embodiments the anode catalyst is formed using a mixture of 85 weight platinum ruthenium and 15 weight dry Nafion coated onto a 0.2 mm carbon cloth and dried at 80 degrees Celsius.

A third catalyst layer is disposed adjacent the second electrolyte membrane and opposite the second catalyst layer . The third catalyst layer is a cathode catalyst supporting oxygen reduction at the cathode . A fourth catalyst layer is disposed adjacent the first electrolyte membrane and opposite the first catalyst layer . The fourth catalyst layer is an anode catalyst supporting fuel oxidation at the anode .

The anode the fourth catalyst layer the first electrolyte membrane the first catalyst layer the first gas diffusion layer and the cathodic surface of the A C junction electrode current collector form a first unit . In some embodiments the first unit processes fuel supplied to the fuel cell into hydrogen. In some embodiments the first unit controls fuel transport to the second unit described below without processing fuel supplied to the fuel cell . Controlling fuel transport from the first unit to the second unit avoids cathode depolarization which can decrease overall fuel cell voltage and lower fuel efficiency.

In some embodiments as depicted in an input voltage is supplied to the first unit to convert the fuel into hydrogen gas. In some embodiments the input voltage is supplied by an external power source with the positive electrode coupled to the anode and the negative electrode coupled to the A C junction electrode .

As fuel is supplied to the anode side of the fuel cell an anodic reaction occurs at the anode and a cathodic reaction occurs at the interface between the first electrolyte membrane and the first catalyst layer . In some embodiments the fuel is for example a methanol CHOH water mixture or ethanol or rubbing alcohol 2 propanol ethylene glycol or the like. In embodiments where the fuel is a methanol water mixture the mixture comprises about 4 vol. percent to about 40 vol. percent methanol and the balance water. In embodiments where the fuel is a methanol water mixture the fuel is oxidized at the anode to release protons and electrons according to the following formula CHOH HO CO 6H 6e. The protons migrate through the first electrolytic membrane to the first catalyst layer and recombine with the electrons to produce hydrogen gas according to the following formula 6H 6e 3H. The hydrogen generated is further transported to the second catalyst layer .

The cathode the third catalyst layer the second electrolyte membrane the second catalyst layer the second gas diffusion layer and the anodic surface of the A C junction electrode current collector form a second unit . In some embodiments the second unit generates an output voltage using the hydrogen created in the first unit . In some embodiments the input voltage supplied to the first unit from the power source is less than the output voltage generated by the second unit . In some embodiments the anodic reaction occurs at the interface between the second catalyst layer and the second electrolyte membrane and the cathodic reaction occurs at the cathode . The anodic reaction is 3H 6H 6e and the cathodic reaction is O 6H 6e 3HO.

In some embodiments the anode current collector comprises a material such as a titanium sheet or a graphite sheet. In some embodiments the anode current collector may have the same area as described above for the A C junction electrode current collector and may comprise a plurality of large pores and a plurality of small pores as described above for the A C junction electrode current collector .

The first anode gas diffusion layer is hydrophobic to allow permeation of gas while limiting the permeation of water. In some embodiments the first anode gas diffusion layer is made of material such as Teflon treated carbon cloth or carbon paper or a porous metal layer such as nickel foam or titanium foam with a Teflon content of about 20 to about 40 . The second anode gas diffusion layer is hydrophilic to allow permeation of water or fuel without limiting or substantially limiting the permeation of water. In some embodiments the second anode gas diffusion layer is made of a material such as carbon cloth or carbon paper with a lower Teflon content for example about 2 to about 10 .

As depicted in the cathode comprises a cathode current collector and a cathode gas diffusion layer . The cathode current collector comprises a cathode electrode lead . In some embodiments the cathode current collector may have the same area as described above for the A C junction electrode current collector and may comprise a plurality of large pores and a plurality of small pores as described above for the A C junction electrode current collector . The cathode gas diffusion layer is disposed between the cathode current collector and the second electrolyte membrane . The cathode gas diffusion layer is hydrophobic to allow permeation of gas while limiting or substantially limiting the permeation of water. In some embodiments the cathode gas diffusion layer may be made of the same material and may be of the same thickness as described above for the first and second gas diffusion layers .

In some embodiments as depicted in multiple fuel cells can be coupled together to advantageously provide increased power output. As depicted in the anode side of a first fuel cell as described above is coupled to a first side of a fuel chamber and the anode side of a second fuel cell is coupled to an opposing second side of the fuel chamber . A cathode end plate is coupled to the cathode side of the first fuel cell and to the cathode side of the second fuel cell .

As described above a power source is coupled to the first unit to provide an input voltage to convert the fuel into hydrogen which is used by the second unit to generate an output voltage. depicts an exemplary electrical connection of a fuel cell in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. As depicted in an input voltage is coupled to the anode of the first unit and is used to electrolyze water in the presence of fuel for generation of hydrogen. An output voltage is generated by the second unit using hydrogen created in the first unit . In some embodiments the output voltage referred to below as U is greater than the input voltage referred to below as U. The net voltage output U is

Here W is the fuel mass in Kg t is time in seconds. The current conversion efficiency or coulomb efficiency C from the fuel processing unit to the fuel cell unit is

Here Cand Care charge capacity and discharge capacity respectively. The capacity can be obtained by integration from the time period of tto t. If current conversion efficiency is 100 Iis equal to Iby constant voltage operation the net power output is 

An electrochemical evaluation was carried out of a fuel cell having a cathode catalyst formed using a mixture of 90 weight platinum black and 10 weight dry Nafion and coated onto a 0.2 mm carbon cloth and dried at 80 degrees Celsius and an anode catalyst formed using a mixture of 85 weight platinum ruthenium and 15 weight dry Nafion coated onto a 0.2 mm carbon cloth and dried at 80 degrees Celsius.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

