---

title: Detachable computer with variable performance computing environment
abstract: Computing devices are often designed in view of a particular usage scenario, but may be unsuitable for usage in other computing scenarios. For example, a notebook computer with a large display, an integrated keyboard, and a high-performance processor suitable for many computing tasks may be heavy, large, and power-inefficient; and a tablet lacking a keyboard and incorporating a low-powered processor may improve portability but may present inadequate performance for many tasks. Presented herein is a configuration of a computing device featuring a display unit with a resource-conserving processor that may be used independently (e.g., as a tablet), but that may be connected to a base unit featuring a resource-intensive processor. The operating system of the device may accordingly transition between a resource-intensive computing environment and a resource-conserving computing environment based on the connection with the base unit, thereby satisfying the dual roles of workstation and portable tablet device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501103&OS=09501103&RS=09501103
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC.
number: 09501103
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 822 594 filed on Jun. 24 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Many classes of devices have been devised within the field of computing such as workstations servers high performance laptops low performance netbook laptops tablets palmtop computers such as ultramobile personal computers UMPCs personal data assistants PDAs mobile computers such as smartphones thin clients and specialized appliances such as digital picture frames and kiosk computers. Each class of device is oriented to a typical usage scenario and often features a set of hardware and software components that are selected and well adapted for this scenario. Similarly a user may acquire one or more devices of similar or different classes to fill various niches of the user s computing uses such as a high performance workstation computer for an office environment a mid range performance but lightweight laptop for extended use at home and a smartphone for frequent use in mobile scenarios. Together these devices may comprise the user s computing environment. Moreover the devices may exhibit varying degrees of interoperability such as automated file synchronization or remote access through a terminal services configuration.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

While each device owned by a user may satisfy a particular niche within the user s computing environment it may be disadvantageous for a device to be designed only for one typical computing scenario. In particular the hardware and software configuration of a device may exhibit a tradeoff between performance and portability. Components that present more powerful computing capabilities such as larger displays high performance graphics rendering components powerful processors and expansive banks of rapidly accessible memory may increase the weight or size of the device or may draw more power thereby reducing portability and or battery life. Conversely components that promote portability such as smaller displays power efficient graphics rendering components mobile processors and solid state memory devices may be more expensive and or may present reduced computational power thereby reducing the performance and capabilities of the device. Therefore it may be difficult to design a device that is sufficiently versatile to provide adequate performance in many computing scenarios.

Presented herein is an architecture for a device that may satisfy a broad range of computing scenarios by featuring a convertible design. This architecture involves a computer comprising a base unit featuring a powerful base processor and one or more input devices e.g. a keyboard mouse and or touchpad and a detachable display unit featuring a lower powered but more power efficient display processor a display output component and a display battery which may be connected to the base unit. When the detachable display unit is connected to the base unit the operating system utilizes the more powerful components of the base unit and also presents a resource intensive mode of the computing environment e.g. a full complement of applications that may present robust functionality. However when the display unit is disconnected from the base unit the display unit continues to operate and to present the computing environment to the user but switches to the display processor to reduce the power consumption of the device. The operating system also switches to a resource conserving mode e.g. by adjusting the display from a fully transmissive display mode to a partially or wholly reflective display mode and or by switching applications from a resource intensive mode such as a full fledged media object editor to a resource conserving mode such as a reduced functionality media viewer. However the device endeavors to provide a consistent computing environment within the constraints of the components of the display unit.

In one such embodiment the base unit may each feature a base memory such as a hard drive or system RAM that is separate from the memory of the display unit such as additional system RAM or a solid state storage device and the operating system may be configured to store media objects and simple viewing applications in the display memory of the display unit while storing all other data objects in the base memory of the base unit. The device may therefore permit the user to detach the display unit and to view the stored media objects on the display unit in the manner of a tablet and to reconnect the display unit to the base unit in order to use the device in the manner of a laptop or workstation. Such configurations may provide seamless access to the media objects of the computing environment across satisfy several computing scenarios to which the device may be easily converted.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing devices may be designed and constructed in view of one or more computing scenarios wherein each device is likely to be used. As a first example in an office environment a user may wish to achieve high performance but may be unconcerned about mobility therefore a workstation or server computer may be designed with high performance computing resources e.g. fast general purpose and graphical processors arrays of storage devices and a broad set of peripheral components without regard to the power consumption or bulk of the components. As a second example a user may seek a portable computer that may be moved to various locations such as a high performance laptop that achieves a balance between powerful components and a marginally portable power efficient design. As a third example a netbook laptop may provide a full fledged computing environment with a complete set of applications but may be designed to produce a compact lightweight cheap device with power efficient components that extend battery life but at the expense of reduced computing power. As a fourth example a mobile device such as a smartphone may be specialized for handheld computing in a range of transient environments e.g. standing or sitting viewing indoors or outdoors and intermittently connected to various communications networks and a form factor that may fit within a user s pocket but may present a limited computing environment with limited memory and processing power. As a fifth example various appliance devices may be specialized for a specific usage scenario such as a digital picture frame that autonomously retrieves images from an image source and displays them in a standalone mode a portable media player that is configured to store and render media a kiosk computer that is configured to present a limited interactive computing experience such as a ticket purchasing device at a movie theater and a thin client device that lacks traditional computing resources but that remotely interfaces with one or more servers over a network to provide basic input and output capabilities.

Each of these devices therefore satisfies a particular usage scenario and is specially designed with hardware and software components that are well suited for that usage scenario. However it may be difficult to design a device that is sufficiently versatile to perform well in a range of usage scenarios. As a first example a user may prefer a laptop device with a large screen for extended use while traveling but may prefer a laptop device with a small screen for more intermittent use in a transient or crowded location such as on an airplane or at a caf with wireless internet access. As a second example a user may prefer a workstation to offer a robust computing environment with powerful computing power for running a broad set of sophisticated applications and games but for computing in a transient context the user may prefer a more basic user interface with a small set of simple applications that are quickly accessible.

Due to the limited set of usage scenarios for which each class of device is suitable users often acquire and utilize a set of devices in the context of a broad computing scenario. presents an exemplary scenario wherein a user interacts with a computing environment distributed across several devices including a high performance but non portable workstation for office use a laptop for portable use while away from the office and a smartphone for rapid and convenient use in transit. Additional devices may be acquired to fulfill newly devised or newly realized computing scenarios e.g. the user may acquire a portable media player for playing music or videos in a more convenient context than the other devices and a global positioning system GPS mapping device for navigating on foot or in a vehicle. While some of these devices might fulfill more than one computing scenario e.g. the smartphone may be capable of storing and rendering media files the user may prefer to use a more specialized or suitable device for such scenarios and or may prefer to use both devices concurrently in different roles. Together the devices of the computing environment may satisfy the computing scenarios in which the user engages.

However the proliferation of devices comprising the computing environment of the user may present significant disadvantages. As a first example the user often has to acquire configure and maintain each device individually thereby imposing additional administrative burdens with the addition of each new device. As a second example it may be difficult to present a seamless computing environment to the user across all of the user s devices. For example each device features a discrete set of capabilities and presents a computing environment that is isolated from the computing environments of other devices. In the exemplary scenario of if each device comprises a data store that stores a distinct set of data objects difficulties may arise if multiple devices concurrently store a representation of the same data object . For example if the data object may be updated to new versions different versions of the data object may exist on each device thereby causing consistency problems data conflicts and data loss. While some aspects of these devices may be harmonized e.g. by automatically synchronizing data stores the devices may not be configurable to present a consistent computing environment such as the same set of available and executing applications configured in the same manner and operating on a consistently presented set of data objects . The gaps in seamlessness may cause frustration and inefficiency e.g. if multiple versions of a data object exist on various devices or if an application existing on various devices is differently configured and exhibits a different behavior on each device.

Some efforts have been made to achieve greater versatility in the computing environments serviced by a particular device. As a first example a portable device such as a laptop may be attachable to an expansion base or dock which may charge the battery of the laptop and may provide a single connection to a set of peripherals e.g. a desktop LCD keyboard mouse and external storage devices that may otherwise have to be connected individually to the laptop. The higher performance but less portable components connected to the laptop through the expansion base or dock may substitute or supplement the comparatively lower performance components built into the laptop thereby improving the use of the laptop in a stationary environment such as an office environment. As a second example some convertible tablets and mobile computers feature both a display output component which may be quickly accessible in transit and a retractable keyboard which may be easier to use in more stationary environments. As a third example an operating system of a laptop may provide both a high performance mode wherein all components are utilized at full power e.g. the display may be powered at full brightness and a power conserving mode wherein components are operated at reduced power e.g. the display may be dimmer in order to conserve battery power and extend battery life. However these features may confer only modest improvements in the range of computing scenarios for which the capabilities of such devices may be suitable.

Presented herein are techniques for designing a computing device that fits a broader range of computing scenarios than other convertible device techniques. These techniques involve the concepts of a tablet device usually identified as a touchscreen display device lacking a hardware keyboard but including a processor storage and a battery which may be helpful for viewing media in a portable environment with less emphasis on key based data entry and a more traditional computing device such as a high performance notebook or a workstation featuring a powerful and robust set of components e.g. a high speed and multi core processor a graphics processor and plentiful storage capacity using a magnetic or solid state storage device. While these classes of devices are each particularly suitable in a limited set of computing scenarios a device may be devised that serves both sets of computing scenarios offering some or all advantages of a tablet and some or all advantages of a traditional computing device.

The present techniques therefore relate to the design of a computing device featuring a display unit comprising among other components a display output component a comparatively low powered display processor a display battery and a display memory and a base unit comprising among other components a comparatively high powered base processor a base power source and one or more input devices. Moreover the display unit comprises a display connector e.g. a downward facing port positioned on a bottom surface or lower edge of the display unit and the base unit comprises a base connector e.g. an upward facing port positioned on a top surface of the base unit such that the display unit may be connected to the base unit e.g. by positioning the display unit over the base unit and lowering the display unit until the display connector and the base unit connect. When the display unit is connected to the base unit the device may utilize the high powered base processor and all of the resources of the display unit and the base unit and the operating system of the device may present a computing environment to the user in a resource intensive mode particularly if the base unit is connected to an external power source. However the user may detach the display unit from the base unit e.g. by lifting the display unit upward until the display connector and the base connector disconnect and the display unit may continue to function and may seamlessly present the same computing environment to the user but in a resource conserving mode e.g. by reducing the brightness of the display output component reducing the operating speed of the processor and or transitioning running applications into a low performance mode that conserves computing resources. By presenting the same computing environment to the user but in a resource intensive state or a resource conserving state regardless of whether the device may utilize the more powerful components and external power source of the base unit or whether the device is detached.

The exemplary scenario of also illustrates a second configuration of this device wherein the display unit is detached from the base unit but continues to function and to provide a similar computing environment to the user e.g. a similar set of available applications configured in a similar manner a similar set of data objects such as a file system a similar set of presently executing applications in the same state and operating on the same data both before and after disconnection from the base unit . However in this second configuration the display unit draws power from the display battery and utilizes the lower powered but more energy efficient display processor and may not be capable of rendering the high performance mode of the computing environment in the same manner as the more powerful base processor without rapidly depleting the display battery . Accordingly the operating system may instead generate and present the computing environment on the display output component in a lower performance but resource conserving mode. As a first example instead of offering true multitasking and a windowed graphical environment the operating system may present a single application execution model wherein a single application is executed and displayed at a time which may be suspended or terminated before a first executing application may be instantiated or resumed. As a second example the operating system may present the computing environment with fewer graphical effects e.g. user interface animations in menus may be reduced or substituted with static icons. As a third example while the same set of applications may be available and may be configured to exhibit consistent behavior in both modes one or more applications may adjust is operation to promote the resource conserving mode of the operating system . For example while the operating system is operating in a high performance resource intensive mode a media rendering application may present a robust set of editing operations including many computationally intensive operations but while the operating system is operating in a low performance resource conserving mode the same application may present a reduced set of operations related to media viewing and simple media editing operations. In this manner the operating system may adapt the presentation of the computing environment to utilize the available components in the present configuration of the device and the device may exhibit broad adaptability to a wide range of computing scenarios than may be achieved through other configurations.

The techniques discussed herein may be devised with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation. The variations may be incorporated in various embodiments e.g. the exemplary embodiments illustrated in to confer individual and or synergistic advantages upon such embodiments.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the general scenario and configurations of the display unit and the base unit as a computer. illustrates a few exemplary configurations including a first configuration where the display unit fits into the base unit to form a conventional notebook computer but where the display unit is detachable and may operate independently according to the techniques presented herein. In a second configuration the base unit resembles a conventional desktop computer with a base input component comprising a hardware keyboard and the display unit fits into the base unit . In a third configuration the base unit is attached to a pedestal that resembles the base of an LCD monitor and the display unit fits into the pedestal to resemble a standard LCD monitor that may be used in a desktop computing scenario. Additional configurations may also be devised. In a fourth example of this first aspect the base unit may be attached to an expansion base or dock that is configured to receive the display unit and the expansion base or dock may be positioned near the workspace of the user or some distance away from the workspace. In contrast with a conventional arrangement of a notebook computer fitting into a dock or expansion base the expansion base or dock interfaces the display unit with the base unit in order to allow the display unit to utilize the base processor of the base unit . In a fifth example of this first aspect a user may own more than one base unit and or more than one display unit and the base units and display units may be interchangeable. For example a user may position a first base unit in a home environment and second base unit in an office environment and may carry the display unit therebetween as a data store of documents that may be utilized in either location. The base units may also be of an identical configuration or a different configuration. As another example a set of employees may each own a display unit and may utilize various workspaces in an office environment where each workspace is equipped with a base unit thereby providing a portable and personalized computing environment for each employee while permitting higher performance computing within the office. In a sixth example of this first aspect the base units may comprise standalone servers such that when the display unit is detached the base unit may continue to operate in an automated and unattended manner. In a seventh example of this first aspect the base units may have separate storage and a separate display device and when the display unit is detached the base unit may be operable as a workstation. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many configurations and scenarios wherein the techniques presented herein may be utilized.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the configuration of the display connector and the base connector . As a first example while the connectors are generally configured to couple the components of the display unit with those of the base unit many techniques may be utilized to implement this coupling. As a first example the display connector and the base connector may together form a high performance bridge between the display bus of the display unit and the base bus of the base unit thereby forming a traditional computing architecture where the components may communicate with high throughput. As a second example the display connector and the base connector may form other types of couplings such as a network connection that utilizes a network protocol to establish communication between the display unit and the base processor and or a communication link based on other established protocols such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection. Some of these communications protocols may also allow the display connector and or the base connector to signal connection and disconnection events to the display unit and or the base unit . Alternatively the operating system executing on the display unit may simply detect the availability of the components of the base unit e.g. in a Plug and Play architecture and may preferentially utilize the components of the base unit when available. As a third example the display connector and the base connector may couple through many types of physical configurations and may communicate through many types of physical properties including an optical connection and an electrical connection.

As a fourth example of this second aspect the configuration of the connection between the display unit and the base unit may present other features in addition to the interoperation of the components thereof. In a first such variation the base unit may serve as a stand for the display unit and may permit the display unit to be positioned in a convenient location. In a second such variation the base unit may serve as a physical guard for the display unit . For example the display input component of the display unit may be easily damaged by physical contact e.g. scratching of the display surface or pressure induced damage to an LCD matrix that results in stuck pixels dead spots or brightness inconsistencies. The display unit may therefore be configured to be inserted into the base unit which may feature a harder and more damage resistant exterior. This configuration may be designed for stationary use e.g. the base unit may comprise a heavy shield providing high resistance to damage and or for portable use e.g. the base unit may comprise a comparatively light shell that provides a modest improvement in the durability of the computer while not unmanageably increasing the weight of the combined computer to a non portable magnitude. Alternatively or additionally the base unit may include a locking mechanism that locks the display unit into the base unit and that restricts removal of the display unit unless the base unit is unlocked e.g. with a physical key a combination a software security credential such as a password and or identity validation via a biometric input component such as a fingerprint reader. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many configurations of the display connector and the base connector while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the configuration of the display output component of the display unit . As a first example the display output component may be implemented separately from the at least one display input component or may be implemented together with the display input component e.g. as a touch sensitive display. This type of hybrid input output component may be implemented using many types of touch sensitive technologies e.g. a pressure sensitive surface a capacitative surface capable of detecting contact with a human hand or a magnetically sensitive surface capable of detecting the proximity of a touch device such as a stylus. A touch sensitive implementation of the display output component may also accept many forms of input from a user including pointing input such as may simulate the manipulation of a pointer using a mouse or trackball a software keyboard presented on the display output component to detect user input representing keystrokes natural handwriting or a symbolic text entry system e.g. a shorthand character entry system. 

As a second example of this third aspect the display output component may utilize many forms of display technology such as a liquid crystal display LCD or light emitting diode LED display or a projection display. A particular configuration of an LCD based display output component that may be suitable in view of the broad range of usage scenarios wherein the display unit may be operated involves the implementation of a dual mode display such that while the display unit is connected to the base unit the display output component displays the computing environment in a transmissive display mode but while the display unit is disconnected from the base unit the display output component displays the computing environment in an at least partially reflective display mode. Alternatively or additionally the display output component may feature an adjustable viewing angle. For example when operated in a resource intensive mode or in a public viewing mode the display output component generates output that is viewable from many angles e.g. as a user walks past the display outpout component the quality of display may remain substantially consistent. However when operated in a resource conserving mode or in a private viewing mode the display output component restricts the output to a narrower viewing angle that is of high appearance to a user positioned directly in front of the display but that rapidly degrades in quality e.g. brightness contrast and clarity when viewed at an increasingly steep angle from the center of the display output component . These configurations may be advantageous for implementing the display output component in a manner that provides a high quality display when the device is operating in a resource intensive mode but that provides a lower quality but more resource conserving display when the device is operating in a resource conserving mode. Additionally this configuration may be advantageous for permitting an at least partially reflective display mode when the display unit while detached may be utilized outdoors where the reflective display mode may present an improved display over a fully transmissive display mode.

As a third example of this third aspect the display output component of the display unit may be utilized in various ways in relation to the base unit . In a first such variation the base unit may include a base display e.g. a desktop LCD display attached to the base unit . The operating system may be configured to while the display unit is connected to the base unit present the computing environment on the base display and may optionally power down the display output component in this configuration but while the display unit is disconnected from the base unit present the computing environment on the display output component . As a first alternative while the display unit is connected to the base unit the operating system may present the same view of the computing environment on both the display output component and the base display. As a second alternative while the display unit is connected to the base unit the operating system may present the computing environment across the base display and the display output component e.g. by stretching the virtual desktop space across both display components. In a second such variation the base unit may lack a separate display component and the display output component may be utilized to display the computing environment both when the display unit is attached to the base unit and when the display unit is detached from the base unit .

In a third such variation the display unit may be positioned in various orientations and may support several such orientations based on the preferences of the user . presents an exemplary scenario wherein the display unit features two display connectors a landscape display connector positioned at a longitudinal edge of the display unit and a portrait display connector positioned at a lateral edge of the display unit . When the display unit is connected to the base unit using the landscape display connector the operating system presents the computing environment in a landscape display mode e.g. where the width of the desktop space is greater than the height of the desktop space but when the display unit is connected to the base unit using the portrait display connector the operating system presents the computing environment in a portrait display mode e.g. where the height of the desktop space is greater than the width of the desktop space. This configuration may permit the user to orient the view of the computing environment according to the preference of the user . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many configurations of the display output component while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A fourth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the configuration of the display input component of the display unit . In some embodiments the display input component may comprise a distinct component such as a hardware keyboard integrated with the display unit a pointing device such as a joystick pointing stick trackball or touchpad a microphone configured to accept voice input from the user and a camera configured to detect gestures of the user . In other embodiments the display input component may be integrated e.g. with the display output component such as in the configuration of a touchpad device and may receive touch input in many ways e.g. a capacitative surface that is capable of detecting fingertip touches a magnetically sensitive surface that is capable of detecting touches from the magnetic tip of a specialized stylus or a pressure sensitive surface that is capable of detecting pressure from any object. The display unit might also include a set of display input components and may alternatively enable or disable the display input components when the display unit is connected to the base unit . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many configurations of the display input components of the display unit while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A fifth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the configuration and usage of the base power source of the base unit . As a first example the base unit may include a power supply that may be connected to a wall outlet which may be suitable if the base unit is situated in a non portable desktop configuration such as the second configuration and the third configuration presented in . However in other configurations the base unit may also be portable e.g. in the first configuration presented in and may also include a base battery that supplements the power provided by the display battery . For example the base unit may incorporate a larger and higher capacity that may be heavier and less portable than the display battery of the display unit but that may provide longer battery life while utilizing the more powerful but less power efficient base processor . Additionally the display unit may preferentially utilize the base batter before utilizing the display battery . For example while the display unit is connected to the base unit and while the base unit is connected to an external power source e.g. a power supply drawing power from a wall outlet the display unit may utilize the external power source and may also recharge the base battery and or the display battery but while the base unit is disconnected from an external power source the display unit and or the operating system may utilize the base battery while the base battery is not depleted and may utilize the display battery while the base battery is depleted. In this manner the computer may conserve the portability of the display unit even if the base battery is fully depleted. Additionally the operating system may be configured to while the display unit is connected to the base unit that is disconnected from an external power source and has a depleted base battery enter a resource conserving mode of the computing environment e.g. by powering down some or all of the components of the base unit and relying only on the components of the display unit in recognition of the diminishing power availability of the computer. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many configurations of the power usage of the display unit and the base unit with or without a base battery while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A sixth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to communication component s that may be built into the display unit and or the base unit . As a first example the display unit may include a display communication component which may comprise a wired network adapter a wireless network adapter configured to access a WiFi or cellular network or a short range communication component such as a Bluetooth or infrared adapter and the base unit may lack any such communication component. Conversely and as a second example the display unit may lack a communication component and may rely on a base communication component included in the base unit for communication when connected to the base unit . As a third example the display unit and the base unit may each may have a display communication component which may be of the same type as the base communication component or a different type. The display communication component may operate independently of the base communication component or may communicate with each other e.g. a Bluetooth transmitter and receiver built into the display unit and the base unit or vice versa to establish wireless communication therebetween. For example if the display unit includes a display wireless communication component and the base unit includes a base wireless communication component the operating system may be configured to while the display unit is disconnected from the base unit automatically establish a wireless connection between the display wireless communication component and the base wireless communication component. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many implementations and uses of the communication components incorporated in a display unit and or base unit while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A seventh aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the usage of the display memory of the display unit . As a first example of this seventh aspect many types of memory and storage technologies may be utilized to implement the display memory including volatile or nonvolatile memory a hard disk drive and a solid state or flash based storage device. It may be advantageous to implement the display memory using solid state technologies instead of hard disk drive technologies that involve a rotating disc due to the portability of the display unit .

As a second example of this seventh aspect the base unit may lack any memory or storage component and the display unit may rely wholly on the display memory to store the data of the computer. Alternatively the base unit may incorporate a separate base memory that may supplement the display memory . This supplementation may be implemented in many variations. In a first such variation data objects may be primarily stored on the base unit but particular data objects may also be stored on the display unit for remote access when disconnected from the base unit . Moreover when the display unit and the base unit reconnect the display unit may synchronize the data objects stored in the display memory with the base memory of the base unit in order to reconcile any changes that may have been made to such data objects during disconnection. presents an exemplary scenario featuring a display unit having a display memory and a base unit having a base memory wherein a particular data object is concurrently stored in both the display memory and the base memory . At a first time point the display unit is disconnected from the base unit and a change is made to the data object e.g. creating a new version 1.1 of the data object from its original 1.0 version. At a second time point when the display unit is reconnected to the base unit the operating system may synchronize the data objects in the display memory with the corresponding data objects in the base memory and therefore may propagate the new version of the data object from the display memory to the base memory . Alternatively or additionally if both the display unit and the base unit include wireless network adapters the synchronization may occur continuously such that changes may be propagated between the units through a wireless connection.

In a second such variation the data objects comprising the computing environment of the user may be differently allocated among the display memory of the display unit and the base memory of the base unit . For example the base memory may be represented as a separate volume and data objects stored in the base memory may only be available to the display unit when connected to the base unit . Alternatively if both the display unit and the base unit include wireless network adapters the synchronization may occur continuously the operating system may be configured to upon receiving a request to access a data object stored in the base memory and not stored in the display memory while the display unit is disconnected from the base unit retrieve the data object from the base unit through a wireless connection established between the units.

In a third such variation respective data objects may have a data object type and wherein data objects of particular data object types may be stored in the display memory of the display unit or in the base memory of the base unit depending on the data object type. presents an exemplary scenario featuring this variation utilizing an object hierarchy comprising a set of data objects . The operating system may define one or more portable data object types that the user may wish to access while the display unit is disconnected from the base unit e.g. media objects that the user may wish to view in a portable setting. The operating system may therefore be configured to store in the display memory all portable data objects of a portable data object type which may be rendered by the display unit for viewing in a portable setting while other data objects may be stored in the base memory of the base unit . Alternatively or additionally the user may be able to specify which data objects or which data object types are to be stored in the display memory and or the base memory . In this manner the data objects may be allocated between the display memory and the base memory in a manner that promotes the convenience of the display unit to the user in a detached usage scenario. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many techniques for storing data objects in the base memory and or the display memory while implementing the techniques presented herein.

An eighth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of configuring and storing applications in the display memory and or the base memory if present and executing such applications within the operating system . As a first example all applications may be stored in the display memory and may be executed on the display processor when the display unit is disconnected from the base unit or on the base processor when the display unit is connected to the base unit . As a second example of this eighth aspect applications may be identified as resource intensive applications those that utilize a large amount of computing resources such as three dimensional games and sophisticated media editing applications and resource conserving applications those that utilize a small amount of computing resources such as media viewing applications and simple media editing applications. The resource intensive applications may be stored in a base memory of the base unit and may only be accessible while the display unit is connected to the base unit while the resource conserving applications may be stored in the display memory of the display unit and may be available at any time.

As a third example of this eighth aspect one or more applications may comprise dual mode applications that may be executed in a resource intensive mode or a resource conserving mode and the operating system may automatically switch execution modes upon a connection of the display unit to the base unit or a disconnection therefrom by restarting the application in the corresponding mode. As a first alternative one or more dual mode applications may be toggled between these modes during execution without restarting the application e.g. by disabling more resource intensive features or presenting a less complex user interface. As a second alternative the display memory of the display unit may include a resource conserving version of an application and a base memory of the base unit may include a resource intensive version of the application and the version of the application matching the state of the computing environment may be executed upon request.

As a fourth example of this eighth aspect the operating system may be configured to manage the execution of applications based on the resource intensive or resource conserving mode of the computing environment based on the connection or disconnection status of the display unit and the base unit . For example if the computing environment includes resource intensive applications that may be executable within the resource intensive mode of the computing environment the operating system may halt any resource intensive applications that may be executing within the computing environment upon a disconnection of the display unit from the base unit . This halting may involve e.g. terminating the application or suspending the application in memory or to disk until the display unit is reconnected to the base unit . Alternatively the operating system may query the user upon a disconnection of the display unit from the base unit to determine whether and how to halt any resource intensive applications that may be executing.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

