---

title: Head-mounted display apparatus
abstract: A head-mounted display apparatus including a face plate having a first surface formed to face a user's face, and a support part configured to be coupled with at least a part of the face plate so as to allow the face plate to be fixed on the user's face. A cavity structure may be formed on second surface of the face plate which is opposite to the first surface so as to mount an external electronic device to the head mounted display apparatus. One or more position adjustment units are configured to adjust a position of the external electronic device and may be formed on at least one side surface of the face plate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09529194&OS=09529194&RS=09529194
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09529194
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141112
---
This application claims priority from and the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0142423 filed on Nov. 21 2013 and No. 10 2014 0111371 Aug. 26 2014 which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

In general a Head Mounted Display HMD apparatus may be mounted on a body portion for example a human head in order to provide a hands free display of an image. Such a HMD apparatus may be formed for example in a shape of goggles or spectacles.

For example HMD apparatus may include a display configured to output an image and positioned on the head where the display faces a user s eyes. Further the HMD may further include lenses configured to be capable of correcting the user s eyesight in which the lenses are positioned between the user s eyes and the display.

According to related art the HMD apparatus may provide an image according to the user s eyesight by moving the lenses positioned between the display and the user s pupils according to the user s eyesight or by replacing the lenses to be suitable for the user s eyesight. In the case of the HMD apparatus in which the position of the lenses are moved according to the user s eyesight a height of a lens barrel configured to support the lenses should be adjusted so as to adjust the distance of the lenses. In such a case lens barrels having different heights according to users sights are needed and a lens barrel for each user should be separately fabricated.

In the case of the HMD apparatus configured to adjust a lens distance when the lenses are moved toward the display the area of the display to be viewed by the user is relatively reduced such that the user s sense of immersion may be reduced. On the contrary when the lenses are moved toward the user s pupils the distance from the final surface of an optical system to the user s pupils for example eye relief get closer to each other such that the surface may come in contact with the user s eye lashes. As a result the wearing of the HMD apparatus may become uncomfortable. In addition in the case of the HMD apparatus configured to replace the lenses the lenses should be newly replaced according to the user s sight.

Various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may provide a head mounted display HMD apparatus which is capable of providing an image according to a user s sight by adjusting a display without adjusting a lens distance of the HMD or by replacing lenses.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a HMD apparatus may include a face plate having one a first surface formed to face i.e. to be oriented toward a user s face and a support part configured to be coupled with at least a part of the face plate so as to allow the face plate to be fixed on the user s face. A cavity structure may be formed on another a second surface of the face plate which is opposite to the one surface so as to mount an external electronic device and one or more position adjustment units configured to adjust a position of the external electronic device may be formed on at least one side surface of the face plate.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a HMD apparatus may include a face plate having a first surface formed to face a user s face and a support part configured to couple with at least a portion of the face plate to allow the face plate to be fixed on the user s face. The face plate may include on at least a first surface thereof a display configured to output an image and one or more position adjustment units configured to adjust a position of the external electronic device are formed on at least the first side surface of the face plate.

An HMD according to an exemplary embodiment may move a display so as to reflect for example a user s eyesight which may improve the user s wearability and screen commitment level. According to various exemplary embodiments the HMD apparatus is provided with a device configured to correct image blurring on the display which may be caused due to a difference in eyesight between users. Thus the HMD apparatus may be configured to be used generally without providing a specific head mount structure for each user. Further according to an exemplary embodiment the display may be moved horizontally with reference to for example a lens. Thus the user may less feel dizziness while adjusting a focus according to the user s eyesight.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. It should be noted that the same elements will be designated by the same reference numerals although they are shown in different drawings. Further a detailed description of known functions and configurations may be omitted when their inclusion may obscure appreciation by a person of ordinary skill in the art of the subject matter of the present disclosure with a detailed discussion of such known functions and configurations. is a perspective view illustrating a head mounted display HMD apparatus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

In the head mounted display apparatus may include a face plate and a support part e.g. goggle band . The face plate may be arranged over a part of a user s of face e.g. front side . The face plate may be supported on the front side of the user s face by various components. In an exemplary embodiment the support part may be coupled to a part of the face plate such that the face plate is supported on the user s face. For example the support part may cause the face plate to be closely contacted on the user s face around the eyes using a band formed of an elastic material that is in substantial contact with the back of the users head. In addition to or in place of the foregoing the support part may include eyeglass temples a helmet a strap or the like.

The face plate may have a shape or a configuration which allows the HMD apparatus to be easily arranged and worn on the user s face. For example the shape or the configuration of the face plate may have an external appearance that covers the user s eyes. The shape or the configuration of the face plate may include a nose recess so that the face plate can be supported by the user s nose.

With continued reference to the face plate may be made of a material which may be easily worn by the user. The face plate may support an electronic device and may be made of a light material e.g. a plastic which allows the user to feel comfortable while wearing the HMD.

In addition for example the face plate may be constituted with a material capable of protecting the HMD apparatus from external impact. The material capable of protecting the HMD apparatus may be for example at least one of a glass a plastic e.g. ABS or polycarbonate a ceramic a metal e.g. aluminum or a metal alloy e.g. steel stainless steel titanium alloy or magnesium alloy .

The face plate may also include a touch panel one or more display position adjustment units A and B and a lens adjustment unit .

The face plate may include the touch panel the display position adjustment units A and B and the lens adjustment unit on an external surface. The face plate may include a space or a configuration to which the electronic device may be coupled. The face plate may further include a connector which may be coupled to and communicated with the electronic device .

According to an embodiment one surface of the face plate may be configured to include the space or the configuration to which the electronic device may be coupled. For example the one surface of the face plate may include a cavity in the inside thereof so as to include the space or the configuration to which the electronic device may be coupled. For example the space or the configuration where the face plate and the electronic device may be coupled to each other may correspond to the external appearance of the electronic device . In an exemplary embodiment the face plate may have a deformable size such that the face plate may be coupled with the electronic device regardless of the size of the electronic device . The face plate may be made of an elastic material or configured to be deformable in size to be coupled with the electronic device regardless of the size of the electronic device . There are a number of ways that the electronic device can be removably coupled to the face plate such as latches an elastomeric material any type of fastener etc.

According to an embodiment the user may physically couple the electronic device to the faceplate by pushing the electronic device into the cavity of the face plate from the front side of the face plate . The electronic device may be inserted into the cavity of the face plate from the front side of the face plate . The face plate may include a cover which is capable of supporting the electronic device . When the electronic device and the face plate are coupled with each other the cover may be removed and the electronic device may be fitted to the cavity of the face plate . After the electronic device and the face plate are coupled with each other the cover may be coupled to the face plate again. In an exemplary embodiment the HMD apparatus may include a slot on at least one side surface of the face plate so that the electronic device can be inserted into the slots. The electronic device may be coupled with the HMD apparatus as being slid to the slots included on the lateral surfaces of the face plate . The electronic device may be coupled to the face plate such that the display of the electronic device coupled to the face plate is directed to the user.

One surface of the face plate may have a structure curved in a user s face shape so that the user may wear the face plate . The one surface of the face plate may include for example a nose recess. The face plate may expose at least one surface of lenses to the outside of the face plate so that the user may see a display device via the lenses. The one surface of the face plate may include a soft material e.g. sponge or rubber so as to protect the user s face.

According to an exemplary embodiment the face plate may include a controller configured to control the electronic device on a side surface thereof. The controller may include at least one of for example a touch panel a joystick a button a wheel key and a touch pad and or any combination thereof. The touch panel may display a Graphical User Interface GUI capable of controlling the function of the electronic device . For example the touch panel may display a graphical user interface related to sound setting such that a volume of an audio output from the electronic device may be adjusted. For example the touch panel may display a graphical user interface related to image reproduction such that an image displayed on the electronic device may be controlled.

The touch panel may receive a user s touch input e.g. an input of directly touching the touch panel or a hovering input . The HMD apparatus may transmit the received touch input to the electronic device . The electronic device may control a function corresponding to the touch input in response to the touch input received from the HMD apparatus . For example the electronic device may tune the volume or control the image reproduction in response to the received touch input.

According to an exemplary embodiment the one or more display position adjustment units A and B and the lens adjustment unit may be configured in a form of a wheel or a dial. The user may rotate the wheel or the dial implemented as the display position adjustment units A and B so as to adjust the position of the display and may rotate the wheel or the dial implemented as the lens adjustment unit so as to adjust a position between the lenses e.g. a distance between the lenses . Of course an artisan appreciates there are various ways to adjust position of the lenses for the HMD of the present disclosure besides rotating a wheel or dial. In addition the one or more display position adjustment units A and B may be disposed at the top of left and right sides of the face plate . For example the lens adjustment unit may be disposed at the top of the center of the face plate . The positions where the position adjustment units A and B and the lens adjustment unit are disposed may be variously adjusted in consideration of the characteristics of the HMD apparatus .

According to an embodiment the user may adjust the distance between the electronic device and the display by operating at least one of the display position adjustment units A and B to move the electronic device . When the user adjusts the position of the display of the electronic device through at least one of the display position adjustment units A and B the user may adjust the position of the electronic device so as to view an image suitable for the user s eyesight.

In an embodiment when the user simultaneously operates the display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the user. In an exemplary embodiment when the user simultaneously operates the display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the lenses.

In an embodiment when the user operates one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the display position adjustment unit A or B which is not moved by the user may also be operated therewith. When the user operates one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the user. In an exemplary embodiment when the user operates one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the lenses.

In an embodiment when the user simultaneously rotates the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the user. In an exemplary embodiment when the user simultaneously rotates the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the lenses.

In an exemplary embodiment when the user rotates one of the at least one of the display position adjustment units A and B the display position adjustment unit A or B which is not rotated by the user may also be rotated therewith. When the user rotates one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the user. In an exemplary embodiment when the user rotates one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the lenses to assist with a user s focus.

The user may adjust the distance between the lenses by operating the lens adjustment unit . For example when the distance between the user s eyes is short in which is one non limiting possible measurement criteria can be an interpupillary distance PD the user may operate the lens adjustment unit to reduce the distance between the lenses so that the lenses may be positioned on both eyes. For example when the distance between the user s eyes is relatively long compared to other users or a predetermined value the user may operate the lens adjustment unit to increase the distance between the lenses so that the lenses may be positioned on both eyes.

In the HMD apparatus may include a face plate and a goggle band . The face plate may be worn on a front side of the user s face. The face plate may be supported on the front side of the user s face by various components. In an exemplary embodiment the support part may be coupled to a part of the face plate so as to allow the face plate to be supported on the user s face. The support part is preferanly made of an elastic material to cause the face plate to be in close contact with the user s face around the eyes. In addition to or in place of the foregoing the support part may include eyeglass temples a helmet a strap or the like.

The face plate may have a shape or a configuration which allows the HMD apparatus to be easily worn by the user. For example the shape or the configuration of the face plate may have an external appearance that covers the user s eyes. The shape or the configuration of the face plate may include a nose recess so that the face plate can be supported by the user s nose.

The face plate may be made of a material which may be easily worn by the user. The face plate may support an electronic device and may be made of a light material e.g. a plastic which allows the user to feel wearability. In an exemplary embodiment the face plate may be constituted with a material capable of protecting the HMD apparatus from external impact. The material capable of protecting the HMD apparatus may be at least one of a glass a plastic e.g. ABS or polycarbonate a ceramic a metal e.g. aluminum or a metal alloy e.g. steel stainless steel titanium alloy or magnesium alloy just to name some non limiting possibilities.

The face plate may include a touch panel display position adjustment units A and B a lens adjustment unit and a display .

The face plate may include the touch panel the display position adjustment units A and B the lens adjustment unit and the display on an external surface.

Referring now to the face plate may include therein a communication module a display module a sensor module a camera module a memory and an interface that may control the functions of the electronic device when they are connected to the electronic device

One surface of the face plate may include the display . The display may be moved in position by the user s operation. The display may be disposed to face the user so that the user may view an image when wearing the HMD apparatus .

One surface of the face plate may have a structure curved in a user s face shape so that the user may wear the face plate . The one surface of the face plate may include a nose recess. The face plate may expose at least one surface of the lenses to the outside of the face plate so that the user may see a display device. The one surface of the face plate may include a soft material e.g. sponge or rubber so as to protect the user s face particularly as an elastic material is used for the goggle band support part .

The face plate may include a touch panel on a side surface thereof. The touch panel may display a Graphical User Interface GUI capable of controlling the function of the electronic device . For example the touch panel may display a graphical user interface related to sound setting such that a volume of an audio output from the electronic device may be adjusted. For example the touch panel may display a graphical user interface related to image reproduction such that an image displayed on the electronic device may be controlled. It is within the scope of the appended claims that more than one category of a graphical user interface can be displayed e.g. sound and image reproduction . In an exemplary embodiment the touch panel may receive a user s touch event. The HMD apparatus may control a function according to the received touch event. For example the HMD apparatus may he volume of the HMD apparatus or control the image reproduction in response to the received touch event.

The face plate may include one or more display position adjustment units A and B and a lens adjustment unit . The one or more display position adjustment units A and B and the lens adjustment unit may take a form of a wheel or a dial for easier manipulation by a user. The one or more display position adjustment units A and B and the lens adjustment unit may be configured in a form of a wheel or a dial and the user may rotate the wheel or the dial. The one or more display position adjustment units A and B may be disposed at the top of left and right sides of the face plate . Moreover the lens adjustment unit may be disposed at the top of the center of the face plate .

In an embodiment when the user simultaneously operates the display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the display toward or away from the user. In an exemplary embodiment when the user simultaneously operates the display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the display toward or away from the lenses.

In an embodiment when the user operates only one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the other display position adjustment unit A or B is not moved by the user. When the user operates only one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the display toward or away from the user. In an embodiment when the user operates only one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the display toward or away from the lenses.

In an embodiment when the user simultaneously rotates at least two of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the display toward or away from the user.

In an exemplary embodiment when the user simultaneously rotates the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the display toward or away from the lenses.

In an exemplary embodiment when the user rotates one of the at least one of the display position adjustment units A and B the other display position adjustment unit A or B which is not rotated by the user may can also be rotated therewith for example in a subsequent rotation. When the user rotates one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the user. In an exemplary embodiment when the user rotates one of the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the lenses.

The user may adjust the position of the display by operating the one or more display position adjustment units A and B to move the display . When the user adjusts the position of the display by operating the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the user may view an image output from the display at a position suitable for the user s eyesight.

The user may adjust the distance between the lenses by operating the lens adjustment unit . For example when the distance between the user s eyes is relatively short the user may operate the lens adjustment unit to reduce the distance between the lenses so that the lenses may be positioned on both eyes. For example when the distance between the user s eyes is relatively long the user may operate the lens adjustment unit to increase the distance between the lenses so that the lenses may be positioned on both eyes.

Referring now to the HMD apparatus may include a front case a connection case a movable case a cover a lens module and a gear module . The face plate may include a front case a connection case a movable case a cover a lens module and a gear module .

According to an exemplary embodiment one surface of the front case e.g. the surface directly facing the user s face may have a configuration curved in a the general shape of a face so that the user may comfortably wear the front case . The one surface of the front case may include a nose recess. The front case may include the lens module so that the user may view the display device by eyes. The front case may include a soft member e.g. sponge or rubber for protecting the user s face. The front case may be coupled with at least a part of the connection case . Upon being coupled with each other the front case and the connection case may together form a space in which at least one of the lens module and the gear module may be mounted. For example the front case may fixedly support the lens module and the gear module together with the connection case . According to an embodiment the front case may be formed in a structure capable of at least partially exposing the lens surfaces included in the lens module to the outside. For example the front case may include therein a space corresponding to the shapes of the lenses such that the lens module may be fixed. Further the front case may also include therein a space such that the gear module can be fixed therein.

According to an exemplary embodiment a lens adjustment unit may be further included in the space formed by coupling the front case and the connection case . For example the front case may include a rail capable of moving the lens module for the convenience of description the rail may be referred to as a lens moving rail when the lens adjustment unit is moved by operating the lens adjustment unit . At least one of the lenses included in the lens module may move along the lens moving rail back and forth. The moving distance of the at least one lens is determined depending on the length of the lens moving rail. According to an embodiment two lenses may simultaneously move toward or away from each other.

For example as shown in the lens module may include one or more lenses. Each of the lenses included in the lens module may be connected with at least one of the lens moving rails A B C and D at top and bottom ends thereof. The one or more lenses included in the lens module are connected with a link part therebetween. The link part includes one or more joints. The link part may wind or unwind joint parts according to the rotation of the lens adjustment unit to move the one or more lenses included in the lens module . When the one or more lenses included in the lens module are moved each of the lenses may move along at least one of the lens moving rail A B C and D which are positioned at top and bottom ends of the lenses respectively.

In one arrangement the connection case may be positioned between the front case and the movable case . For example at least one part of the connection case may be connected with the front case and at least another part of the connection case may be connected with the movable case . The connection case may support at least one of the lens module and the gear module together with the front case . For example the connection case may include a lens shaped space therein so that the lens module can be fixed. The connection case may include a space therein so that the gear module can be fixed. When the one or more display position adjustment units A and B rotate the connection case moves together with the movable case in order for the electronic device or the display may be positioned closer to the lens module or further away from the lens module . The moving distance of the electronic device or the display may be determined by a length of one or more rail shafts A B C and D of the gear module . An artisan understands and appreciates that the present claims are not limited the arrangement as provided for illustrative purposes and the order of some items may be different than the illustrative examples discussed herein.

According to an exemplary embodiment the connection case may take a configuration or shape for example of a lens barrel of a telescope or a microscope. When the connection case has the configuration or shape of a lens barrel it is possible to make light output from the electronic device or the display have a constant route e.g. directed to the user or the lens module . When the connection case has the configuration or shape of the lens barrel external light may be blocked and only the light output from the electronic device or the display may be transmitted to the user.

According to an exemplary embodiment the movable case may be configured to have a space or a structure to which an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device may be coupled. For example the shape of the space where the movable case and the external electronic device are coupled to each other may correspond to the external shape of the external electronic device. In an exemplary embodiment the size of the movable case may be deformed such that the movable case may be coupled with the electronic device regardless of the size of the electronic device . For example the movable case may be made using an elastic material or structurally deformed to be coupled with the external electronic device regardless of the size of the external electronic device.

According to an exemplary embodiment the external electronic device may be inserted into a cavity of the movable case in front of the movable case .

In an exemplary embodiment the HMD apparatus may include slots on side surfaces of the movable case into which the electronic device may be inserted. The electronic device may be coupled with the HMD apparatus while being slid to the slots included in the movable cases . According to an embodiment the movable case may include a touch panel .

According to an exemplary embodiment the movable case may further include a dock or a connector to be connected with the electronic device to be capable of being communicated with the electronic device . The dock or the connector included in the movable case may include for example a communication interface e.g. USB HDMI or D SUB .

The cover may fixedly support the electronic device together with the movable case . When the electronic device is coupled with the movable case the cover may be removed and the electronic device may be fitted to the cavity of the movable case . After the electronic device and the movable case are coupled with each other the cover may be re coupled to the movable case . The display of the electronic device coupled to the movable case such that the display is directed toward the user. The cover may have a structure or a shape that covers at least a part of the front surface of the movable case . In addition to or in place of the foregoing the cover may include a skeleton structure or shape. The cover may be made of a transparent material such that the outside may be sensed through a camera included in the electronic device while fixedly supporting the electronic device .

Referring now to according to an embodiment the gear module may be fixedly supported by the connection case . The connection case may fix the gear module together with the movable case .

The gear module may include one or more display position adjustment units A and B a horizontal bevel gear one or more intermediate bevel gears A and B one or more moving gears A and B and one or more rail shafts A B C and D. A bevel gear is a conical gear which is used when transmitting motion between two intersecting shafts.

For example each of the display position adjustment units A and B includes a gear therein to transmit a rotation force to a horizontal bevel gear and one or more intermediate bevel gears A and B when the user rotates at least one of the display position adjustment units A and B. The one or more display position adjustment units A and B may be disposed at the top of the left and right sides of the connection case .

When at least one of the display position adjustment units A and B is rotated or the one or more display position adjustment units A and B are simultaneously rotated the horizontal bevel gear may transmit a force to both the display position adjustment units A and B. The horizontal bevel gear may be disposed between the display position adjustment units A and B. For example the horizontal bevel gear may evenly transmit the force generated when at least one of the display position adjustment units A and B is rotated. The horizontal bevel gear may be disposed at the upper end of the face plate .

With reference to the intermediate bevel gears A and B may transmit the force transmitted from the display position adjustment units A and B to the moving gears A and B.

For example each of the moving gears A and B may include a vertical bevel gear and a screw unit. Each of the moving gears A and B may receive the force transmitted from the one or more intermediate bevel gears A and B through a vertical bevel gear.

Referring now to for example the moving gear A may include a vertical bevel gear A and a screw unit B. The moving gear A may receive the force transmitted from the intermediate bevel gear A through the vertical bevel gear A. The moving gear A may transmit the force received through the vertical bevel gear to the screw unit B.

The screw unit B may include a female screw and a male screw. The male screw may be connected to the vertical bevel gear and moved according to the force transmitted from the intermediate bevel gear A. The male screw may be connected to the vertical bevel gear and perform a unscrewing screwing operation with the female screw by the force transmitted from the intermediate bevel gear A to move the electronic device or the display .

For example the unscrewing direction of the male screw is directed toward the lenses or the user and the screwing direction may be directed away from the lenses or the user. In another exemplary embodiment the screwing direction of the male screw may be directed toward the lenses or the user and the unscrewing direction is directed away from the lenses or the user.

The one or more rail shafts A B C and D may provide rotation on which the display position adjustment units A and B may rotate. The one or more rail shafts A B C and D may guide a movable range where the electronic device or the display may be moved. The electronic device or the display may move along the one or more rail shafts A B C and D.

According to an embodiment the one or more rail shafts A B C and D may be disposed at a top and a bottom a left and right corners of the connection case . Some rail shafts e.g. rail shafts A and B of the rail shafts A B C and D may become moving shafts on which the one or more display position adjustment units A and B may rotate. For example the one or more rail shafts A B C and D may be stoppers of a nail head shape so as to guide the movable range where the electronic device or the display may move.

Referring now to the gear module may include the one or more display position adjustment units A and B the horizontal bevel gear and one or more link devices A and B. For example the link devices may be configured to convert a rotating movement into a rectilinear movement.

The one or more display position adjustment units A and B are configured in a form or a wheel or a dial to facilitate user manipulation. When the user rotates the one or more display position adjustment unit A and B the rotating force may be transmitted to the horizontal bevel gear and the one or more link devices A and B.

The one or more link devices A and B may convert a rotation movement into a rectilinear movement according to the force transmitted from the one or more display position adjustment units A and B to move the electronic device or the display .

The gear module may include a display position adjustment unit B a horizontal bevel gear a first vertical first vertical dual gear a second vertical dual gear a horizontal dual gear and a spur gear .

The display position adjustment unit B may transmit a force received from the user to the horizontal bevel gear and the first vertical dual gear . The horizontal bevel gear may transmit a force transmitted from the display position adjustment unit B to another display position adjustment unit A. The first vertical dual gear may transmit the force transmitted from the display position adjustment unit B to the second vertical dual gear . According to an exemplary embodiment each of the first vertical dual gear the second vertical dual gear and the horizontal dual gear may be configured such that two gears are rotated by one central shaft. For example the second vertical dual gear may transmit the force transmitted from the first vertical dual gear to the horizontal dual gear . The horizontal dual gear may transmit the force transmitted from the second vertical dual gear to the spur gear . The spur gear may be disposed in the connection case to cause movement of the connection case .

The HMD apparatus may include a communication module a user input module a display module a sensor module a camera module a memory an interface and a processor .

The communication module may include an RF module or a wireless communication module either of which include a transmitter receiver and or a transceiver. The RF module may perform data transmission reception and RF signal transmission reception. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA .

For example the wireless communication module may include WiFi Bluetooth GPS or near field communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using a wireless frequency. In addition to or in place of the foregoing the communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card or a modem to connect the HMD apparatus to a network e.g. Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The user input module may also include a touch panel a pen sensor a key or ultrasonic input device just to name a few non limiting possibilities. For example the touch panel may recognize a touch input by at least one of a capacitive touch type a resistive touch type an infrared type and an ultrasonic type. In addition the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive touch type a physical contact or proximity may be recognized. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In such a case the touch panel may provide a response of tactual sense to the user. For example a pen sensor may be implemented in a same or similar method of receiving a user s touch input or using a separate recognition sheet. For example the key may include a physical button an optical key a keypad or a touch key. An ultrasonic input device is a device configured to sense a micro sound wave through an input instrument that generates an ultrasonic wave signal to confirm data and may perform wireless recognition. According to an exemplary embodiment the HMD apparatus may receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server connected thereto via the communication module .

The display module e.g. the electronic device including the display of or the display of may include for example a panel a hologram or a projector. For example the panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . Moreover the panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured as a single module with the touch panel . The hologram may show a stereo image using interference of light in the air. The projector may project light to a screen to display an image. For example the screen may be positioned inside or outside the HMD apparatus . According to an exemplary embodiment the display module may further include a control circuit configured to control the panel the hologram or the projector.

The sensor module may measure a physical amount or sense the operating state of the HMD apparatus and converts the measured or sensed information into an electric signal. For example the sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor a gyro sensor an air pressure sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a grip sensor a proximity sensor a color sensor e.g. an RGB red green blue sensor a bio sensor a temperature moisture sensor an illuminance sensor and an ultraviolet UV sensor just to name some non limiting examples. In addition to or in place of the foregoing the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor or the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit configured to control one or more sensors included therein.

The camera module may photograph a still image and or a moving image a video image . According to an exemplary embodiment the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an image signal processor ISP or a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The memory which may comprise a non transitory memory may include an embedded memory or an external memory. For example the embedded memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a DRAM Dynamic RAM an SRAM Static RAM or an SDRAM Synchronous Dynamic RAM and a non volatile memory e.g. an OTPROM One Time Programmable ROM a PROM Programmable ROM an EPROM Erasable and Programmable ROM an EEPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the embedded memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a CF compact flash an SD secure digital a Micro SD micro secure digital a Mini SD mini secure digital an xD extreme digital or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected with the HMD apparatus through various interfaces. According to an exemplary embodiment the HMD apparatus may further include a storage device storage medium such as a hard drive.

The memory may store a command or data generated from the processor the communication module the user input module and the display module . The memory may include programming modules including but not limited to a kernel a middleware an API application programming interface or applications.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the processor or the memory used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the programming modules other than the kernel e.g. the middleware the API or the applications .

The kernel may provide an interface that may access and control or manage respective components of the HMD apparatus from the middleware the API or from the applications.

The middleware may perform an intermediation role such that the API or the applications may communicate with the kernel so as to exchange data. In connection with task requests received from the applications the middleware is configured to assign a priority of using the system resources e.g. the processor or the memory of the HMD apparatus to one or more applications in the applications to perform a control for the task requests e.g. scheduling or load balancing .

The API is an interface configured to control the functions provided by the applications in the kernel or the middlewear. For example the API may include at least one interface or a function e.g. a command for file control window control image processing or character control.

The applications associated with the API may include for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application configured to measure an exercise amount or a blood sugar level or an environmental information application e.g. an application configured to provide atmospheric pressure moisture or temperature information . In addition to or in place of the foregoing the application may include an application related to information exchange between the HMD apparatus and the electronic device . For example the application related to information exchange may include a notification relay application configured to relay specific information to the electronic device or a device management application configured to manage the electronic device .

For example the notification relay application may include a function of relaying notification information generated in the other applications of the HMD apparatus e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environmental information application to the electronic device . In addition to or in place of the foregoing the alarm relay application may receive notification information from the electronic device and provide the notification information to the user. For example a device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update at least some of functions of the electronic device which communicates with the HMD apparatus e.g. turn on turn off of an external electronic device itself or some components thereof or control of brightness resolution of the display or an application operated in the external electronic device or a service provided from the external electronic device e.g. a call service or a message service .

The application may include an application designated according to a property of the electronic device e.g. a type of the electronic device . For example when the electronic device is an MP3 player the applications may include an application related to music reproduction. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated to the HMD apparatus or an application received from the electronic device .

The interface may include an HDMI high definition multimedia interface a USB universal serial bus an optical communication terminal or a D sub D subminiature just to name a few non limiting possibilities. In addition to or in place of the foregoing the interface may include an MHL mobile high definition link an SD secure digital MMC multi media card or an IrDA infrared data association .

The processor which in one aspect comprises hardware circuitry that may be configured with software and may be in the form of an integrated circuit may include at least one AP application processor or at least one CP communication processor .

The processor in another aspect may drive an operating system or an application program so as to control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the processor and may perform processing and arithmetic operation of various data including multimedia media. For example the processor may be implemented with a SoC System on Chip . According to an exemplary embodiment the processor may further include a GPU graphic processing unit not illustrated .

The processor may perform a function of managing data link in a communication between the HMD apparatus and the electronic device connected thereto by a network and by converting a communication protocol. According to an exemplary embodiment the processor may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions. For example the processor may perform discrimination and authentication of an electronic device within a communication network using a subscriber identification module e.g. an SIM card . In addition the processor which executes operations may provide a service such as voice communication video communication text message or packet data to the user.

The processor may control data transmission reception of the communication module . According to an exemplary embodiment the processor may load a command or data received from least one of a non volatile memory or other components individually connected thereto and process the command or data. In addition the processor may store data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in the non volatile memory.

The HMD apparatus may include a processing device configured to support a mobile TV e.g. a GPU . For example the processing device configured to support a mobile TV may process multimedia data according to a standard such as DMB digital multimedia broadcasting DVB digital video broadcasting or a media flow.

The HMD apparatus may be connected with the electronic device through the communication module or the interface . The HMD apparatus may display a graphical user interface GUI on the touch panel . The display of the electronic device and the display are main display devices of the HMD apparatus . The display of the electronic device and the display may display a content e.g. a video image a photograph Internet or a music album and an application on the HMD apparatus . The display of the electronic device and the display may execute the content and the graphical user interface of the application on the HMD apparatus in response to a user input signal. The HMD apparatus may receive the user input signal through the touch panel and perform an operation according to the received input signal under the control of the processor .

In addition the electronic device may be a device including a communication function and a display function. For example the electronic device may include at least one ore more of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video telephone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical appliance a camera a game machine and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory an electronic tattoo and a smart watch just to name some non limiting possibilities .

The communication protocol may include a device discovery protocol a capability exchange protocol a network protocol and an application protocol .

According to an embodiment the communication protocol may be a protocol that allows the HMD apparatus and the electronic device to sense an external electronic device which may be communicated therewith or to be connected with the sensed external electronic device. For example the HMD apparatus may sense an electronic device which may be communicated therewith through a communication method to be used by the HMD apparatus e.g. WiFi BT or USB by using the device discovery protocol . The HMD apparatus may acquire and store identification information for the electronic device that is sensed using the device discovery protocol for the purpose of communication connection with the electronic device . For example the HMD apparatus may set up the communication connection with the electronic device based on the identification information.

In an exemplary embodiment the device discovery protocol may be a protocol for mutual authentication between a plurality of electronic devices. For example the HMD apparatus may execute authentication between the HMD apparatus and the electronic device based on communication information e.g. a MAC media access control address a UUID universally unique identifier a SSID subsystem identification or an IP information provider address .

According to an embodiment the capability exchange protocol may be a protocol for exchanging information related to service functions to be capable of supporting at least one of the HMD apparatus and the electronic device . For example electronic devices may exchange information related to the services currently provided by each of them through the capability exchange protocol . The exchangeable information may include identification information that indicates a specific service among a plurality of services which may be supported by the HMD apparatus or the electronic devices . For example the HMD apparatus may include identification information of a specific service provided by the electronic devices from the HMD apparatus through the capability exchange protocol . In such a case the HMD apparatus may determine whether or not it is possible to support the specific service based on the received identification information.

According to an exemplary embodiment the network protocol may be a protocol configured to control a flow of transmitted received data in order for the electronic devices connected thereto to be capable of communicating and may provide services in an interlocking manner therebetween. For example the HMD apparatus may perform for example an error control or a data quality control using the network protocol . In addition to or in place of the foregoing the network protocol may determine a transmission format of data transmitted between the HMD apparatus and the electronic devices . In addition at least one of the HMD apparatus and the electronic devices may perform at least session management e.g. session connection or session termination for data exchange therebetween using the network protocol .

According to another embodiment the application protocol may be a protocol configured to provide a procedure or information for exchanging data related to the services supplied to the external electronic devices. For example the HMD apparatus may provide a service to the electronic devices through the application protocol .

According to yet another embodiment the communication protocol may include a standard communication protocol a communication protocol designated by an individual or a group e.g. a communication protocol autonomously designated by a communication equipment manufacturing company or a network supply company or a combination thereof.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware with software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component control unit controller or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component element or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented.

At operation an electronic device e.g. the HMD apparatus executes an external communication connection when an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device is coupled thereto. At operation the HMD apparatus may display a graphical user interface GUI capable of controlling a function of the electronic device on a touch panel . At operation the HMD apparatus may receive a user input signal. In addition at operation the HMD apparatus may receive a touch input according to the user input signal. At operation the HMD apparatus may transmit the received user input signal to the electronic device . In an exemplary embodiment at operation the HMD apparatus may transmit the signal capable of controlling the electronic device according to the received user input signal to the electronic device .

The HMD apparatus may further include a focus adjustment sensor unit not illustrated and a driving unit not illustrated . The focus adjustment sensor unit not illustrated may be a CCD Charge Coupled Device image sensor or a CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor image sensor.

A focus adjustment sensor unit not illustrated may be placed on the front case so as to adjust the focus of the screen displayed on the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display at the user s eyes. The focus adjustment sensor unit not illustrated may sense a focus by sensing light output from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display at the user s eye.

The HMD apparatus may move the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display according to the sensed focus. The HMD apparatus may move the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display according to the sensed focus using a driving unit not illustrated including a motor.

At operation the HMD apparatus senses the user input signal through a user input module and a focus adjustment mode may be selected according to the user input signal.

At operation the HMD apparatus may display the focus adjustment mode. The focus adjustment mode may be displayed to the user using the user interface through the external electronic device e.g. electronic device or the display . For example at operation when the focus adjustment mode is selected according to the user input signal the HMD apparatus may display the focus adjustment mode. At operation in the case of displaying the focus adjustment mode the focus adjustment mode may be displayed not only when the HMD apparatus may control the position adjustment units A and by the driving unit not illustrate to move the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display but also when the position adjustment unit A and B is controlled by the user so as to move the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display . For this purpose a sensor not illustrated configured to sense the movement of the position adjustment units A B may be provided on the position adjustment units A and B and the focus adjustment state may be sensed using the sensor and displayed on the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display .

At operation when the focus adjustment mode is selected according to the user input signal the HMD apparatus may sense the focus of the user s eyesight through the focus adjustment sensor unit not illustrated .

At operation the HMD apparatus may move the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the display according to the display focus of the user s eyesight sensed through the focus adjustment sensor unit not illustrated . The HMD apparatus may control the one or more position adjustment units A and B through the driving unit not illustrated to move the external electronic device e.g. electronic device or the display .

In Screen A of when the position adjustment units A and B are moved as the focus adjust mode is selected and the position adjustment units A and B are moved by the user s operation the HMD apparatus senses the movement of the position adjustment units A and B through the sensor. When the movement of the position adjustment units A and B is sensed an image for focus adjustment is displayed on the HMD apparatus . When the movement of the position adjustment units A and B is sensed the focus adjustment state may be displayed. When the image output from the HMD apparatus is out of the user s focus as in Screen A the image may be output in a defocused or blurred state. When the image output from the HMD apparatus is in the user s focus as in Screen B the image may become clear. Through this the user may adjust the eyesight focus.

As shown in the head mounted display apparatus may include a face plate a cover a display position adjustment unit a touch pad or a physical key . The face plate may be worn on at least a portion of a user s face. The face plate may be supported on a front of the user s face by various constituent elements. For example the HMD apparatus may further include a support part not illustrated coupled to a part of the face plate to allow the face plate to be supported on the user s face. The support part may allow the face plate to be in close contact around the user s eyes on the user s face using a band formed of an elastic material. Additionally or alternatively the support part may be configured as for example eyeglass temples a helmet or a strap. The face plate is formed by a connection case and a front case so that a device required for the HMD apparatus such as a sensor or a gear or a motor required for moving the electronic device may be mounted inside the face plate .

The face plate may have a shape or structure that allows the HMD apparatus to be easily worn on the user s face. For example the shape or structure of the face plate may have an external shape that covers the user s eyes. The shape or structure of the face plate may include a nose recess to be supported by the user s nose.

The face plate may be made of a material which may be easily worn by the user. The face plate may support the electronic device and be made of a light material e.g. plastic which allows the user to feel a convenient wearing sensation. In an exemplary embodiment the face plate may be made of a material for protecting the HMD apparatus from external impact. For example the material for protecting the HMD apparatus may be at least one of for example glass plastic e.g. ABS or polycarbonate a ceramic a metal e.g. aluminum and a metal alloy e.g. steel stainless steel or a titanium or magnesium alloy .

The face plate may include a cover a display position adjustment unit touch pad and a physical key at outside thereof. The face plate may include a space or a structure to which the electronic device may be coupled. The face plate may further include a connector to be coupled with the electronic device and to perform communication.

The face plate may include a cover capable of supporting the electronic device . The user may push the electronic device from the front surface of the face plate into a cavity of the face plate . The electronic device may be fitted into the cavity of the face plate from the front surface of the face plate . When the electronic device and the face plate are coupled to each other the cover may be removed and the electronic device may be fitted into the cavity of the face plate . When the electronic device and the face plate are coupled to each other the cover may be coupled to the face plate again.

The face plate may include a display position adjustment unit . The display position adjustment unit may be positioned at the center of the upper end of the face plate . For example when the HMD apparatus is viewed in front of it the display position adjustment unit may has a shape in which a dial or a wheel is partially exposed upward and positioned at the center of the upper end of the face plate .

The display position adjustment unit may be configured in a form of a wheel or a dial. The user may turn the display position adjustment unit implemented as the wheel or the dial so as to adjust the position of the display. The position where the display position adjustment unit is disposed may be variously adjusted in consideration of the characteristic of the HMD apparatus .

In an exemplary embodiment the HMD apparatus may be configured such that a distance between the electronic device and the user s eyes by fixing a lens and moving the electronic device supported on the HMD apparatus through the display position adjustment unit . The user may adjust the position of the electronic device to enjoy an image suitable for the user s eyesight by adjusting the display position of the electronic device through the display position adjustment unit .

In an exemplary embodiment when the user operates the display position adjustment unit the HMD apparatus may move the electronic device toward or away from the user s eyes.

According to an exemplary embodiment the face plate may include a control device on a side surface to control the electronic device . The control device may include at least one of for example a touch pad a physical key a joystick a button a wheel key and a touch panel. The touch pad may display a Graphical User Interface GUI that may control the function of the electronic device . For example the touch pad may display a GUI related to setting a sound so that the volume of the audio output from the electronic device can be adjusted. For example the touch pad may display a GUI related to image reproduction so that an image displayed in the electronic device can be controlled.

The touch pad may receive a user s touch input e.g. an input executed by directly touching the touch pad or a hovering input . The HMD apparatus may transmit the received touch input to the electronic device . In response to the touch input received from the HMD apparatus the electronic device may control a function corresponding to the touch input. In addition the electronic device may adjust the volume or control image reproduction in response to an input of the physical key .

The HMD apparatus may include a gear module . The gear module is a device capable of moving the electronic device by transferring a force received from the display position adjustment unit through gears.

According to an exemplary embodiment the gear module may be included in the connection case to be supported. The connection case may include the gear module together with the front case .

The gear module may include a display position adjustment unit one or more horizontal bevel gears A and B one or more intermediate bevel gears A and B and one or more moving gears A and B. The bevel gear refers to a conical gear used when transferring a movement between two axes which intersect each other.

For example the display position adjustment unit may include therein one or more gears which may transfer a rotating force generated when the user rotates the display position adjustment unit to one or more horizontal bevel gears A and B and one or more intermediate bevel gears A and B. The display position adjustment unit may be disposed at the center of the upper end of the connection case or the front case .

When the display position adjustment unit is rotated a force may be transferred to the horizontal bevel gears A and B positioned to the left and right with reference to the display position adjustment unit . For example the one or more horizontal bevel gears A and B may evenly transfer the force generated when rotating the display position adjustment unit to both the left and right sides. The one or more horizontal bevel gears A and B may be positioned on the upper end of the face plate . With reference to the intermediate bevel gears A and B may transfer a force received from the one or more horizontal bevel gears A and B to moving gears A and B. The operations of the moving gears A and B may be the same as those in .

For example each of the moving gears A and B may include a vertical bevel gear and a screw unit. Each of the moving gears A and B may transfer a force received from the one or more intermediate bevel gears A and B through the horizontal bevel gears A and B.

The apparatuses and methods of the disclosure can be implemented in hardware and in part as firmware or as software or computer code in conjunction with hardware that is stored on a non transitory machine readable medium such as a CD ROM a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and stored on a local non transitory recording medium for execution by hardware such as a processor so that the methods described herein are loaded into hardware such as a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller control unit or other programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a processor microprocessor controller or control unit or microcontroller constitute hardware in the claimed disclosure that contain circuitry that is configured for operation with software or firmware and may be construed as implicitly including Digital Signal Processor DSP hardware. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims constitute statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101.

The definition of the terms unit or module as referred to herein is to be understood as constituting hardware circuitry such as a processor or microprocessor configured for a certain desired functionality or a communication module containing hardware such as transmitter receiver or transceiver or a non transitory medium comprising machine executable code that is loaded into and executed by hardware for operation in accordance with statutory subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101 and does not constitute software per se or pure software.

The embodiments disclosed in the present specifications and drawings were provided merely to readily describe and to help a thorough understanding of the present invention but not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Therefore it should be construed that all modifications or modified forms drawn by the technical idea of the present invention in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein are included in the scope of the appended claims.

