---

title: Method and system for launching an application
abstract: A computer-program product embodied in a non-transitory computer read-able medium that is programmed for communicating accident data to a vehicle computing system (VCS) and at least one server. The computer-program product may comprise instructions for receiving a broadcast notification via short-range wireless communication from the VCS. The computer-program product may comprise further instructions for searching for a mobile application based on the broadcast notification. The computer-program product may comprise further instructions for enabling the mobile application matches with the broadcast notification. The computer-program product may comprise further instructions for transmitting a communication link to the VCS based on the broadcast notification. The computer-program product may comprise further instructions for receiving an accident notification from the VCS and communicating the accident notification to the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357368&OS=09357368&RS=09357368
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 09357368
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140523
---
The present disclosure generally relates to vehicle infotainment systems and more particularly to systems and methods using applications on mobile devices in infotainment systems.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 324 833 generally discloses an audio system that may include an electronic device having a display a memory an audio file player and a housing component at least partially defining a cavity in which the memory and the audio file player are secured. The electronic device may be a portable MP3 player. The system may also include a processor or playlist engine that can maintain a first playlist and a second playlist. In practice the first playlist may include a selection of audio content having a corresponding audio file saved in the memory of the electronic device. The system may also include an automobile having an automobile sound system that has a speaker and an in dash sound system component which may be removably coupled to the electronic device via a cable. The in dash sound system component may have a selector which may be for example a button that allows a user to select the first playlist for outputting via the speaker. The cable interconnecting the electronic device and the in dash sound system component may be capable of providing power to the electronic device in addition to communicatively coupling the electronic device to the automobile sound system.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 346 310 generally discloses a vehicle based computing apparatus including a computer processor in communication with persistent and non persistent memory. The apparatus also includes a local wireless transceiver in communication with the computer processor and configured to communicate wirelessly with a wireless device located at the vehicle. The processor is operable to receive through the wireless transceiver a connection request sent from a nomadic wireless device the connection request including at least a name of an application seeking to communicate with the processor. The processor is further operable to receive at least one secondary communication from the nomadic device once the connection request has been processed. The secondary communication is at least one of a speak alert command a display text command a create phrase command and a prompt and listen command.

U.S. Patent Application 2013 0102300 generally discloses a system for automatically restarting an application running on a smartphone present in a predetermined environment after the application has been paused. A hardware interconnect apparatus may be configured to establish a first communications link with the smartphone and also to establish a second communications link with an electronic device present at the predetermined environment. A processor executable auto launch application may be adapted to run on the smartphone to detect when a previously selected application has been at least one of stopped or paused and to automatically re start the previously selected application without a command being physically entered on the smartphone by a user of the smartphone.

In a first illustrative embodiment a vehicle computing system including at least one controller in communication with a transceiver. The transceiver is capable of communication with a wireless device. The at least one controller may be configured to transmit a unique identifier to the wireless device in response to an accident detection. The controller may be further configured to receive a communication link from the wireless device if a mobile application on the wireless device matches the unique identifier. The controller may be further configured to communicate data portraying the accident to the mobile application.

In a second illustrative embodiment a mobile device including at least one controller in communication with one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers are capable of communication with a vehicle computing system VCS and a server. The at least one controller may be configured to receive a broadcast notification via short range wireless communication from the VCS. The controller may be further configured to search for a mobile application based on the broadcast notification. The controller may be further configured to enable the mobile application that matches with the broadcast notification. The controller may be further configured to transmit a communication link to the VCS based on the broadcast notification. The controller may be further configured to receive an accident notification from the VCS and communicate the accident notification to the server.

In a third illustrative embodiment a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer read able medium that is programmed for communicating accident data to a vehicle computing system VCS and at least one server. The computer program product may comprise instructions for receiving a broadcast notification via short range wireless communication from the VCS. The computer program product may comprise further instructions for searching for a mobile application based on the broadcast notification. The computer program product may comprise further instructions for enabling the mobile application matches with the broadcast notification. The computer program product may comprise further instructions for transmitting a communication link to the VCS based on the broadcast notification. The computer program product may comprise further instructions for receiving an accident notification from the VCS and communicating the accident notification to the server.

In a fourth illustrative embodiment a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer read able medium that is programmed for communicating accident data to a wireless device. The computer program product may comprise instructions for transmitting a unique identifier to the wireless device in response to an accident detection. The computer program product may comprise further instructions for receiving a communication link from the wireless device if a mobile application on the wireless device matches the unique identifier. The computer program product may comprise further instructions for communicating data portraying the accident to the mobile application.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein. It is to be understood however that the disclosed embodiments are merely examples and other embodiments can take various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features could be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the embodiments. As those of ordinary skill in the art will understand various features illustrated and described with reference to any one of the figures can be combined with features illustrated in one or more other figures to produce embodiments that are not explicitly illustrated or described. The combinations of features illustrated provide representative embodiments for typical applications. Various combinations and modifications of the features consistent with the teachings of this disclosure however could be desired for particular applications or implementations.

The embodiments of the present disclosure generally provide for a plurality of circuits or other electrical devices. All references to the circuits and other electrical devices and the functionality provided by each are not intended to be limited to encompassing only what is illustrated and described herein. While particular labels may be assigned to the various circuits or other electrical devices disclosed such labels are not intended to limit the scope of operation for the circuits and the other electrical devices. Such circuits and other electrical devices may be combined with each other and or separated in any manner based on the particular type of electrical implementation that is desired. It is recognized that any circuit or other electrical device disclosed herein may include any number of microprocessors integrated circuits memory devices e.g. FLASH random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other suitable variants thereof and software which co act with one another to perform operation s disclosed herein. In addition any one or more of the electric devices may be configured to execute a computer program that is embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that is programmed to perform any number of the functions as disclosed.

A vehicle may include a computing system that is configured to allow a communication link between one or more wireless devices i.e. nomadic devices . The nomadic device may communicate with the vehicle computing system using wireless and or wired technology. The communication link enables the vehicle computing system to connect to application s on the nomadic device. The information communicated via the application s between the vehicle computing system and the nomadic device may include internet radio social media information and or navigation data. The applications may also include driver safety related information including but not limited to 24 Hour roadside assistance 911 ASSIST and or call center services.

The one or more applications on the nomadic device may have several states of operation including but not limited to enabled running in the foreground enabled running in the background and or disabled. The application state of operation may determine whether the vehicle computing system may receive data once communication is established with the nomadic device. The vehicle computing system may require that the application on the smartphone be enabled and running in the foreground such that the system may communicate with the application. For example if the nomadic device such as a smartphone establishes communication with the vehicle computing system the application s that is either running in the background and or disabled on the smartphone may not communicate data with the vehicle computing system.

The method and system for initiating i.e. launching an application on the nomadic device once communication with the vehicle computing system is established may be disclosed in this document. The vehicle computing system includes one or more applications executed on the hardware of the system to communicate with the nomadic device. The vehicle computing system may communicate with the nomadic device based on one or more wireless technologies. This disclosure may allow for the vehicle computing system to provide a means of sending wakeup notifications to the nomadic device using wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy . This disclosure may also allow for the vehicle computing system to automatically launch one or more applications at the nomadic devices via the notification.

In the illustrative embodiment shown in a processor controls at least some portion of the operation of the vehicle based computing system. Provided within the vehicle the processor allows onboard processing of commands and routines. Further the processor is connected to both non persistent and persistent storage . In this illustrative embodiment the non persistent storage is random access memory RAM and the persistent storage is a hard disk drive HDD or flash memory. In general persistent non transitory memory can include all forms of memory that maintain data when a computer or other device is powered down. These include but are not limited to HDDs CDs DVDs magnetic tapes solid state drives portable USB drives and any other suitable form of persistent memory.

The processor is also provided with a number of different inputs allowing the user to interface with the processor. In this illustrative embodiment a microphone an auxiliary input for input a USB input a GPS input screen which may be a touchscreen display and a BLUETOOTH input are all provided. An input selector is also provided to allow a user to swap between various inputs. Input to both the microphone and the auxiliary connector is converted from analog to digital by a converter before being passed to the processor. Although not shown numerous of the vehicle components and auxiliary components in communication with the VCS may use a vehicle network such as but not limited to a CAN bus to pass data to and from the VCS or components thereof .

Outputs to the system can include but are not limited to a visual display and a speaker or stereo system output. The speaker is connected to an amplifier and receives its signal from the processor through a digital to analog converter . Output can also be made to a remote BLUETOOTH device such as PND or a USB device such as vehicle navigation device along the bi directional data streams shown at and respectively.

In one illustrative embodiment the system uses the BLUETOOTH transceiver to communicate with a user s nomadic device e.g. cell phone smart phone PDA or any other device having wireless remote network connectivity . The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments tower may be a WiFi access point.

Exemplary communication between the nomadic device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver is represented by signal .

Pairing a nomadic device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver can be instructed through a button or similar input. Accordingly the CPU is instructed that the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver will be paired with a BLUETOOTH transceiver in a nomadic device.

Data may be communicated between CPU and network utilizing for example a data plan data over voice or DTMF tones associated with nomadic device . Alternatively it may be desirable to include an onboard modem having antenna in order to communicate data between CPU and network over the voice band. The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments the modem may establish communication with the tower for communicating with network . As a non limiting example modem may be a USB cellular modem and communication may be cellular communication.

In one illustrative embodiment the processor is provided with an operating system including an API to communicate with modem application software. The modem application software may access an embedded module or firmware on the BLUETOOTH transceiver to complete wireless communication with a remote BLUETOOTH transceiver such as that found in a nomadic device . Bluetooth is a subset of the IEEE 802 PAN personal area network protocols. IEEE 802 LAN local area network protocols include WiFi and have considerable cross functionality with IEEE 802 PAN. Both are suitable for wireless communication within a vehicle. Another communication means that can be used in this realm is free space optical communication such as IrDA and non standardized consumer IR protocols.

In another embodiment nomadic device includes a modem for voice band or broadband data communication. In the data over voice embodiment a technique known as frequency division multiplexing may be implemented when the owner of the nomadic device can talk over the device while data is being transferred. At other times when the owner is not using the device the data transfer can use the whole bandwidth 300 Hz to 3.4 kHz in one example . While frequency division multiplexing may be common for analog cellular communication between the vehicle and the internet and is still used it has been largely replaced by hybrids of Code Domain Multiple Access CDMA Time Domain Multiple Access TDMA Space Domain Multiple Access SDMA for digital cellular communication. These are all ITU IMT 2000 3G compliant standards and offer data rates up to 2 mbs for stationary or walking users and 385 kbs for users in a moving vehicle. 3G standards are now being replaced by IMT Advanced 4G which offers 100 mbs for users in a vehicle and 1 gbs for stationary users. If the user has a data plan associated with the nomadic device it is possible that the data plan allows for broad band transmission and the system could use a much wider bandwidth speeding up data transfer . In still another embodiment nomadic device is replaced with a cellular communication device not shown that is installed to vehicle . In yet another embodiment the ND may be a wireless local area network LAN device capable of communication over for example and without limitation an 802.11g network i.e. WiFi or a WiMax network.

In one embodiment incoming data can be passed through the nomadic device via a data over voice or data plan through the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver and into the vehicle s internal processor . In the case of certain temporary data for example the data can be stored on the HDD or other storage media until such time as the data is no longer needed.

Additional sources that may interface with the vehicle include a personal navigation device having for example a USB connection and or an antenna a vehicle navigation device having a USB or other connection an onboard GPS device or remote navigation system not shown having connectivity to network . USB is one of a class of serial networking protocols. IEEE 1394 FireWire Apple i.LINK Sony and Lynx Texas Instruments EIA Electronics Industry Association serial protocols IEEE 1284 Centronics Port S PDIF Sony Philips Digital Interconnect Format and USB IF USB Implementers Forum form the backbone of the device device serial standards. Most of the protocols can be implemented for either electrical or optical communication.

Further the CPU could be in communication with a variety of other auxiliary devices . These devices can be connected through a wireless or wired connection. Auxiliary device may include but are not limited to personal media players wireless health devices portable computers and the like.

Also or alternatively the CPU could be connected to a vehicle based wireless router using for example a WiFi IEEE 803.11 transceiver. This could allow the CPU to connect to remote networks in range of the local router .

In addition to having exemplary processes executed by a vehicle computing system located in a vehicle in certain embodiments the exemplary processes may be executed by a computing system in communication with a vehicle computing system. Such a system may include but is not limited to a wireless device e.g. and without limitation a mobile phone or a remote computing system e.g. and without limitation a server connected through the wireless device. Collectively such systems may be referred to as vehicle associated computing systems VACS . In certain embodiments particular components of the VACS may perform particular portions of a process depending on the particular implementation of the system. By way of example and not limitation if a process has a step of sending or receiving information with a paired wireless device then it is likely that the wireless device is not performing the process since the wireless device would not send and receive information with itself. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand when it is inappropriate to apply a particular VACS to a given solution. In all solutions it is contemplated that at least the vehicle computing system VCS located within the vehicle itself is capable of performing the exemplary processes.

As mentioned above the CPU of the VCS may be configured to interface with one or more nomadic devices of various types. The nomadic device may further include a device integration client component to allow the nomadic device e.g. smartphone to take advantage of the services provided by the device integration framework . The device integration client component may be referred to as an application. The application is executed on hardware of the nomadic device . The application may communicate data from the nomadic device to the VCS via the transceiver.

The one or more transceivers may include a multiport connector hub . The multiport connector hub may be used to interface between the CPU and additional types of connected devices other than the nomadic devices . The multiport connector hub may communicate with the CPU over various buses and protocols such as via USB and may further communicate with the connected devices using various other connection buses and protocols such as Serial Peripheral Interface Bus SPI Inter integrated circuit I2C and or Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART . The multiport connector hub may further perform communication protocol translation and interworking services between the protocols used by the connected devices and the protocol used between the multiport connector hub and the CPU . The connected devices may include as some non limiting examples a radar detector a global position receiver device and a storage device .

The VCS may initialize and or enable hardware components of the system based on a wakeup indicator not shown . The wakeup indicator may include but is not limited to a vehicle start request a touch or pull of a door handle a signal received from a seat sensor and or a combination thereof. The wakeup indicator may enable one or more transceivers of the VCS to broadcast a signal to search for the nomadic device in proximity of the vehicle . For example the VCS may be configured to transmit the signal e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy Near Field Communication etc. . . . in a predefined periodic interval in a predefined continuous period and or a combination thereof. In another example the VCS may communicate with the nomadic device via a wired connection . The VCS may transmit a broadcast signal via the wired connection . For example once a user connects the nomadic device via a wired connection the VCS may push a notification to wakeup initialize one or more applications at the nomadic device . The notification may include but is not limited to a unique identifier associated with the one or more applications.

The wireless broadcasted signal may be generated by the wireless transceiver . The wireless broadcast signal may notify the presence of the VCS to the nomadic device . For example the wireless transceiver may include but is not limited to an iBaeacon broadcast. The wireless transceiver generating the iBeacon signal may include but is not limited to a low powered wireless transceiver . The iBeacon broadcast generated by the wireless transceiver may send a push notification to the nomadic devices i.e. wireless devices in close proximity of the VCS .

The iBeacon may use a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE proximity sensing to transmit a universally unique identifier UUID . The UUID is an identifier standard that may be used to uniquely identify the application on the nomadic device associated with the VCS . For example the nomadic device may include an application with the UUID e.g. a sixty four hexadecimal character identifier .

The VCS may receive a wakeup indicator to begin the iBeacon broadcast comprising the UUID. The iBeacon broadcast may be transmitted to one or more nomadic devices in proximity of the vehicle . The iBeacon broadcast may include the UUID associated with the application stored at the nomadic device .

The nomadic device may receive the UUID in which the operating system may process. The nomadic device may determine if an application matches the UUID. If a match is found the nomadic device may launch the application. The nomadic device may launch the application via the iBeacon UUID in several application operating states including but not limited to running in the background suspended and or in a terminated state.

Once the application is launched the nomadic device may transmit data to the VCS to notify that the application is executed. For example referring back to the accident notification application the nomadic device may transmit a message notifying the VCS that the application is monitoring if an accident has occurred. The nomadic device may transmit and receive data to from the VCS via generic attribute profile protocol i.e. GATT .

The VCS may monitor via one or more sensors to determine if an accident has occurred. If an accident is detected the VCS may transmit a message via the wireless signal to the nomadic device . For example the 911 ASSIST application on the nomadic device may already be enabled based on the iBeacon broadcast signal such that the received message may be processed and used by the application to instruct the device to contact a call center .

In another example the VCS may monitor via one or more sensors to determine if an accident has occurred. If an accident is detected the VCS may transmit the iBeacon comprising the UUID to execute the 911 ASSIST application at the nomadic device . Once the 911 ASSIST application is executed the nomadic device may receive accident information. The nomadic device may transmit the accident information to the call center .

In another example the VCS may have an embedded cellular modem not shown such that if an accident is detected the system may transmit the accident information data via a wireless signal to a network in communication with the call center . In this example the VCS may also transmit the iBeacon to the nomadic device to enable post crash notification messages to one or more predefined contacts via the 911 ASSIST application . Once the application is enabled the system may transmit post crash notification information via the nomadic device to the one or more predefined preconfigured contacts. The 911 ASSIST application may forward this information to one or more preconfigured contacts using SMS text messages emails and or a social media platforms.

The VCS may transmit a request to initialize the Bluetooth wireless transceiver based on the wakeup signal a predefined periodic broadcast pulse and or a combination thereof. The Bluetooth wireless transceiver may broadcast a wireless protocol such as iBeacon to provide a means of sending notifications to the nomadic device . The iBeacon broadcast may comprise a defined UUID. The UUID may be defined by an original equipment manufacturer. For example the UUID may be generated randomly with a common tool available on most operating systems. The UUID is randomly generated and is large enough that it may be unlikely that the UUID would be duplicated.

The nomadic device e.g. smartphone tablet etc. . . . may receive the UUID via iBeacon . The nomadic device may search in the operating system software database for the mobile application that matches the UUID received from the VCS . The nomadic device may find the application that is associated with the UUID received from the VCS . The nomadic device may launch the application having the UUID even if the application is in the background suspended terminated and or the smartphone is locked.

The nomadic device may establish a communication link via the wireless protocol i.e. iBeacon using the mobile application s Bluetooth service. The mobile application being launched at the nomadic device may transmit application data to the VCS . The application data may include but is not limited to a status bit informing the VCS that the application is running. The Bluetooth wireless transceiver may transmit the application data to the one or more processors at the VCS for execution.

The VCS may include one or more systems that notify prevent and or detect when an accident has occurred. The one or more systems may include but is not limited to an airbag deployment system a brake assist system and or a traction control system. The VCS may monitor the one or more systems to determine if the vehicle has been in an accident. If the VCS detects that an accident has occurred the VCS may generate accident data for transmission to the nomadic device . The Bluetooth transceiver may transmit the accident data to the nomadic device . The nomadic device may receive the accident data and execute the data via the mobile application.

The application may include several features and functions including but not limited to contacting the call center sending data to the call center generating and sending message to one or more contacts telephoning one or more contacts and or a combination thereof. The application may request additional data from the VCS regarding vehicle information and passenger information.

For example if an accident is detected by the VCS the application may request latitude and longitude data of the crash site. The application may also request passenger data including but not limited to seatbelt status. The VCS may transmit the additional data requested from the application.

The application may provide software instructions for execution on hardware at the nomadic device to transmit the crash location and passenger data to the call center. The application may also provide software instructions for execution on hardware at the nomadic device to generate post crash notification messages to friends and family via short message service SMS and or a social network infrastructure.

Referring again to the vehicle and its components illustrated in and are referenced throughout the discussion of the method to facilitate understanding of various aspects of the present disclosure. The method of launching the application at the nomadic device via a communication link with the VCS may be implemented through a computer algorithm machine executable code or software instructions programmed into a suitable programmable logic device s of the vehicle such as the vehicle control module the device control module another controller in communication with the vehicle computing system or a combination thereof. Although the various operations shown in the flowchart diagram appear to occur in a chronological sequence at least some of the operations may occur in a different order and some operations may be performed concurrently or not at all.

In operation a user may initialize the VCS by engaging a turn on request of a vehicle ignition system. The turn on request enables the VCS to initialize several systems subsystems hardware components and or software routines.

In operation the VCS may broadcast the iBeacon transmission via BLE. The iBeacon protocol may wakeup one or more applications at the nomadic device . The iBeacon may transmit an UUID such that a compatible application or operating system may be commanded to trigger action at the nomadic device . The nomadic device i.e. mobile device may receive the iBeacon broadcast from the VCS . The mobile application and VCS are connected via BLE after passing appropriate security handshakes and protocols in operation .

In operation the VCS may receive confirmation from the nomadic device that the iBeacon was received and or the compatible application has been launched. The VCS may periodically check that the mobile application is running in the background and is communicating to the VCS in operation .

In one example the VCS may implement a security process to ensure that communication with the mobile application is acceptable for use in the vehicle. The VCS may transmit a token to authenticate the nomadic device. The token ensures that the nomadic device may be acceptable to communicate with the VCS . In another example a message protocol may be used to encode messages exchanged between the nomadic device and the VCS to command and control authorized communication.

In operation the VCS may detect a crash and transmit an accident notification via BLE GATT services to the mobile application. The VCS may transmit additional data including but not limited to vehicle information and passenger information via the BLE GATT services.

In operation the VCS may get confirmation that the mobile application receives the data from the VCS and executes a post crash notification function s accordingly. For example if the VCS detects an accident has occurred the system may transmit data to the nomadic device via BLE GATT services. The data may include but is not limited to latitude and longitude information. The mobile application may transmit the data received from the VCS to the call center. The mobile application may also transmit data received from the VCS to friends and family via post crash notification.

In operation the VCS may discontinue communication with the mobile device based on several factors including but not limited to the location of the mobile device and or the VCS being requested to power down. It must be noted that the mobile application at the nomadic device may continue to generate and transmit one or more post crash messages to predefined contacts after communication is discontinued with the VCS .

In operation the VCS may continuously broadcast the iBeacon transmission via BLE. The iBeacon transmission may include several messages including but not limited to the UUID. The BLE may include low power requirements to enable the continuous broadcast of iBeacon without discharging the vehicle battery system.

In operation the VCS may receive a notice that the mobile device received a wireless transmission while approaching the vehicle within the proximity range of the BLE. The VCS may transmit the iBeacon having a UUID in operation . The mobile device may receive the iBeacon broadcast from the VCS and wake up the mobile application associated with the UUID. For example the mobile device and vehicle handshake may be done using BLE allowing for low power and low latency applications from the wireless device within a short range e.g. up to 50 meters 160 feet . This facilitates the mobile device being recognized by the VCS as the user approaches the vehicle without using a lot of vehicle battery power.

In operation the mobile application and VCS may be connected via BLE after passing appropriate security handshakes and protocols. For example the VCS in communication with a passive entry passive start PEPS controller and the mobile device may undergo a series of communications back and forth to each other e.g. handshaking for vehicle access mobile application authentication purpose. If the handshake is accomplished the mobile device may transmit the one or more security properties to the VCS and or PEPS controller. The PEPS controller and or VCS may receive from the mobile device one or more securities codes.

In another example the VCS and or PEPS controller may determine if the mobile device transmitted the correct security code properties associated with that vehicle to allow communication between the VCS and mobile device application. If the mobile device transmitted the correct security codes associated with that vehicle the VCS and or PEPS controller may allow control communication request of the received vehicle data and or functions from the mobile device .

In operation the VCS may receive a request to monitor vehicle specific data and sensors via BLE GATT communication protocol with the mobile application. For example the mobile application may monitor door lock status ignition status climate controls tire pressure vehicle crash detection i.e. accident occurred gas level etc. . . . .

In operation the VCS may receive specific functions based on the vehicle data and or user data via the mobile application. The mobile application may receive vehicle and personal data and based on the data generate one or more messages. The one or more messages may include a request to control a vehicle function and or execute a notification to a user based on a vehicle function.

In operation the VCS may receive a vehicle specific request via the mobile application. The VCS may execute the vehicle specific request received from the mobile application in operation . For example the VCS may receive a request to instruct the system to notify the mobile device if an accident is detected via one or more wireless transmissions of messages.

In operation the VCS may receive specific requests based on the vehicle data and or user data via the mobile application. The VCS may execute the application specific request received from the mobile application in operation . For example the mobile application may request to be notified how many occupants are in the vehicle. The VCS may monitor the number of occupants and transmit this data to the mobile application via the mobile device Bluetooth communication link.

In operation the VCS may discontinue communication with the mobile device based on several factors including but not limited to the location of the mobile device and or the VCS being requested to power down.

In operation the mobile application may receive the UUID via the iBeacon transmission received from the VCS. The one or more mobile applications may determine if the nomadic device has been paired with the VCS. If the nomadic device has not been paired with the VCS the VCS may request a pairing sequence in operation .

In operation if the nomadic device has been previously paired to the VCS the nomadic device may begin searching for one or more applications related to the UUID. If the nomadic device has an interruption in the communication link to the VCS the mobile application may request communication with the VCS in operation .

In operation the nomadic device may search for the one or more mobile applications that may have the same UUID as the one received from the iBeacon. If the nomadic device finds a match of the UUID associated with a mobile application the device may launch the mobile application in operating

In one example the nomadic device may implement a security process to ensure the UUID and or the associated mobile applications are acceptable to communicate with the VCS. For example once the nomadic device discovers the mobile application comprising the UUID the nomadic device may check with a backend server to determine if the mobile application may be used in the vehicle.

In operation the nomadic device may transmit one or more messages to the VCS via the GATT protocol. The one or more message may include at least one variable related to vehicle accident detection. The mobile application may monitor one or more vehicle accident variables via the GATT protocol in operation .

In operation the mobile application may determine if a predefined event is detected based on monitoring the one or more variables. For example the predefined event may include the mobile application determining if a crash is detected based on the monitoring of the one or more variables. If a crash is detected the mobile application may request additional data from the VCS in operation . For example the additional data may include but is not limited to the number of passengers the location of the vehicle and or other accident related information.

In operation the mobile application may transmit via the nomadic device the additional data to several entities including but not limited to a call center 911 dispatch police station and or one or more contacts preconfigured by a user. For example the mobile application may first establish a connection with the call center and or the 911 dispatch. The communication of information to the call center and or 911 dispatch may allow first responders emergency personal to assist with the accident. The nomadic device may transmit one or more messages to a preconfigured contact. The message may include but is not limited to an established communication connection between the contact and the user a text message transmitted to the contact an email transmitted to the contact a social media message to the contact and or a combination thereof.

It must be noted that the nomadic device may have several configurations including but not limited to an external portable device carried by a user an embedded device configured with the VCS and or a combination thereof. For example the nomadic device being the external portable device carried by the user may be a smartphone. In another example the embedded device configured with the VCS may include an embedded cellular telephone and or modem.

In operation the nomadic device may disable the one or more application if a user request to turn them off and or the nomadic device is powered down.

In operation the user may enter the vehicle and turn on the ignition switch to initialize the VCS. The initialization of the VCS may include a wireless protocol transmission i.e. Bluetooth via one or more transceivers in operation . The Bluetooth transmission may include the iBeacon broadcast.

In operation the VCS may receive a request to connect from the nomadic device via the wireless transmission of the Bluetooth protocol or through the use of a wired connection i.e. USB . The VCS may determine if the device is requesting to connect with the system in operation .

In operation if the device has not been previously paired with the VCS the system may request configuration. If the device has been previously paired with the VCS the system may establish communication with the device via a handshake process in operation .

In operation the VCS may transmit a request via iBeacon to launch an application configured to communicate with the system based on the UUID. The VCS may receive one or more messages to confirm related applications are launched at the device in operation .

In operation the VCS may monitor if the one or more vehicle systems detect variables associated with the applications launched at the device. For example the application may be related to accident detection and emergency response therefore the VCS may monitor one or more variables related to accident detection.

In operation the VCS may determine if a vehicle status event occurred e.g. an accident has occurred . If an accident is detected the VCS may connect an occupant in the vehicle to the call center via the application at the device in operation .

In operation once the VCS has established a communication link to the call center via the nomadic device the system may transmit data to the call center. The data may include but is not limited to vehicle location.

In operation the VCS may monitor if the communication with the call center is complete. If the communication with the call center has ended the VCS may transmit a notification to the device. The VCS may transmit a message notification to one or more predefined contacts via the application at the device in operation .

In operation the VCS may discontinue communication with the nomadic device however the device may continue to enable the mobile application to transmit post crash message s to one or more contacts.

In operation the nomadic device may connect to the VCS using wireless and or wired technology. After handshaking and or other security protocols to pair the nomadic device with the VCS the device may begin communicating with the VCS in operation .

In operation the nomadic device may receive data from the VCS notifying that an accident has occurred. The nomadic device may receive a message from the VCS to connect the occupant to the call center in operation .

In operation the nomadic device may transmit data to the call center. In one example the occupant may talk with a call center agent via the connection established with the call center. In another example the transmitted data to the call center may include but is not limited to vehicle location and or the number of passengers in the vehicle.

In operation the nomadic device may monitor when the communication with the call center is complete. If the communication is complete the nomadic device may receive a push notification from the call center to wake up a mobile application at the nomadic device in operation . The push notification may be delivered to the device by a token and include the crash event details such as direction time of response severity of event.

In operation in response to the push notification the nomadic device may launch the mobile application. The mobile application may include but is not limited to a post crash notification application. The post crash notification application may transmit one or more messages to preconfigured contacts. The post crash notification may enable immediate and automatic occupant update s based on the crash to at least one predefined contact. The post crash notification may be communicated to one or more contacts via SMS text messages emails social networks and or a combination thereof. The nomadic device may disable the one or more application if a user request to turn them off and or the nomadic device is powered down in operation .

The smartphone may establish a wireless communication connection with the head unit . The wireless communication may be established based on several methods including but not limited to a pairing process that is an initial linkage between the head unit and the smartphone . The wireless communication may include but is not limited to Bluetooth BLE NFC and or WiFi.

The one or more mobile applications at the smartphone may execute certain functions based on information data received from the head unit via the wireless communication . For example if the head unit detects that the vehicle has been in an accident the system may transmit a message to the smartphone to perform a function. The smartphone may be instructed by the head unit to establish communication with the call center based on the accident detection message.

The smartphone may establish communication with the call center . The smartphone comprises an operating system executed on hardware of the device that may transmit a device token to the call center . The device token may be sent to the call center such that the smartphone telephone number may be registered alongside the device token. The device token registered alongside the telephone number may be stored at a database . The database may be associated with a vehicle manufacturer the call center the mobile application and or a combination thereof. In one example the smartphone may transmit that the vehicle has been in an accident to the call center . The call center may match the device token using the incoming phone number received from the smartphone .

The call center may comprise a network having one or more computers in communication via one or more servers. The call center may receive crash data via the communication link with the smartphone . In one example the call center may have an agent that may record details of the crash in the call center database. The details may include but is not limited to the location severity and number of passengers.

The call center may request the device token from the database based on the incoming phone number. The call center may receive the device token from the database . After the call has ended the call center may transmit a push notification using the device token to the smartphone device server i.e. push service . The push notification may include but is not limited to device token vehicle data and or passenger data.

The push service may transmit a wake application request to the smartphone . The device token be used to identify the smartphone for the wake application request via the push notification. The smartphone may receive the push notification and the requested application may wake up. In one example the application may be a post crash notification application that is used to transmit one or more message to a preconfigured contact based on the accident notification. The post crash notification may transmit details related to the accident to an assigned server for processing. The post crash notification may also transmit details related to the accident to the preconfigured emergency contact through Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP SMS and or other services.

In operation the nomadic device may receive data from the head unit via a wireless connection based on one or more predefined events. The one or more predefined events may be set by the mobile application executed at the nomadic device by a user and or a combination thereof. The nomadic device may determine if a connection has been established with the mobile application comprising an application programming interface API configured to communicate with the head unit in operation .

In operation if the mobile application comprising the API is connected the nomadic device may transmit a SMS message comprising global positioning system GPS data to the call center. For example if the nomadic device is executing the mobile application configured to communicate with the head unit based on the API the device may transmit additional data to the call center via wireless communication. In another example the nomadic device may determine if an internet connection is available and based on the connection transmit an HTTP with GPS data to the call center in operation .

In operation the nomadic device may wait to receive a confirmation from the call center to determine if the information transmitted to the call center was successfully received. For example the mobile application may attempt to transmit the data again if the initial transmission of data to the call center has failed.

In operation if the nomadic device is not communicating with the head unit via the API and or there is not an internet connection the nomadic device may wait for the call center call to complete before transmitting additional data. For example the nomadic device may monitor when the communication with the call center is complete before receiving a push notification from the call center to wake up the mobile application.

In operation once the call to the call center is complete the call center API may push a wake command to the nomadic device. The wake command may start the mobile application requested by the API. For example the call center may transmit a push notification having an API defined to wake up a post crash notification application.

In operation the mobile application executed on hardware at the nomadic device may send SMS to one or more predefined contacts e.g. in case of emergency ICE contacts . If an internet connection is available the nomadic device may transmit the messages to the one or more predefined contacts via the internet in operation .

In operation the mobile application may transmit one or more message notifications to available ICE contacts and or a social network server. For example the one or more message notifications may include but is not limited to Weibo notification social media messages text messages and or email messages.

In operation if an internet connection is not available the mobile application may transmit a request to call the one or more predefined contacts. In another example if the internet connection is unavailable the mobile device may text the one or more predefined contacts.

In operation the mobile application may monitor when a call has ended between the one or more predefined contacts. For example the mobile application may automatically redial and or dial one or more predefined contacts. The mobile application may receive a request to not call and or communicate data to the one or more predefined contacts. If the mobile application receives a request not to call communicate with the one or more predefined contacts the mobile application may reset and disable the application in operation .

In operation the nomadic device may disable the one or more applications if a user request to turn them off and or the nomadic device is powered down. The mobile application may be woken up and or re initialized if a request is received by the head unit i.e. VCS and or the call center i.e. one or more servers .

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms encompassed by the claims. The words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. As previously described the features of various embodiments can be combined to form further embodiments of the invention that may not be explicitly described or illustrated. While various embodiments could have been described as providing advantages or being preferred over other embodiments or prior art implementations with respect to one or more desired characteristics those of ordinary skill in the art recognize that one or more features or characteristics can be compromised to achieve desired overall system attributes which depend on the specific application and implementation. These attributes can include but are not limited to cost strength durability life cycle cost marketability appearance packaging size serviceability weight manufacturability ease of assembly etc. As such embodiments described as less desirable than other embodiments or prior art implementations with respect to one or more characteristics are not outside the scope of the disclosure and can be desirable for particular applications.

