---

title: Aircraft departure profile generation compliant with noise abatement limits
abstract: Systems and methods are described for dynamically generating flight departure profiles that are in compliance with aircraft emission limits. Emission limits may include noise abatement limits. Flight departure profiles may be generated on a flight by flight basis, and/or may be based on then-current conditions such as wind speed, wind direction, and ambient temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483052&OS=09483052&RS=09483052
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 09483052
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140612
---
The following related applications and materials are incorporated herein in their entireties for all purposes U.S. Pat. No. 7 584 028 and U.S. Patent Pub. No. 2013 0238173A1.

More specifically the disclosed embodiments relate to systems and methods to leverage aircraft performance and flight efficiency for noise abatement during the departure phase.

Noise generated at and near an airport is typically limited and monitored by the airport and surrounding community. Airports may limit noise for all aircraft during a certain period of time limit noise for each takeoff i.e. departure or a combination of such approaches. Known systems for determining departure profiles have only focused on noise abatement without regard to how the profile may adversely affect other aircraft operations and factors such as fuel efficiency. These departure profiles are one size fits all for every flight regardless of the type of aircraft ambient conditions payload etc. and take into account only worst case scenarios for thrust climb and speed to ensure that the aircraft departs safely and meets noise level restrictions.

Noise abatement may also be addressed by the airline specific operations specification Ops Spec which is a document contained within the airline s Flight Operations Manual FOM . Ops Specs are required by 14 CFR 119.49 for each certificate holder conducting domestic flag or commuter operations. The Ops Spec contains guidance on topics such as Authority to Operate Prohibited Operations Takeoff Approach and Landing En Route Airports and Maintenance. The Ops Spec provides guidance and instructions to the pilot for takeoff operations. Many airports also publish their own noise abatement takeoff guidance.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system comprising a flight performance data generator configured to receive current condition inputs and a desired departure profile the flight performance data generator further configured to calculate departure performance data for an aircraft based on the desired departure profile and the current condition inputs and a comparison module configured to receive one or more external criteria to compare the one or more external criteria to at least one value corresponding to the calculated departure performance data and to provide a comparison output indicating a result of the comparison.

In some embodiments a computer system for generating a departure profile for an aircraft may include a processor a memory and a departure profile generating program including a plurality of instructions stored in the memory that are executed by the processor to receive current condition inputs and a first departure profile calculate first departure performance data for an aircraft based on the current condition inputs and the first departure profile determine a first relationship between one or more external criteria and the first departure performance data and provide an output corresponding to the first relationship.

In some embodiments a method for generating a flight departure profile that is compliant with an emission limit at a monitoring location may include receiving a desired flight departure profile and one or more current ambient conditions generating flight performance data describing a flight path of a selected aircraft following the desired flight departure profile under the current ambient conditions determining an expected environmental emission of the aircraft as sensed at a selected monitoring location comparing the expected environmental emission of the aircraft to an emission abatement limit to determine a relationship therebetween and communicating the relationship.

The features functions and advantages may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present disclosure or may be combined in yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for generating aircraft departure profiles that are compliant with environmental emission criteria are described below and illustrated in the associated drawings. Unless otherwise specified a profile generator and or its various components may but are not required to contain at least one of the structure components functionality and or variations described illustrated and or incorporated herein. Furthermore the structures components functionalities and or variations described illustrated and or incorporated herein in connection with the present teachings may but are not required to be included in other systems and methods for generating aircraft related information. The following description of various embodiments is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the disclosure its application or uses. Additionally the advantages provided by the embodiments as described below are illustrative in nature and not all embodiments provide the same advantages or the same degree of advantages.

Systems and methods will now be described with respect to a dynamic ground based system for computing low noise efficient flight departure profiles on a flight by flight basis using then current conditions.

Commercial airports such as the illustrative airport shown in and generally indicated at typically include one or more runways each of which may include one or more defined departure tracks . Each track indicates a prescribed path over the ground that a given aircraft will fly as defined by certain landmarks and or bearing angles. However departure tracks do not typically include information regarding other dimensions of an aircraft departure such as altitude thrust and velocity of a given aircraft along the track. These other dimensions are typically determined by a departure profile which may include information such as thrust reduction altitude engine climb power settings etc. Accordingly each track may be followed by an aircraft adhering to any suitable departure profile.

Referring again to emission monitoring stations such as noise monitoring stations are typically disposed along one or more of the departure tracks or in a suitably adjacent location for monitoring emissions of aircraft following the respective tracks. For example an aircraft departing along track may be monitored by noise monitoring station . Violation of established noise abatement limits may be reported to the appropriate authorities. Fines for violation of such limits typically levied against the corresponding airline can be quite high. Accordingly for this and for other reasons it is desirable to avoid violation of noise abatement limits. At the same time excessive compliance in which the aircraft meets the limits by a wide margin may also be undesirable because it is both costly and unnecessary.

In general a departure profile generator in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure may include a flight performance data generator module that receives as inputs a desired flight profile and current conditions such as weather runway condition and aircraft configuration. Based on the desired profile and the conditions the module generates flight performance data also referred to as parameters for the aircraft such as altitude velocity and thrust vs. distance. This data may be received by a simulation and compliance module that determines environmental emissions e.g. noise carbon greenhouse gases etc. from the aircraft that can be expected at known monitoring stations based on the flight performance data. The emissions are then compared to criteria such as abatement limits and one or more relationships between the emissions and the criteria are determined. The relationship is then communicated such as to the user so that the desired flight profile may be modified to change the relationship. For example if noise emissions exceed allowable noise abatement limits the desired profile can be modified to reduce noise.

Aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a computer method computer system or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code and the like or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects all of which may generally be referred to herein as a circuit module unit or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium or media having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media can be a computer readable signal medium and or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may include an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared and or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of these. More specific examples of a computer readable storage medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device and or any suitable combination of these and or the like. In the context of this disclosure a computer readable storage medium may include any suitable tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical and or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may include any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that is capable of communicating propagating or transporting a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF and or the like and or any suitable combination of these.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in one or any combination of programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C and or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN and or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatuses systems and or computer program products according to aspects of the present disclosure. Each block and or combination of blocks in a flowchart and or block diagram may be implemented by computer program instructions. The computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions can also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus and or other device to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions can also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus and or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Any flowchart and or block diagram in the drawings is intended to illustrate the architecture functionality and or operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to aspects of the present disclosure. In this regard each block may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the drawings. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Each block and or combination of blocks may be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions that perform the specified functions or acts.

Systems and methods in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure can be used by dispatchers at airlines to determine optimum takeoff or departure profiles for each flight. These systems and methods may be used by airports for planning purposes such as when determining impact of changes to airport infrastructure or regulations. In some embodiments the system is configured to tailor a departure profile for a certain aircraft at a certain airport under current conditions. As such the system can reduce fuel consumption while still meeting noise and other restrictions e.g. runway length obstacles past the runway etc. .

A user such as a dispatcher or airline employee may input current conditions and a desired departure profile into the system. The desired departure profile is determined by an airline to achieve one or more airline goals e.g. reduced fuel consumption reduced emissions reduced thrust faster takeoff speed and or higher altitude sooner in the departure . Current conditions may include information specific to the aircraft and payload ambient weather conditions and information specific to the airport. These current conditions may be input into fields on a graphical user interface.

In some embodiments the system may use the desired departure profile and current conditions to calculate departure parameters of an optimized departure profile. This departure profile may be the same as the desired departure profile. The departure profile is compared with external criteria such as noise level limits at various locations. When the external criteria are met possibly as defined by the user the optimized departure profile is output as a final departure profile.

In some embodiments when external criteria are not met the system calculates an adjusted departure profile that is as close as possible to the desired departure profile. The adjusted departure profile is then compared to compliance criteria. When the adjusted departure profile is compliant its parameters are tested against the external criteria. When the external criteria are met the adjusted departure profile is output as the final departure profile otherwise the adjusted departure profile is again adjusted. When the adjusted departure profile is not compliant or if no adjustments are available or feasible the dispatcher is notified. The dispatcher can then adjust the current conditions until a compliant departure profile is achieved. In some embodiments the system may suggest adjustments to the current conditions e.g. a lower takeoff weight that will achieve a compliant departure profile.

Systems and methods in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure may be useable with any aircraft or fleet mix. An airport can use the system to determine noise emissions etc. generated for a fleet mix or determine fees e.g. landing fees if the airport makes a change such as adding a runway re designing its airspace or changing its limits.

The following examples describe selected aspects of exemplary systems and methods for generating compliant aircraft departure profiles. These examples are intended for illustration and should not be interpreted as limiting the entire scope of the present disclosure. Each example may include one or more distinct inventions and or contextual or related information function and or structure.

In this example flight profile generation system includes a flight performance data generator in communication with a compliance module . Flight performance data generator may include any suitable hardware and or software configured to generate three dimensional data describing a flight path and may be referred to as an airplane performance model or a flight performance model. This module may be provided by a manufacturer. For example aircraft manufacturers typically provide and distribute flight performance models to airline customers. For example the Boeing Climb Out Program BCOP includes a graphical user interface and is configured to analyze develop and validate terminal area flight procedures. A flight performance model such as BCOP may base its generated data on Standard Instrument Departures SID and engine out procedures.

Flight performance data generator collects input data regarding conditions also referred to as current conditions and or current condition inputs such as airport temperature elevation runway information initial aircraft takeoff weight departure track flap retraction schedules and the like. Additionally flight performance data generator may receive an input departure profile corresponding to a desired departure profile. Profile is evaluated along with conditions to calculate expected airplane states as a function of time and distance during the departure. In other words flight performance data generator produces multi dimensional data describing the expected state of the aircraft over time and or distance assuming profile is carried out in light of conditions . Accordingly flight performance data generator may be configured to calculate departure performance data for an aircraft based on the desired departure profile and the current condition inputs. In other words flight performance data generator may be configured to calculate departure performance data for an aircraft based on current condition inputs and a given departure profile. Said another way flight performance data generator may be configured to generate flight performance data describing a flight path of a selected aircraft following the desired flight profile under the current ambient conditions.

Flight performance models such as BCOP were designed primarily to assist airlines in determining airplane engine out performance during either departure or arrival operations. Here flight performance generator is used to generate outputs for a single departure of a specific aircraft using current or expected conditions. In some examples flight performance generator includes software capable of interfacing with other modules for example through an application programming interface API or software development kit SDK .

Compliance module also referred to as a comparison module may include any suitable device or software configured to receive the output data from flight performance data generator calculate one or more values based on the data and compare the one or more values to one or more criteria. In other words compliance module is configured to compare one or more external criteria to at least one value corresponding to calculated departure performance data and to provide a comparison output indicating a result of the comparison. Said another way compliance module is configured to determine a relationship between one or more external criteria and the performance data and to communicate the relationship e.g. provide an output corresponding to the relationship .

Accordingly compliance module receives criteria inputs interchangeably referred to as external criteria and or external criteria inputs. Criteria inputs may include regarding noise abatement limits and the geographic location of one or more noise monitoring stations. Compliance module calculates an expected noise emission from the aircraft as sensed at the noise monitoring station s . Decibel levels may be determined as a function of time based on the flight performance data on known aircraft noise performance and the path of the aircraft relative to the noise monitoring station s . Noise abatement limits may be stated with respect to peak noise levels and or with respect to cumulative noise levels over time. Accordingly noise levels may be simulated by compliance module at each noise monitoring station over a range of time such that both instantaneous and cumulative levels can be determined.

Aircraft are typically certified for operations by regulatory authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration FAA and the European Aviation Safety Administration EASA . One element of the certification process includes noise certification and the aircraft is required to meet the regulatory noise requirement. Among other things one of the deliverables from this noise certification is a table called the Noise Power Distance NPD map. The noise element in the NPD contains the generally accepted airport noise metric called peak dBA or L. Peak dBA for example relates to the loudest decibel level recorded during a flyover and is adjusted to how the human ear receives the sound.

The aircraft s distance from brake release altitude engine thrust and latitude longitude position output from the flight performance data generator are determined relative to the geographic position and elevation of the airport noise monitor s . The aircraft s engine thrust i.e. power and the distance from the aircraft to the noise monitor may be used in a table look up to retrieve the estimated noise level at the noise monitor from the NPD map.

Peak dBA or Laccounts for only the magnitude of a noise event. Therefore some airports use a Single Event Noise Exposure Level SENEL or Sound Energy Level SEL metric that accounts for both the magnitude and the duration of the noise event. In these cases multiple samples of NPD table look ups are performed to develop a time history of dBA levels that represent the flight over the noise monitor.

Compliance module performs a comparison between simulated emissions e.g. noise and the criteria at the selected locations thereby determining a relationship. In other words compliance module compares the expected environmental emission of the aircraft to an emission abatement limit to determine a relationship therebetween. For example the relationship may include an indication that the emissions violate the criteria. For example the relationship may include an indication that the emissions meet the criteria. For example the relationship may include an indication that the emissions meet the criteria by a certain margin such as when noise levels are indicated at 75 dBA a peak dBA noise limit is 80 dBA and the resulting margin is 5 dBA. In some examples emissions may be compared with multiple criteria at multiple monitoring locations and or at multiple times or ranges of times. In some examples criteria may change depending on time of day. In some examples criteria may change based on distance from the airport.

The relationship s between the emissions and the criteria are provided by compliance module such that a user may determine whether changes should be made to input profile . Changes may be necessary for example where one or more criteria are violated. Changes may be necessary or desired for example where the margin of compliance is greater than a selected margin. A minimum margin may be desired to ensure compliance while accounting for uncertainty of conditions operational factors such as transition time between throttle or flap settings and operator error. However in some examples a maximum margin may also be desired such that the aircraft is not experiencing an economic cost without the justification of complying with regulations.

In response to the relationship being communicated by compliance module a user may change one or more aspects of the input departure profile such that emission e.g. noise levels are brought into the desired relationship. For example if noise levels exceed a limit at a certain noise monitor changes may be made to the departure profile to reduce the noise that will be sensed at that noise monitor. For example this may include reducing thrust or delaying an increase in thrust and or increasing altitude in the vicinity of the monitor.

The changed input profile may then be reprocessed by the system determining whether the changed profile meets the criteria in a desired fashion. If the profile does meet the desired relationships an output module may output to the user a final output profile such as on a physical print out on a display screen in a data file and or the like or any combination of these. In an example situation where the original input file met all criteria in a desired manner no changes may be needed and input profile may be substantially identical to output profile . In other examples input profile may be changed one or more times and reprocessed or iterated such that output profile is substantially different from the original input profile .

Changing one or more aspects of input departure profile may be assisted in part or performed entirely by a recommendation module shown in in dashed lines to indicate its optional nature in this Example. Recommendation module may include any suitable hardware and or software configured to determine and or output one or more recommended changes that would bring input profile into or closer to the desired relationship with criteria e.g. based on the comparison output from compliance module . For example if simulated noise levels at a noise monitor are found to be in violation of a peak dBA limit recommendation module may determine that compliance is more likely if a throttle reduction is performed earlier in the departure profile. For example throttle reduction may be scheduled to happen when the aircraft reaches 1 000 feet in altitude. If that condition occurs after the aircraft passes over the monitoring station recommendation module may determine that throttle reduction should happen at a lower altitude e.g. 900 feet i.e. before reaching the noise monitor.

Recommendation module may include various instructions carried out by a data processing system see Example 5 below . These instructions may include a logical decision trees procedures optimization routines and or the like or any combination of these as described in further detail in Examples 3 and 4. Recommendation module may analyze the input profile in light of the relationship determined by compliance module and make one or more recommendations based on user preferences . User preferences may include information regarding which aspects of the flight profile can be modified what order to attempt modification how much each modifiable aspect should be changed in each iteration etc. Preferences may also be referred to as settings user settings or configuration settings.

Recommendations may be provided by the recommendation module in any suitable form. For example recommendation module may provide a complete modified input profile for analysis. In other examples module may provide only recommended changes to the input profile. In some examples the recommendation may be communicated directly to the flight performance data generator. In other examples the recommendation may be presented to the user simultaneously or sequentially with respect to further processing. In some examples the recommendation may be communicated exclusively to the user such as in an advisory mode for approval before further processing or as a recommended course of action for the user to pursue independently.

In some examples recommendation module may conclude that further modification is undesirable impossible or infeasible. This conclusion may be based on preferences . In these examples output profile may be provided from the recommendation module rather than passing again through the flight performance data generator and compliance module as indicated in .

This example describes an illustrative flight profile generation system which is an embodiment of system see .

Flight performance data generator FPDG is substantially similar to generator of Example 1. FPDG receives as inputs an input flight profile and current conditions . Input flight profile may include any suitable flight departure profile including instructions for the departure phase of a flight such as flap settings and throttle management instructions takeoff TO thrust TO flaps assumed temperature setting standard instrument departure and or the like or any combination of these. Current conditions may include conditions and configurations having to do with the specific aircraft airport and departure being analyzed. For example current conditions may include one or more of the following aircraft related conditions aircraft type engine model or type TO weight. For example current conditions may include one or more of the following ambient weather related conditions temperature wind speed wind direction runway condition. For example current conditions may include one or more of the following airport related conditions airport layout runway selected track selected.

Having received input flight profile and current conditions and based on these inputs FPDG then generates flight parameter data describing the aircraft departure. Data may include information regarding multiple dimensions of the aircraft s departure such as altitude speed thrust fuel consumption time and or distance from brake release. An illustrative subset of flight parameter data is shown in where aircraft altitude thrust and velocity are each shown on an x axis defined by distance from brake release. Another illustrative subset of flight parameter data for a different flight profile is shown in where aircraft altitude thrust and velocity are shown on an x axis defined by distance from brake release. As explained further below this information facilitates analysis with respect to known monitoring points along the departure track because the monitoring point will be at a known specific distance from brake release.

Flight parameter data is communicated to compliance module for analysis. Compliance module also receives inputs in the form of noise criteria . As described above noise criteria may include geographic locations and elevations of monitoring station s noise metrics noise level limits time of day based rubrics acceptable tolerance margin s established by an airline and or the like or any combination of these. Compliance module determines expected noise levels at each monitoring station e.g. using the NPD map as described above and compares the noise levels to the criteria. This comparison results in a relationship with respect to each monitoring station wherein the noise levels at that monitor are in violation or in compliance by some margin. If the noise levels are all in compliance by the acceptable tolerance margin established by the airline in question then input flight departure profile may be output as a final flight departure profile which may be communicated by notifying a dispatcher of the final profile.

If the noise levels do not have the desired relationship with the criteria two possibilities may result both of which may indicate modification of the flight departure profile is desirable. The first possibility is that one or more noise levels may be in violation of applicable noise limits. In these situations compliance module communicates the relationship as well as the profile information and data regarding the monitoring station s in question to recommendation module . Because a correction is required modification of the flight departure profile is handled by a correction module within recommendation module . Correction module includes any suitable hardware and or software configured to determine changes that can be made to the flight departure profile to bring it into compliance with the applicable limit s . One embodiment of correction module is described in further detail below see Example 3 .

Such changes will typically not be determined without additional guidance. Accordingly a set of preferences are provided to the recommendation module to indicate the user s priorities and preferred settings regarding flight departure profile modification. For example these preferences may reflect airline business plan and or economic priorities. For example a given airline user may prioritize one or more of maximum payload minimum noise fuel efficiency minimum time minimum climb to cruise and or the like or any combination of these. Likewise certain adjustments and customizations of the flight departure profile may be forbidden or may have selectable increments. For example a user may prefer that payload be changed in 0.5 increments. In some examples default settings may be established and the user may override or modify one or more such settings. Accordingly recommendation module and correction module are configured to align recommended changes with the user s priorities and choices.

The second possibility when noise levels and limits do not have the desired relationship is that the noise levels are excessively compliant. In other words more margin exists than is economically desirable between the actual noise levels and the applicable noise abatement limits. In this situation the user may wish to adjust the flight profile to take advantage of the margin available. Because this is an adjustment rather than a correction and because the preferences and logic involved may be different from that in correction module modification of the flight departure profile is handled by an adjustment module within the recommendation module.

Adjustment module includes any suitable hardware and or software configured to determine changes that can be made to the flight departure profile to maintain compliance while reducing the margin of compliance. One embodiment of adjustment module is described in detail below see Example 4 . In this regard preferences may include priorities regarding optimization of the flight departure profile and may include a binary setting that effectively turns the adjustment module on and off. For example some users may prefer not to adjust the profile once compliance is confirmed regardless of margin. In other examples this same effect may be substantially established by choosing a tolerance margin sufficiently large that no adjustment will ever be triggered.

Regardless of which sub module determines how the flight profile should be modified a modified version of input flight profile may be communicated to FPDG and the cycle will be repeated. This iteration loop may be repeated any number of times until the noise criteria and user preferences are satisfied until it is determined that a solution is not feasible or until a certain user defined number of iterations have transpired.

This example describes an illustrative correction module suitable for use in a flight profile generation system in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure see .

Module may include several logic pathways depending on factors such as the thrust management method being used in the flight profile and or which noise monitoring locations have limit violations. These pathways may be traversed in any logical order. As shown in a first decision point may include determining the thrust management method in step . Thrust management may be altitude based e.g. change thrust at a selected altitude or aircraft configuration based e.g. change thrust at a selected flap setting .

Assuming first that thrust management is altitude based module may proceed to a second decision point at step wherein the noise monitor is classified as either a close in e.g. near monitor or a distant monitor. Generally a close in monitor refers to monitors that are closer to the airport falling within the initial takeoff zone and the initial thrust reduction area. A distant monitor falls farther from the airport than the close in monitors generally in the area around a thrust restoration and climb phase of departure. An illustrative position of a close in monitor is indicated on for example at dashed line C. Likewise an illustrative position of a distant monitor is indicated on at dashed line D.

Assuming first that the monitor in question is a close in monitor module carries out a series of possible changes to the flight departure profile in an attempt to reduce close in noise. First at step thrust reduction altitude is changed. Referring back to the example of the departure profile indicates that thrust is reduced when altitude reaches 1 200 feet. This corresponds to approximately 18 000 feet from brake release. In this example a noise monitor is at approximately 17 500 feet as indicated by dashed line C . Accordingly thrust reduction occurs after the aircraft passes the monitoring station. In step module would therefore suggest a change to reduce the thrust reduction altitude for example to 1 000 feet. This action would cause thrust reduction to occur prior to the monitoring station thereby reducing noise sensed there. After making this recommendation control will return to the overall system and the modified flight profile will be reevaluated by the FPDG and compliance modules. If still in violation module will again be called and step will be reached. At this point the program may suggest a further change in thrust reduction altitude or may determine that no further changes are feasible and or desired.

Each of the steps described in this Example may be performed in a similar manner such that the step is evaluated an action is taken if feasible and the modification is re checked. If control returns to that step the action is taken again if feasible until compliance is reached a selected number of iterations is performed or repetition of the action is determined to be infeasible or inadvisable. At that point the module proceeds to the next numbered step.

Assuming step did not resolve the noncompliance module will check whether the flight departure profile prescribes a full power takeoff. For example engines are sometimes provided with an assumed temperature setting or derated to reduce engine wear. In both cases this results in a lower than maximum power level. If the engines are found to have one of these conditions step will recommend a full power takeoff to cause the aircraft to reach a higher altitude earlier thereby causing the aircraft to reach the thrust reduction altitude sooner. This will cause the thrust level to drop before the aircraft reaches position C thereby lowering the noise level.

Assuming step and any iterations thereof is either non applicable or failed to resolve the noncompliance module will determine whether the flight departure profile prescribes maximum takeoff flaps. If not step will recommend changing to maximum takeoff flaps because this configuration causes a steeper ascent again causing the aircraft to reach thrust reduction altitude sooner and reducing the noise level at close in monitors.

Assuming step and any iterations thereof is either non applicable or failed to resolve the noncompliance module will proceed to step and recommend a reduction in maximum takeoff weight MTOW also referred to as payload. Reduction of weight will result in a steeper takeoff at the same thrust level so that the aircraft again will reach thrust reduction altitude sooner. Depending on the user settings and airline policies a certain percentage of payload may be reduced at each iteration. Likewise a certain maximum amount of acceptable payload reduction also referred to as offload may be established. Accordingly step may iterate at a certain percentage such as 0.5 per iteration and may stop when payload reaches a selected minimum level or maximum reduction amount. Additionally so as not to overshoot the best payload level for compliance step may be repeated a final time with a small increase in payload e.g. 0.25 to establish that the proper level has been determined and recommended.

If step and any applicable iterations are not successful other aspects may be adjusted. In this example however it is assumed that no further aspects of the flight profile are available to affect noise levels at close in monitors. Accordingly if the profile is still in violation module will report that no feasible solution is possible. This information may allow the user to reevaluate settings and preferences to allow a solution. An indication of no solution will be similarly communicated at the termination of each series of steps described below.

Returning to step if the monitor in question is a distant monitor then step will be performed. In step thrust restoration altitude is adjusted. Typically following a period of lower thrust a climb phase is entered by restoring thrust also known as climb power see . For reasons similar to those regarding thrust reduction altitude it may be desirable to raise the altitude at which thrust is restored and climb power is applied. This is because the additional thrust with accompanying noise would then be delayed until after the aircraft reaches the noise monitor see line D of . In the example shown in thrust is restored at an altitude of 2 500 feet. This results in an increase in thrust and noise at approximately 20 000 feet from brake release before reaching the monitoring station at D approximately 23 000 feet from brake release . Accordingly it would be advisable to restore thrust later i.e. at a higher altitude.

Assuming step and any iterations thereof is either infeasible or failed to resolve the noncompliance module will proceed to step . In step module will determine whether climb is derated. If not module will recommend derating climb power to cause the aircraft to reach thrust restoration altitude farther from brake release.

Assuming step and any iterations thereof is either non applicable or failed to resolve the noncompliance module will proceed to step . In step a reduction in MTOW will be recommended. This step is substantially similar to step described above. Reduction in MTOW would result in gaining altitude more quickly. Although this may cause the aircraft to reach thrust restoration altitude earlier i.e. before the distant monitor the aircraft may be significantly higher in altitude by the time the monitor is reached thus reducing noise by way of vertical distance.

Returning to step if it is determined that thrust management is configuration based module will proceed to step and categorize the monitor as in step . Assuming the monitor is a close in monitor execution will pass to step . In step module will attempt to reposition the acceleration altitude thereby causing the aircraft to bring the nose down reduce the throttle and begin accelerating earlier. This in turn reduces noise at the monitor.

Assuming step and any iterations thereof is either infeasible or failed to resolve the noncompliance module will proceed to step . In step module will recommend a full power takeoff if not already prescribed. This step is substantially similar to step above with similar effects.

Assuming step was unsuccessful step includes trying reduced takeoff flap settings if available. Reducing takeoff flaps results in reaching thrust reduction flap settings sooner. This is because of the shorter time required to retract flaps which can result in reduced engine thrust and corresponding noise before reaching the monitor.

Assuming step was unsuccessful or unavailable step includes recommending a derated climb setting if available. Using a derated climb setting reduces the thrust applied. Accordingly noise associated with the thrust is lessened.

Assuming step was unsuccessful or unavailable step includes reducing MTOW which allows the aircraft to reach a higher altitude sooner and is substantially similar to steps and .

Returning to step if the monitor in question is a distant monitor module will proceed to step . In step module will recommend changing acceleration altitude. This step is similar to step but the recommendation will be in an opposite direction. Rather than accelerating earlier step will recommend accelerating later i.e. at a higher altitude. This will cause the aircraft to reach a higher initial climb altitude which in turn will cause the aircraft to be at a higher altitude and or farther downrange when thrust is restored thereby reducing noise at the monitor.

Assuming step and any iterations thereof is unsuccessful or infeasible step includes recommending a full power takeoff if not already prescribed. Again this will cause the aircraft to reach a higher altitude before reducing power therefore causing it to be at a higher altitude when thrust is restored.

Assuming step is unsuccessful or infeasible step includes recommending a reduction in MTOW. This step is substantially similar to steps and .

Each of the steps described above may result in changes to the flight departure profile. In some examples these changes may be cumulative. In some examples one or more changes may be undone prior to applying others.

This example describes an illustrative adjustment module suitable for use in a flight profile generation system in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure see .

At step module checks whether the user has enabled the adjustment module. If not execution returns to the overall system and optimization of margin is not performed. In general optimization of the margin includes increasing noise levels at a close in or distant monitor depending on where excessive compliance exists. Increasing noise levels may be accomplished by one or more of the following steps among others.

At step settings and or preferences having to do with the airline user s economic priorities are checked to determine which aspects of the flight departure profile should be adjusted to take advantage of the margin and in which order. The following steps are described in a certain order but certain steps may be performed in a different order or not at all depending on user preferences.

In step module determines whether maximizing payload is a goal. If so step includes raising the MTOW. This operation is similar to MTOW reductions described in Example 3 but adding weight rather than removing it. Similar iterations may be performed until a desired margin is reached. Alternatively other modifications may be made in tandem with MTOW increase.

At step module determines whether reducing close in noise is a goal. This may be the case for example if margin exists with respect to a distant monitor. If so step includes reducing the thrust reduction altitude to drop the noise level at the close in monitor s . This change may increase noise at distant monitors because the aircraft will be lower when it reaches the distant monitors.

At step module determines whether reducing engine wear should be a goal. If so step includes recommending a derated takeoff or assumed temperature setting. Both of these results in lower engine power therefore resulting in a slower climb to thrust reduction altitude. Accordingly thrust reduction will occur farther downrange resulting in a higher noise level at close in monitors.

At step module determines whether reducing time should be a goal. If so step includes recommending raising the thrust reduction altitude and lowering the thrust restoration altitude. These actions will result in the aircraft reaching cruise altitude in the shortest possible time as the aircraft will be in a higher thrust faster climb state for a greater portion of the departure e.g. remaining in the initial takeoff phase longer and starting the final climb phase earlier . In other words the aircraft will spend less time in the acceleration phase during which elevation gain is reduced. Accordingly final elevation will be reached more quickly.

At step module determines whether reducing distant noise should be a goal. For example margin may exist at close in monitors. If so step includes raising the thrust reduction altitude and also raising the thrust restoration altitude. These actions will result in an increase in noise at close in monitor s but will also cause the aircraft to gain a higher elevation before the shallower ascent of the acceleration phase. In addition to the higher altitude thrust restoration is also delayed until farther downrange presumably beyond the distant monitor s .

This example describes a data processing system in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure. In this example data processing system is an illustrative data processing system suitable for implementing flight profile generator systems and methods as described in the examples above See .

In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications framework . Communications framework provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display . Memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display are examples of resources accessible by processor unit via communications framework .

Processor unit serves to run instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit may be a number of processors a multi processor core or some other type of processor depending on the particular implementation. Further processor unit may be implemented using a number of heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices . A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information such as for example without limitation data program code in functional form and other suitable information either on a temporary basis or a permanent basis.

Storage devices also may be referred to as computer readable storage devices in these examples. Memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation.

For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.

Input output I O unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output I O unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard a mouse and or some other suitable input device. Further input output I O unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for the operating system applications and or programs may be located in storage devices which are in communication with processor unit through communications framework . In these illustrative examples the instructions are in a functional form on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory .

These instructions are referred to as program instructions program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or computer readable storage media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be computer readable storage media or computer readable signal media .

Computer readable storage media may include for example an optical or magnetic disk that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage . Computer readable storage media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive a thumb drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . In some instances computer readable storage media may not be removable from data processing system .

In these examples computer readable storage media is a physical or tangible storage device used to store program code rather than a medium that propagates or transmits program code . Computer readable storage media is also referred to as a computer readable tangible storage device or a computer readable physical storage device. In other words computer readable storage media is a media that can be touched by a person.

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system using computer readable signal media . Computer readable signal media may be for example a propagated data signal containing program code . For example computer readable signal media may be an electromagnetic signal an optical signal and or any other suitable type of signal. These signals may be transmitted over communications links such as wireless communications links optical fiber cable coaxial cable a wire and or any other suitable type of communications link. In other words the communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples.

In some illustrative embodiments program code may be downloaded over a network to persistent storage from another device or data processing system through computer readable signal media for use within data processing system . For instance program code stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system may be downloaded over a network from the server to data processing system . The data processing system providing program code may be a server computer a client computer or some other device capable of storing and transmitting program code .

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to and or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown. The different embodiments may be implemented using any hardware device or system capable of running program code. As one example data processing system may include organic components integrated with inorganic components and or may be comprised entirely of organic components excluding a human being. For example a storage device may be comprised of an organic semiconductor.

In another illustrative example processor unit may take the form of a hardware unit that has circuits that are manufactured or configured for a particular use. This type of hardware may perform operations without needing program code to be loaded into a memory from a storage device to be configured to perform the operations.

For example when processor unit takes the form of a hardware unit processor unit may be a circuit system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device or some other suitable type of hardware configured to perform a number of operations. With a programmable logic device the device is configured to perform the number of operations. The device may be reconfigured at a later time or may be permanently configured to perform the number of operations. Examples of programmable logic devices include for example a programmable logic array a programmable array logic a field programmable logic array a field programmable gate array and other suitable hardware devices. With this type of implementation program code may be omitted because the processes for the different embodiments are implemented in a hardware unit.

In still another illustrative example processor unit may be implemented using a combination of processors found in computers and hardware units. Processor unit may have a number of hardware units and a number of processors that are configured to run program code . With this depicted example some of the processes may be implemented in the number of hardware units while other processes may be implemented in the number of processors.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement communications framework and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system.

Additionally communications unit may include a number of devices that transmit data receive data or both transmit and receive data. Communications unit may be for example a modem or a network adapter two network adapters or some combination thereof. Further a memory may be for example memory or a cache such as that found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications framework .

The flowcharts and block diagrams described herein illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various illustrative embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function or functions. It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in a block may occur out of the order noted in the drawings. For example the functions of two blocks shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the functions of the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

This section describes additional aspects and features of departure profile generation systems and methods presented without limitation as a series of numbered paragraphs. Each of these paragraphs can be combined with one or more other paragraphs and or with disclosure from elsewhere in this application including the materials incorporated by reference in the Cross References in any suitable manner. Some of the paragraphs below expressly refer to and further limit other paragraphs providing without limitation examples of some of the suitable combinations.

A0. A system comprising a flight performance data generator configured to receive current condition inputs and a desired departure profile the flight performance data generator further configured to calculate departure performance data for an aircraft based on the desired departure profile and the current condition inputs and a comparison module configured to receive one or more external criteria to compare the one or more external criteria to at least one value corresponding to the calculated departure performance data and to provide a comparison output indicating a result of the comparison.

A1. The system of A0 further comprising a recommendation module configured to output one or more recommended changes to the desired departure profile based on the comparison output.

A2. The system of A0 further comprising an output module configured to respond to the comparison output by outputting a recommended departure profile meeting the one or more external criteria.

A3. The system of A0 wherein the current condition inputs include one or more inputs corresponding to current weather conditions at a selected airport.

A4. The system of A0 wherein the current condition inputs include one or more inputs corresponding to a configuration of the aircraft.

A5. The system of A0 wherein the external criteria include one or more criteria corresponding to noise limits at noise monitoring locations.

B0. A computer system for generating a departure profile for an aircraft the computer system comprising a processor a one or more storage devices and a departure profile generating program including a plurality of instructions stored in the one or more storage devices that are executed by the processor to receive current condition inputs and a first departure profile calculate first departure performance data for an aircraft based on the current condition inputs and the first departure profile determine a first relationship between one or more external criteria and the first departure performance data and provide an output corresponding to the first relationship.

B2. The system of B1 the plurality of instructions being further executed by the processor to in response to the first relationship being substantially different than a desired relationship modify the first departure profile to create a second departure profile having second departure performance data that meets the desired relationship.

B3. The system of B2 the processor further executing instructions to output the second departure profile.

B4. The system of B1 wherein determining the first relationship includes calculating a value corresponding to the data and comparing the value to the one or more criteria.

B5. The system of B4 wherein the desired relationship includes the value meeting the one or more criteria.

B6. The system of B5 wherein the desired relationship includes the value meeting the one or more criteria by no more than a selected margin.

C0. A method for generating a flight departure profile that is compliant with an emission limit at a monitoring location the method including receiving a desired flight departure profile and one or more current ambient conditions generating flight performance data describing a flight path of a selected aircraft following the desired flight departure profile under the current ambient conditions determining an expected environmental emission of the aircraft as sensed at a selected monitoring location comparing the expected environmental emission of the aircraft to an emission abatement limit to determine a relationship therebetween and communicating the relationship.

C1. The method of C0 wherein communicating the relationship includes communicating the relationship to a user.

C2. The method of C0 wherein the emission is noise and the emission abatement limit is a noise abatement limit.

C3. The method of C0 further including modifying the desired flight departure profile in response to the relationship between the expected environmental emission and the emission abatement limit.

C4. The method of C3 wherein modifying the desired flight departure profile includes selecting one or more modifiable aspects of the profile based on user preferences.

C5. The method of C3 wherein modifying the desired flight departure profile includes modifying the flight departure profile in response to the environmental emission being in compliance with the emission abatement limit by more than a selected margin.

C6. The method of C0 wherein the generating determining comparing and communicating steps are performed for a specific aircraft departure using current ambient conditions including a current wind condition and a current temperature.

D0. The system or method of any other paragraph wherein the current ambient conditions include a selected runway at a selected airport.

E0. The system or method of any other paragraph wherein the current condition inputs include one or more of an aircraft model a takeoff weight an engine type an engine thrust rating a flap setting a weather condition a runway information and a departure track.

F0. The system of method of any other paragraph wherein external criteria include a monitoring location and or noise level limits.

G0. The system or method of any other paragraph wherein generated departure parameters include a desired departure profile aircraft altitude s aircraft speed s engine thrust fuel usage and or time after beginning departure.

H0. The system or method of any other paragraph wherein the compliance unit compares a noise level in calculated departure parameters with a noise level restriction of a selected airport.

J0. The system of any other paragraph further comprising a departure profile unit configured to calculate an adjusted departure profile if the noise associated with the calculated departure parameters does not meet the external noise criteria.

J1. The system of J0 wherein the departure profile unit is configured to calculate an engine thrust reduction location a climb power setting a fuel efficiency and or a time from the beginning of departure.

J2. The system of J0 further comprising a compliance unit configured to compare the adjusted departure profile to a compliance criteria wherein the adjusted departure profile is output as the final departure profile when the adjusted departure profile meets the compliance criteria and the external noise criteria.

J3. The system of J0 further comprising a solution device configured to provide possible adjustments to the current conditions that will result in an adjusted departure profile that meets the compliance criteria.

K0. A system that uses current conditions to generate a departure profile that is or is close to a desired departure profile without violating airport criteria.

The disclosure set forth above may encompass multiple distinct inventions with independent utility. Although each of these inventions has been disclosed in its preferred form s the specific embodiments thereof as disclosed and illustrated herein are not to be considered in a limiting sense because numerous variations are possible. The subject matter of the inventions includes all novel and nonobvious combinations and subcombinations of the various elements features functions and or properties disclosed herein. The following claims particularly point out certain combinations and subcombinations regarded as novel and nonobvious. Inventions embodied in other combinations and subcombinations of features functions elements and or properties may be claimed in applications claiming priority from this or a related application. Such claims whether directed to a different invention or to the same invention and whether broader narrower equal or different in scope to the original claims also are regarded as included within the subject matter of the inventions of the present disclosure.

