---

title: 3D target array for pulsed multi-sourced radiography
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to the generation of x-rays and other charged particles. A plurality of disparate source materials can be combined on an array to facilitate fabrication of co-located mixed tips (point sources) which can be utilized to form a polychromatic cloud, e.g., a plurality of x-rays having a range of energies and or wavelengths, etc. The tips can be formed such that the x-rays are emitted in a direction different to other charged particles to facilitate clean x-ray sourcing. Particles, such as protons, can be directionally emitted to facilitate generation of neutrons at a secondary target. The various particles can be generated by interaction of a laser irradiating the array of tips. The tips can be incorporated into a plurality of 3D conical targets, the conical target sidewall(s) can be utilized to microfocus a portion of a laser beam onto the tip material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269524&OS=09269524&RS=09269524
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09269524
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140114
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Advances in laser technologies have enabled construction of laser sources which can be utilized in high energy physics applications. A laser beam can irradiate a target to facilitate generation of x rays and other particles such as electrons protons photons neutrons etc. where such particle emissions can be utilized in applications such as radiography airport security crystallography astronomy spectroscopy etc. While x rays can identify high atomic number high Z materials such as stainless steel neutrons can be utilized to identify low Z material such as polystyrene foams wood water. It can be beneficial to have a mixed source of x rays and other particles which when irradiated by a laser beam can facilitate identification of both high Z and low Z materials.

While neutrons can be produced by a laser target approach neutrons can also be produced by Dense Plasma Focus machine DPF . DPF typically produce neutrons of 2.45 MeV when using deuterium deuterium or 14.1 MeV when using deuterium tritium . The maximum neutron energy is thus limited to 14 MeV. The neutron emission is typically isotropic and requires use of tritium which is radioactive and difficult to obtain and store. A conventional laser target approach can generate neutrons having energies 15 MeV can be energy tunable in a more continuous way. It can also allow for a broader energy spectrum of the neutrons produced and thus allows for applications such as resonance radiography. However the laser can be costly owing to the requirement to operate with a beam intensity exceeding 1 10W cm.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to forming x rays and other particles such as protons electrons neutrons photons etc. In an exemplary embodiment a system is presented wherein the system comprises a first target whereby the first target comprises a first tip material which forms a conical solid comprising an apex a circular base and a lateral surface joining the apex to a perimeter of the base. In a further embodiment at least one photon in a laser beam can impinge upon the base and enter the first tip material to facilitate formation of at least one of a first x ray photon or a first particle wherein the first x ray photon can be emitted from the apex in a direction on axis to an axis which passes through the apex and about which the base has rotational symmetry.

Another exemplary embodiment is presented comprising a method for generating x rays and other particles wherein the method comprises directing a first photon onto a first target the first target comprising a first tip material forming a conical solid comprising an apex a circular base and a lateral surface joining the apex to a perimeter of the base wherein the first photon can impinge upon the base and enter the first tip material to facilitate forming a first x ray photon. In a further embodiment the first x ray photon can be emitted from the apex in a direction on axis to an axis which passes through the apex and about which the base has rotational symmetry.

A further exemplary embodiment for generating x rays and other particles can utilize an array comprising a first target the first target comprising a first tip material where the first tip material forms a conical solid having an apex a circular base and a lateral surface joining the apex to a perimeter of the base. A first photon in a laser beam can impinge upon the base and enter the first tip material to facilitate formation of a first x ray photon the first x ray photon can be emitted from the apex in a direction on axis to an axis which passes through the apex and about which the base has rotational symmetry. In a further embodiment the array can also include a second target whereby the second target can comprise a second tip material the second tip material forms a conical solid having an apex a circular base and a lateral surface joining the apex to a perimeter of the base. A second photon in the laser beam can impinge upon the base and enter the second tip material to facilitate formation of a second x ray photon. In an embodiment the second x ray photon can be emitted from the apex in a direction on axis to an axis which passes through the apex and about which the base has rotational symmetry. In another embodiment the first x ray photon can have a wavelength different to a wavelength of the second x ray photon and further the emission direction of the first x ray photon can be about parallel to the emission direction of the second x ray photon

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies relating to generation of x rays and other particles are presented wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

The various embodiments presented herein relate to the generation of x rays and other charged particles such as protons photons electrons neutrons etc. In an embodiment a point like polychromatic x ray source s is presented whereby the x rays can be separated from other emitted particles. A plurality of disparate source materials e.g. x ray source materials can be combined on the same array or patch to facilitate fabrication of co located mixed point like sources e.g. tips which can be utilized to form a polychromatic particle cloud e.g. a plurality of x rays having a range of energies and or wavelengths etc. Another embodiment relates to a source for the generation of particles such as protons which can be directional and further utilized to facilitate generation of neutrons at a secondary target. The various sources e.g. x ray photon proton neutron etc. can be generated by interaction of a laser beam or other driver device with an array comprising a plurality of three dimensional 3D conical targets and tips whereby the conical target sidewall can be utilized to microfocus a portion of a laser beam onto the tip material. As described herein conical relates to a cone having a sidewall e.g. straight parabolic etc. which can converge at a tip where in an embodiment an array can be formed comprising of a several adjacent conical shapes that can be irradiated e.g. simultaneously consecutively etc. by a laser beam or a portion of the laser beam.

As shown in respective photons and in laser beam are incident upon the surface of respective conical structures e.g. inner surface of sidewall and inner surface of wall whereby in the example presented photon is directed towards tip and photon is directed towards tip . Effectively photon is microfocused on to the tip by the first truncated cone structure formed by sidewall and similarly photon is microfocused on to the tip by the second truncated cone structure formed by sidewall . As also shown in photon in laser beam is directed along an on axis direction or near on axis direction and hence will impinge directly upon the basal surface B of the tip without having to be directed to the tip by inner surface of sidewall .

Microfocusing is a technique which can be utilized to increase the volume of energy incident upon a given area e.g. the basal surface B of tip based upon directing energy e.g. photons captured over a larger area aperture area C of the base of the truncated cone comprised of the sidewall and inner surface or wall per . It is to be appreciated that while only photons and are shown as being microfocused onto respective tips and a plurality of photons can be focused onto the respective tips as part of the microfocusing operation. In an embodiment microfocusing can concentrate energy in laser beam onto tip where the energy concentration in an embodiment can be at least 1 10watts square centimeter W cm which can be a concentration of energy required to facilitate generation of any of x rays and or other particles e.g. electrons protons photons etc. at a target material tip when impinged by energy e.g. photonic energy in a laser beam e.g. in a laser beam .

In an embodiment the conical structures comprising array can be of any suitable dimension for example aperture C can be of any value such as from about 100 m to about 1 mm diameter while the exposed region of a tip e.g. tip basal surface B can be in the range of about 5 m to about 20 m in diameter. To facilitate microfocusing of a laser beam the angle also known as a cone angle between opposite surfaces of a conical structure formed with a sidewall can be about 10 to about 40 . Further while the various embodiments presented herein relate to microfocusing of a laser beam based in part on reflection of photons in the laser beam on an inner surface of a sidewall the thickness of the sidewall material may not be of critical importance to the various embodiments presented herein. However to facilitate fabrication of at least one conical structure in an array the sidewall can have a thickness of about 10 m to about 50 m. Furthermore surface can have a surface finish that does not interfere with propagation of photons e.g. photon towards the tip . Thus in an embodiment sidewall can have a polished surface or of a roughness less than a roughness that would cause interruption of the conveyance e.g. a backward reflection of the photons. Any suitable material can be utilized to form sidewall where such materials include in a non exhaustive list aluminum Al copper Cu gold Au titanium Ti tantalum Ta tungsten W etc. where such materials can be in the form of a single layer or a sidewall material can be formed from a plurality of layers comprised of two or more exemplary materials.

In an embodiment photons in the laser beam can have a trajectory that is parallel e.g. to the on axis direction or slightly converging in nature as required to facilitate microfocusing of the photons e.g. photons and or in the laser beam on the respective tips and based upon direct incidence of a photon e.g. or guiding a photon e.g. photon or to a tip based on reflection of the photon s on an inner surface of a sidewall e.g. surfaces and of respective sidewalls and . Hence rather than focusing a laser beam on the target material e.g. tip and or utilizing a collimated laser beam in conjunction with the conical targets enables the microfocusing operation to be achieved. In an embodiment photons in a collimated laser beam can facilitate a symmetrical irradiation of the sidewall surface s and accordingly a symmetrical microfocused irradiation of the tip s .

To facilitate a high rate of photon irradiation on the tips and the source of laser beam can have a high repetition rate e.g. a minimum of 10 Hz where in a further embodiment laser beam can be an ultrashort laser pulse e.g. as available with chirped pulse amplification . The high repetition rate can also enable an array with a large number e.g. about 100 of conical target structures comprising respective sidewalls and tips to be irradiated by the laser beam or a series of arrays such as described herein with reference to or combined on a larger structure. Owing to an expectation that each array can be vaporized when irradiated with the laser for an extended duration the next array is positioned on the axis of laser to facilitate a high repetition rate. Further the various embodiments presented herein can be conducted under vacuum to negate interaction of air molecules with any of the laser beam any emitted x rays e.g. x rays and any emitted particles e.g. particles particles E Eand Eas presented in herein and or any emitted neutrons e.g. neutrons as presented in herein which could cause a reduction in the efficiency of the various systems presented herein.

In an embodiment to facilitate the formation of a plurality of sources which can be utilized to generate a range of x rays having a range of energies e.g. in the range of 100 eV to 100 keV wavelengths e.g. in a range of 0.01 to 10 nm frequencies 30 PHz to 30 EHz 3 10Hz to 3 10Hz etc. to form a polychromatic x ray cloud disparate materials can be utilized to form the respective tips in an array . It is to be appreciated that while the foregoing relates to formation of x rays the embodiments can be equally applied to any other charged particle s e.g. protons photons electrons neutrons etc. Any material that facilitates the formation of x rays or other particles e.g. electrons protons photons etc. can be utilized as a material for tips or where such materials can include in a non exhaustive list Al Au Cu Ti W silver Ag molybdenum Mo rhodium Rh argon Ar krypton Kr or an alloy comprising any of the previous listing etc. By utilizing a plurality of tip materials incorporated into an array of targets a plurality of x rays e.g. a polychromatic x ray cloud can be generated having a plurality of energies and wavelengths associated with any of the respective K K K K L L Mand or Memission spectra for each tip material. As illustrated in and in and tip can be formed with a material different to a material utilized to form tip . For example a first tip tip can be formed from a first material e.g. Cu generating first x rays with an energy of about x KeV while a second tip tip can be formed from a different material e.g. Ag generating second x rays with an energy of about y KeV.

The technology pertaining to generation of x rays and other particles based upon a laser beam impinging upon a target material is known to those skilled in the art and is not expanded upon here. However in summary as photons e.g. photons and in laser beam impinge upon a target e.g. tips and electrons in the target material are driven towards the tip apex A per . Motion of the electrons to the tip point A causes the material in respective tips and to become ionized owing to molecular bonding dissociation whereby a plasma can be formed at the tip point s A. As an electron is re absorbed into an ionized atom in respective tip materials and the energy imparted on the electron by the photon e.g. either of photons or as a function of the ionization operation can be released in the form of x ray radiation e.g. x ray photons and or or formation of other particles . Hence in an embodiment the different energy gaps for respective materials e.g. Al vs. Cu vs. Au etc. engenders formation of x rays having according energies to facilitate formation of a polychromatic x ray cloud. As indicated in x ray photon is shaded with a color different to that of x ray photon to indicate that the x ray photons and are of different wavelengths and or energies.

In another embodiment the shape of the tip can be a factor in the facilitation of a clean x ray source. Based upon at least one emission characteristic between x rays e.g. x rays and and other particles e.g. particles formed at a tip tips and can be formed to facilitate separation of the x ray spectra and from a cloud of other particles formed at the tip s . As shown in where a tip is formed with an acute angle per e.g. up to about 40 advantage can be taken of a phenomenon whereby particles e.g. electrons protons photons etc. formed at the tip s and or are ejected from the tip at a direction perpendicular to the surface L of the tip. Such an operation results in the on axis emission relative to the cone structure of the x ray photons and being effectively free of other particles e.g. non x ray particles. The difference in directionality between the emission of particles perpendicular to surface L and the emission of x rays and in an on axis direction enables the separation of the x rays and in the on axis direction with respect to the particles thereby enabling operation of an array to provide a clean x ray source. As shown in the emission direction of x ray can be parallel to the emission direction of x ray .

Turning to while illustrate embodiments having straight sidewalls and the various embodiments presented herein can also be utilized with a conical structure having a curved sectional profile. As shown in a conical target can have a sidewall forming a truncated cone which is parabolic in accordance with an embodiment. Conical target can include a tip in the prolongation of the conical shape or one that has the same form as that presented in to facilitate generation of x rays and other particles as previously described as a result of a photon e.g. in laser beam being directed e.g. by impinging on the sidewall inner surface towards tip as microfocusing occurs.

Relative to tip target can be of any required size and further positioned at any distance D from the tip to facilitate interception of the protons being emitted from tip . In an embodiment target can be a disc located on a support structure e.g. a wireframe which can be positionally adjusted along D. In another embodiment target can be a dot target supported by and or embedded in a surrounding material of a different composition where the surrounding material structure can be positionally adjusted along D. Any suitable material can be utilized to form the secondary target s where in a non exhaustive list such materials include lithium Li beryllium Be deuterium D deuterated plastic CDwith x and y between 1 and 8 etc.

It is to be appreciated that any protons of any energy can be captured by target based upon the size and position of the target relative to the tip . Hence based upon the combination of photon s impinging upon tip the emission of protons E E and E and the interaction of the protons E E and Ewith material forming target system can be utilized as a source for neutrons . In comparison with a dense plasma focus source operating with deuterium fusion D D having a neutron yield of about 6 10neutrons steradian sr in the forward direction of a 40 nanosecond pulse a system based on laser produced neutrons as shown in can obtain a yield of about 8 10neutrons sr for a 10 picosecond pulse in the forward direction with a repetition rate of about 10 Hz or more.

Any suitable material can be utilized to form the secondary target s where in a non exhaustive list such materials include lithium Li beryllium Be deuterium D deuterated plastic CDwith x and y between 1 and 8 etc.

As shown in and a number of arrangements of the conical target structures can be configured according to an embodiment. As previously mentioned an array can comprise of several adjacently placed conical targets which can be irradiated simultaneously or in a consecutive manner where each target can be irradiated by a portion of the laser beam and each target can microfocus the portion of the beam captured by the target aperture. For example a circular arrangement can be produced as shown in where a plurality of conical structures having sidewalls and tips and of differing materials to facilitate formation of a cloud of polychromatic x rays and other particles can be located on a common support . Another arrangement is a linear arrangement as shown in where a plurality of conical structures having sidewalls and tips and of differing materials to facilitate formation of a cloud of polychromatic x rays and other particles can be located on a support e.g. for utilization in a line focus application. A further arrangement is a rectangular arrangement as shown in where a plurality of conical structures having sidewalls and tips and of differing materials to facilitate formation of a cloud of polychromatic x rays and other particles can be located on a support . It is to be appreciated that the structures presented in and are examples of possible array formations and any arrangement can be constructed to include any number of conical structures and or any distribution of materials to be utilized as tips for the conical structures where the conical structures can be of any arrangement and not limited to the examples of circular linear or rectangular. It is to be appreciated that while illustrates an array of conical structures comprising a plurality of tip materials and the various embodiments are not so limited and a common material can be utilized for all of the respective conical structures in an array. Further any suitable fabrication technique can be utilized in the formation of any of the tip s the conical target structure s the support s the secondary neutron forming target s etc. where such fabrication techniques can include and or directed at a microfabrication a microelectromechanical system and the like as known to a person having skill in the art.

The number of targets e.g. each conical structure formed with a sidewall and a tip which can be irradiated to form the desired x rays and or particles can be a function of the available energy in a source laser beam. For example if a source laser e.g. laser beam has an available energy of about 1 joule 1 J then the target array may be formed with a couple of conical structures. Whereas if the source laser has an available energy of 100 J then the target may be formed for example with more than twenty conical structures. In an embodiment the number of targets can be a function of the energy available in a laser beam or portion thereof and or the diameter of the laser beam and the ability to achieve the minimum energy of about 1 10W cmat each respective tip in the number of targets where the energy at the tip can be maximized as a function of a microfocusing operation as previously described.

At based upon the particles of interest a determination can be made regarding which materials are to be utilized as target materials. For example if a polychromatic x ray cloud is to be formed which materials when impinged by a laser beam will produce x rays having the required energies where such a selection can be made from materials including Al Au Cu Ti W Ag Mo Rh Ar Kr etc.

At a determination can be made regarding the number of targets to be combined to form an array for example based upon such factors as the energy frequency beam diameter etc. of a laser source and the requirement to achieve the minimum energy of about 1 10W cmat each respective tip. Accordingly the number of targets to be utilized can be determined where each target can be irradiated by the laser beam or a portion thereof.

At the shape of the array can be determined. For example as previously mentioned an array can comprise of several adjacently placed conical targets which can be irradiated simultaneously or in a consecutive manner where each target can be irradiated by a portion of the laser beam and each target can microfocus the portion of the beam captured by the target aperture. Different arrangements are available such as a circular arrangement a linear arrangement a rectangular or square arrangement etc. as illustrated in and .

At the shape of each conical structure can be determined. For example the profile of the sidewall of the conical structure s can be identified such as flat or curved e.g. parabolic to facilitate microfocusing of the laser beam or portion thereof. Also based upon whether a particular particle s type is to be separated from another particle s type the angle e.g. angle of each tip can be identified. For example if a clean source of x rays is to be provided then a tip s can be formed with a narrow angle e.g. 40 such that when the protons are emitted perpendicularly to the lateral surface of the tip angle is such that the protons are emitted in a beam of low divergence from the on axis direction.

At an array comprising a plurality of conical structures can be formed where each conical structure can include a sidewall forming a truncated cone and a tip material.

At the array can be irradiated by the laser beam. As previously described photons in the laser beam can facilitate formation of any of x rays electrons photons protons etc. In an embodiment for the production of x rays microfocusing of the laser beam or portion thereof can facilitate a minimum energy intensity of about 1 10W cmat each respective tip with generation of x rays in the on axis direction. Alternatively other charged particles can be formed and emitted in a direction perpendicular to the tip s lateral surface. Based upon a number of conical structures being combined into an array respective x rays and charged particles emitted at each tip can combine to form beams e.g. an x ray beam a proton beam an electron beam etc. The particular beam can be subsequently utilized based upon a particular application e.g. radiology material security etc.

At a determination can be made regarding the energy required for the protons. As previously mentioned protons which are emitted on axis or near on axis have a higher energy than those protons emitted off axis e.g. E E E per . Hence based on the range of possible energies a determination can be made regarding the beam spread that includes the protons of the required energies.

At based upon the required proton energies and the beam spread relative to the on axis direction the size material and position of the secondary target relative to the size and position of the primary target i.e. the target array at which the protons are formed can be determined whereby the size and position of the secondary target can be such that only those protons having a required energy are incident upon the secondary target and any protons having an undesired energy miss the secondary target. As previously mentioned different target materials can produce protons having respectively different energies e.g. material produces protons with energy a while material produces protons with energy b. Hence a material can be selected to form the primary target based upon a desired proton energy. Accordingly by selecting a material to produce protons and an appropriate angle a clean source of protons can be facilitated.

At an array can be formed where the array can include a plurality of conical target structures where each conical target can be formed from a solid tip and a hollow truncated cone. As previously described by utilizing a blunt tip e.g. 40 advantage can be taken of the phenomenon of protons being emitted in a direction perpendicular to a point on the lateral surface of the tip and further angle can be such that the protons are emitted in a beam of low divergence from the on axis direction of the tip and or conical target.

At the secondary target can be incorporated into an apparatus comprising a laser beam source and also the primary target array.

At the laser beam can irradiate the primary target array whereby protons having a range of energies E E and Ecan be formed and emitted from the various conical targets and tips forming the primary target array. The proton cloud can be directed towards the secondary target such that only those protons having a required energy are captured at the secondary target. The captured protons can interact with the material forming the secondary target whereby neutrons can be formed and emitted at the secondary target.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

