---

title: Group communication sessions in a wireless communication system
abstract: In an embodiment, a server obtains a user-specified mixing preference (USMP) for an access terminal (AT) in a communication group that is different than a default mixing rule for the group communication session. The server grants non-exclusive floors to a subset of ATs in the communication group, receives media frames from each AT in the subset and generates an output frame by selectively mixing the received media frames based on the USMP, after which the output frame is sent to the AT. In another embodiment, the AT obtains the USMP and receives unmixed versions of the media frames and then selectively mixes the received media frames at the AT based on the USMP. In another embodiment, an AT detects speech and requests the floor, and the AT buffers speech while waiting for the floor request to be granted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929940&OS=08929940&RS=08929940
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08929940
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140415
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 832 335 filed Jul. 8 2010 entitled GROUP COMMUNICATION SESSIONS IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM which is by the inventors of the subject application is assigned to the assignee hereof and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to group communication sessions in a wireless communications session.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment a server obtains a user specified mixing preference USMP for an access terminal AT in a communication group that is different than a default mixing rule for the group communication session. The server grants non exclusive floors to a subset of ATs in the communication group receives media frames from each AT in the subset and generates an output frame by selectively mixing the received media frames based on the USMP after which the output frame is sent to the AT. In another embodiment the AT obtains the USMP and receives unmixed versions of the media frames and then selectively mixes the received media frames at the AT based on the USMP. In another embodiment an AT detects speech and requests the floor and the AT buffers speech while waiting for the floor request to be granted.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to in a given AT AT A sends a request to the application server via the RAN to initiate a group communication session. For example the group communication session may correspond to a push to talk PTT or push to transfer PTX session and the transmission of the request in may be prompted based on a user of AT A pressing a PTT or PTX button on AT A. The application server receives the group communication session request from AT A and transmits an announce message in one or more sectors of the wireless communication system . At least ATs B . . . E receive the announce message and determine to join the announced group communication session. Accordingly ATs B . . . E send a call accept message to the application server and also send a registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message to the RAN to register to the group communication session and . The call accept message and registration message from each of ATs B . . . E may either be sent within separate messages on a reverse link access channel or alternatively may be bundled within the same message.

After receiving a call accept message from a first responder to the announce message from among ATs B . . . E the application server grants the floor for the group communication session to AT A . Accordingly after receiving the floor grant message AT A plays a tone to indicate to a user of AT A that the user can begin speaking and AT A begins transmitting frames on a reverse link channel to the application server . The series of frame transmissions from can correspond to data frames that actually include voice data or alternatively can correspond to silence frames that do not actually include voice data.

Each frame transmission can correspond to a real time transport protocol RTP packet or datagram or alternatively a RTCP RTP Control Protocol packet. A header portion of a 40 octet overhead RTP packet may be configured as follows 

Referring to Table 1 the fields of the RTP packet header portion are well known in the art. However certain fields are discussed in more detail with respect to embodiments described in more detail below and as such will be referred to briefly in this section. For example the contribution count CC field Sequence Number field Timestamp field and SSRC number field will now be addressed briefly. The CC field is an optional field that can hold a contributing source CSRC count value. Although not shown on the header diagram of Table 1 above the 12 octet header of the CC field can optionally be expanded to include more contributing sources. Contributing sources can be added by a mixer at the application server and are relevant for conferencing applications where elements of the data payload have originated from different computers. For point to point communications CSRCs are not necessarily required. The Sequence Number field holds a unique reference number which increments by one for each RTP packet sent from a particular source or AT. The Sequence Number field allows the receiver to reconstruct the sender s packet sequence. The Timestamp field corresponds to the time that the RTP packet was transmitted by the AT. The Timestamp field allows the receiving AT s to buffer and playout the data in a continuous stream. The SSRC number field corresponds to a number that identifies the source of the RTP packet which in identifies AT A. The SSRC number can be provisioned by the application server at the start of the group communication session.

After the RTP header portion the RTP packet includes a data payload portion. The data payload portion can include digitized samples of voice and or video. The length of the data payload can vary for different RTP packets. For example in voice RTP packets the length of the voice sample carried by the data payload may correspond to milliseconds ms of sound. Generally for longer media durations e.g. higher rate frames the data payload either has to be longer as well or else the quality of the media sample is reduced.

Returning to of the frames transmitted from AT A can correspond to full rate frames e.g. 8.6 kpbs that have a large data payload in the RTP packet half rate frames e.g. 4.3 kpbs that include a medium data payload in the RTP packet 1 8th rate frames e.g. 1.0 kpbs that include a small data payload in the RTP packet and so on. While references are generally made to EVRC A it will be readily apparent how these embodiments can be modified to accommodate other vocoders that include different frame rate options. As will be appreciated when a user of AT A is speaking AT A transmits higher rate frames than when the user of AT A is not speaking and AT A is transmitting silence frames. The application server includes a media control complex MCC module that handles the receipt of a media stream from floor holders and the transcoding of an output stream to one or more listening group members to the group communication session. In other words the MCC module replicates and re broadcasts the frames within RTP packets from AT A to each of ATs B . . . E. Accordingly a series of frame transmissions from AT A that are received at the MCC module of the application server may be represented as follows 

As noted above the MCC module receives the input stream as illustrated above in Table 2 and generates or transcodes an output stream that is transmitted to ATs B . . . E. Accordingly based on Table 2 the output stream generated by the MCC module of the application server may be configured as follows 

As shown in Table 3 above the output stream is configured such that AT A s frame transmissions are not transmitted back to AT A but are rather transmitted to ATs B . . . E in Table 2 above.

As the output stream is generated by the MCC module the application server transmits RTP packets including output frames from the output stream to ATs B . . . E as a series of group messages and ATs B . . . E monitor the group messages for the group communication session and . The group communication session then continues for a period of time until a user of AT A determines to give up the floor . can correspond to an explicit instruction from AT A to give up the floor or based on a period of inactivity from AT A.

After determining AT A has given up the floor to the group communication session the application server sends a floor release message to ATs B . . . E . Assume that a user of AT B and at least one of ATs C . . . E determine to attempt to gain control of the floor and send floor request messages to the application server and . The application server thereby receives multiple floor request messages and evaluates priority levels of the ATs requesting the floor to determine the AT that will next be granted the floor. For example based on the type of group communication session the application server may evaluate one or more priority tables maintained at the RAN and may grant the floor to a highest priority AT from among the ATs requesting the floor. For example the priority tables may be configured as follows 

In assume that the application server determines AT B has the highest priority level from among the requesting AT for the call type of the group communication session and the application server sends a floor grant message to AT B. Next AT B plays a tone to notify a user of AT B that AT B now has the floor and AT B begins transmitting frames e.g. data frames silence frames etc. within one or more RTP packets to the application server which are then converted into an output stream by the MCC module and re transmitted to ATs A and C . . . E . It will be appreciated that and are performed in the same manner as and as described above with respect to AT A and as such and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

As is characteristic of a half duplex session certain ATs in the group communication session of only transmit frames e.g. within RTP packets while other ATs in the group communication session only receive frames e.g. within RTP packets . An alternative to the process of is a full duplex group communication session which is described below with respect to . In a full duplex session each participant to the session can both transmit and receive frames e.g. within RTP packets .

In B instead of granting the floor to the session initiator i.e. AT A the application server sends a message to each AT that has joined the group communication session indicating that the session can begin B. Upon receiving the message B any of ATs A . . . E can begin speaking and thereby send data frames or else can remain silent and send silence frames B B B.

An example of the input stream from ATs A . . . E e.g. the frames included within RTP packets from ATs A . . . E for particular timeslots that are received at the MCC module of the application server may be represented as follows 

Referring to Table 5 above each of ATs A . . . E is transmitting frames over timeslots . . . T at a given data rate. In particular AT A is sending a series of half rate frames e.g. which indicates that a user of AT A is likely speaking to ATs B . . . E and sending voice data while ATs B . . . E are sending a series of 1 8th rate frames e.g. which indicates that the users of ATs B . . . E are likely listening to AT A have walked away from their phones etc. .

Returning to B the MCC module of the application server includes each of the frames from the input streams at each time interval t de jitters the aggregated media stream and then generates an output stream that includes all the media content from each of ATs A . . . E for that time interval. The application server then sends the resultant media stream to each of ATs A . . . E as a series of aggregated frames within one or more RTP packets which ATs A . . . E receive the resultant media stream based on monitoring B B and B. However it is appreciated that each of ATs A . . . E receives an aggregated media stream containing frames from all session participants except itself to avoid feedback problems. Thus AT A receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs B . . . E AT B receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs A and C . . . E and so on.

As noted above the MCC module receives the frames from ATs A . . . E i.e. the input stream as illustrated above in Table 5 above and then generates or transcodes output streams that are transmitted to ATs A . . . E at B e.g. which are each different because each output stream omits the frames of the input stream received from the target in order to reduce feedback . Accordingly based on Table 5 above the output stream generated by the MCC module of the application server over timeslots . . . T may be configured as follows 

As shown in Table 6 above due to a simplistic brute force forwarding implementation of the group communication session the aggregated media frames to ATs A . . . E at each timeslot of the output stream has a total data rate equal to the sum of the data rates for frames e.g. or RTP packets from ATs other than itself.

With respect to the conventional half duplex implementation for the group communication session in it will be appreciated that bandwidth utilization is superior as compared to the full duplex implementation for the group communication session of . However the inability of ATs to transmit to the group can at times be problematic e.g. if a current floor holder does not give up the floor and keeps on talking about irrelevant issues . In half duplex the current floor holder would be oblivious to the sentiment of the group because the floor holder cannot receive feedback from the other group members until the floor is released.

This problem does not occur in the full duplex implementation of . However the bandwidth requirements of a full duplex implementation are high because for N group communication session participants each participant receives an aggregated output stream having N 1 combined media flows which consumes a relatively high amount of bandwidth. Also aggregating a high number of media frames to form the media frames of the output stream can be processing intensive at the application server . Also the MCC module of the application server does not distinguish between media flows. Thus silence frames are granted the same priority as data frames in the output stream when the frames contend for the same timeslot in the output stream.

Accordingly embodiments which will now be described in more detail are directed to a hybrid implementation that includes certain properties of both half duplex and full duplex implementations. As will be described below in more detail each of a plurality of participants to a group communication session can be temporarily granted the floor or permission to speak to the group based on a recognition of which participants have currently expressed an intention to speak to the group. As used herein granting the floor to a particular AT means that the particular AT has a non exclusive permission to speak to the group whereby one or more other ATs can also potentially have permission to speak to the group. Accordingly references to floor grants below will be understood to correspond to non exclusive floor grants or granting a non exclusive floor. By contrast conventional half duplex sessions typically permit only one floorholder at a time so the floor in conventional half duplex sessions can be said to correspond to an exclusive floor.

After at least one of the call acceptance messages is received from ATs B . . . X at the application server the application server sets up the group communication session by sending status and contact messages to each AT that has accepted the group communication session A and A. For example the status message contains information regarding which group session participants have joined the group communication session. In another example the contact message contains information regarding how ATs A . . . X can contact the MCC that is handling the exchange of media between the respective ATs during the group communication session.

At this point assume that AT A detects that its user has performed a given type of user behavior that is indicative of a desire to speak to the group during the group communication session A. In an example the detection of A can correspond to a detection that the user of AT A has started to speak. In another example the detection of A can be more explicit such as a user of AT A pressing a CALL or PTT button on AT A that is interpreted as a request to speak to the group.

In response to the detection of A AT A transmits a floor request to the RAN which is forwarded to the application server A. Also while AT A waits to receive the floor for the group communication session AT A buffers media e.g. speech from the user of AT A A. The application server receives the floor request from AT A and sends a floor grant message to AT A A. Upon receiving the floor grant message AT A begins sending media e.g. audio including the media buffered in A to the application server for transmission to the remaining group session participants i.e. ATs B . . . X A. Hereinafter the stream of media frames from AT A that are sent from AT A to the application server for re transmission to ATs B . . . X will be referred to as input stream A.

While not shown explicitly in blocks A through A can be omitted in at least one alternative embodiment of the invention. In this case AT A s request to initiate or originate the group communication session functions as an implicit indication to the application server that the user of AT A wants to speak to the group. Thus in this alternative embodiment the application server can send the floor grant message of A to AT A after sending the status and contact messages in A and A. As will be appreciated in a scenario where the originator is automatically allocated the floor during session set up this floor could still be revoked if certain conditions are satisfied as described below with respect to .

The application server receives input stream A from AT A and forwards media contained in input stream A from AT A to ATs B . . . X within an output stream A. As will be appreciated no other group session participants are sending media to the group at this point such that the output stream contains media only from AT A in A. Also the application server need not send the media contained in input stream A back to AT A such that no output stream is sent back to AT A in A. In A the application server sends a group in call status update message to each group session participant to notify the respective participants with regard to which ATs are currently speaking to the group. In this case the group in call status message of A informs ATs A . . . X that AT A is currently transmitting media to the group.

In response to the detection of B AT B transmits a floor request to the RAN which is forwarded to the application server B. Also while AT B waits to receive a non exclusive floor for the group communication session AT B buffers media e.g. speech from the user of AT B B. The application server receives the floor request from AT B and determines whether to grant the non exclusive floor to AT B B. In an example the determination of B can be based on whether a threshold number of ATs have already been granted a non exclusive floor for the group communication session. In this embodiment if the threshold number of ATs have already been granted the non exclusive floor then AT B s request will be denied. Alternatively if the threshold number of ATs have already been granted the non exclusive floor and AT B has a high priority then another lower priority AT that has the floor can have its floor revoked after which the revoked floor can be transferred to AT B. In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the threshold number of ATs that can concurrently hold the floor and thereby speak to the group at the same time is at least equal to two 2 . Accordingly the application server determines to grant AT B the floor by which AT B can speak to the group in B.

Thus the application server sends a floor grant message to AT B B. During this process of setting up the floor at AT B AT A also holds the floor to the hybrid group communication session and continues to send media to the application server as input stream A for transmission to the group B. Upon receiving the floor grant message AT B begins sending media e.g. audio including the media buffered in B to the application server for transmission to the remaining group session participants i.e. ATs A and C . . . X B. Hereinafter the stream of media frames from AT B that are sent from AT B to the application server for re transmission to ATs A and C . . . X will be referred to as input stream B.

The application server receives input streams A and B from ATs A and B respectively and selectively mixes the individual frames from the respective input streams to form the output stream that will be transmitted to the group B. The selective mixing that occurs at B is based upon a default mixing rule that is executed by the application server by default for the session i.e. without express instructions to mix differently. Below the default mixing rule is i if there is only one non exclusive floorholder AT to provide a media frame for a particular timeslot each AT in the group except for the non exclusive floorholder AT is delivered an unmixed output frame that includes the media frame from the non exclusive floorholder AT and ii if there are multiple non exclusive floorholder ATs providing media frames for the particular timeslot each AT in the group is delivered a mixed or unmixed output frame that includes media frame s provided from each non exclusive floorholder AT except that the non exclusive floorholder ATs will not have their own media frame mixed into their particular output frames. However in other embodiments different default mixing rules can be implemented.

For example in accordance with the above noted default mixing rule the output stream that is generated for transmission to ATs C . . . X corresponds to a series of mixed media frames or output frames that each include a mixed combination of the media from input streams A and B. However because transmitting ATs do not receive their own media in the output stream that is fed back to the transmitting ATs from the application server it will be appreciated that the output stream that is generated for transmission to AT A corresponds to input stream B and that the output stream that is generated for transmission to AT B corresponds to input stream A. Accordingly in B the application server forwards the output streams to ATs A . . . X such that AT A receives an output stream containing media from input stream B e.g. output stream B AT B receives an output stream containing media from input stream A e.g. output stream A and ATs C . . . X each receive an output stream containing media from input streams A and B e.g. output stream A B . Examples of mixing media frames of different group session participants are provided in more detail within co pending U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 224 797 entitled MEDIA FORWARDING FOR A GROUP COMMUNICATION SESSION IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Jul. 10 2009 by Ashu Razdan Arul Ananthanarayanan and Devang Bhatt assigned to the assignee of the subject application having and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In B the application server sends a group in call status update message to each group session participant to notify the respective participants with regard to which ATs are currently speaking to the group. In this case the group in call status message of B informs ATs A . . . X that ATs A and B are currently transmitting media to the group.

Referring to after B of or after any of B or C at some point during the group communication session while ATs A and B are each sending media to the group assume that AT C detects that its user has performed a given type of user behavior that is indicative of a desire to speak to the group during the group communication session C. Similar to A of of the detection of C can correspond to a detection that the user of AT C has started to speak and or that the user of AT C has explicitly requested to speak to the group e.g. by pressing a CALL or PTT button on AT C .

In response to the detection of C AT C transmits a floor request to the RAN which is forwarded to the application server C. Also while AT C waits to receive the floor for the group communication session AT C buffers media e.g. speech from the user of AT C C. The application server receives the floor request from AT C and determines whether to grant a non exclusive floor to AT C C. In an example as discussed above with respect to B of the determination of C can be based on whether a threshold number of ATs have already been granted the floor for the group communication session. In this embodiment if the threshold number of ATs have already been granted non exclusive floors then AT C s request will be denied. Alternatively if the threshold number of ATs have already been granted the floor and AT C has a high priority then another lower priority AT that has the floor can have its floor revoked after which the revoked floor can be transferred to AT C. In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the threshold number of ATs that can concurrently hold the floor and thereby speak to the group at the same time is at least equal to three 3 . Accordingly the application server determines to grant AT C the floor by which AT C can speak to the group in C.

Thus the application server sends a floor grant message to AT C C. During this process of setting up the floor at AT C ATs A and B also hold the floor to the hybrid group communication session and continue to send media to the application server as input streams A and B respectively for transmission to the group C and C. Upon receiving the floor grant message AT C begins sending media e.g. audio including the media buffered in C to the application server for transmission to the remaining group session participants i.e. ATs A B and D . . . X C. Hereinafter the stream of media frames from AT C that are sent from AT C to the application server for re transmission to ATs A B and D . . . X will be referred to as input stream C.

The application server receives input streams A B and C from ATs A B and C respectively and selectively mixes the individual frames from the respective input streams to form the output stream that will be transmitted to the group C e.g. in accordance with the default mixing rule . Specifically the output stream that is generated for transmission to ATs D . . . X corresponds to a series of mixed media frames that each include a mixed combination of the media from input streams A B and C. However because transmitting ATs do not receive media in the output stream from the application server that was provided from their own respective input stream it will be appreciated that the output stream that is generated for transmission to AT A corresponds to a mixed combination of the media from input streams B and C that the output stream that is generated for transmission to AT B corresponds to a mixed combination of the media from input streams A and C and that the output stream that is generated for transmission to AT C corresponds to a mixed combination of the media from input streams A and B.

Accordingly in C the application server forwards the output streams to ATs A . . . X such that AT A receives an output stream containing media from input streams B and C e.g. output stream B C AT B receives an output stream containing media from input streams A and C e.g. output stream A C AT C receives an output stream containing media from input streams A and B e.g. output stream A B and ATs D . . . X each receive an output stream containing media from input streams A B and C e.g. output stream A B C . In C the application server sends a group in call status update message to each group session participant to notify the respective participants with regard to which ATs are currently speaking to the group. In this case the group in call status message of C informs ATs A . . . X that ATs A B and C are currently transmitting media to the group.

Referring to after C of at some point during the group communication session while ATs A B and C are each sending media to the group assume that AT D detects that its user has performed a given type of user behavior that is indicative of a desire to speak to the group during the group communication session D. Similar to A of B of and or C of the detection of D can correspond to a detection that the user of AT D has started to speak and or that the user of AT D has explicitly requested to speak to the group e.g. by pressing a CALL or PTT button on AT D .

In response to the detection of D AT D transmits a floor request to the RAN which is forwarded to the application server D. Also while AT D waits to receive the floor for the group communication session AT D buffers media e.g. speech from the user of AT C D. The application server receives the floor request from AT D and determines whether to grant the floor to AT D D. In an example as discussed above with respect to B of and or C of the determination of D can be based on whether a threshold number of ATs have already been granted non exclusive floors for the group communication session. In this embodiment if the threshold number of ATs have already been granted non exclusive floors then AT D s request will be denied. Alternatively if the threshold number of ATs have already been granted the floor and AT D has a high priority then another lower priority AT that has the floor can have its floor revoked after which the floor can be transferred to AT D.

In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the application server determines to reject the floor request from AT D in D e.g. because the threshold number of floor holders for the group communication session has been reached or for some other reason . Thus the application server sends a floor reject message to AT D D. AT D receives the floor reject message and stops buffering media D e.g. because AT D was rejected permission to send the media to the group at this time . AT D can also optionally notify its user with regard to the floor rejection e.g. so that the user of AT D can stop speaking under the assumption that his her media will be sent out to the group for example by outputting an audio or visual alert D.

During this process of attempting to set up but ultimately rejecting the floor for AT D ATs A B and C still hold the floor to the hybrid group communication session and continue to send media to the application server as input streams A B and C respectively for transmission to the group D D and D. The remaining of substantially corresponds to portions of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In particular D through D of substantially correspond to C through C respectively of .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the process of is an example whereby a group session participant is not permitted to speak to the group during the group communication session and is restricted to receiving the media from the participants that have received permission to speak to the group i.e. the floor . In embodiments that will be described below with respect to an AT that was previously granted the floor can have its floor revoked. The floor revocation can be initiated by the AT itself e.g. as in by a high priority AT or superuser e.g. as in or upon the initiative of the application server e.g. as in .

Accordingly illustrates an example of floor revocation in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In particular illustrates an example whereby ATs A . . . X are already engaged in a group communication session with ATs A B and C each holding a non exclusive floor and speaking to the group. Thus can be considered to be a continuation of the process of because establishes a group communication session with similar conditions.

Referring to after C of at some point during the group communication session while ATs A B and C are each sending media to the group assume that AT C detects that its user has performed a given type of user behavior that is indicative of the user no longer having a desire to speak to the group during the group communication session A. In an example the detection of A can correspond to a cessation of the user behavior that caused the detection of C of . For example if AT C detected that its user had the intention to speak to the group based on the user beginning to speak into AT C at C then the detection that the user no longer has the intention to speak to the group in A can correspond to when the user stops speaking. Alternatively the detection of A can correspond to a separate or supplemental action by the user that functions to explicitly indicate the user s intention to stop speaking to the group. For example if AT C detected that its user had the intention to speak to the group based on the user pressing CALL or PTT button on AT C then the detection that the user no longer has the intention to speak to the group in A can correspond to when the user presses another button on AT C e.g. a second press of the CALL or PTT button a press of an END or cancel button a detection of voice inactivity for a threshold period of time etc. . As will be appreciated any of the above noted buttons can correspond to physical tactile response type buttons or to soft buttons e.g. touch screen type buttons menu selections etc. .

In response to the detection of A AT C transmits a request to revoke drop or release its non exclusive floor to the RAN which is forwarded to the application server A. While not shown within AT C can optionally cease transmission of media to the application server for transmission to the group even before the application server acknowledges that AT C s floor has been revoked i.e. dropped or released . The application server receives the request to revoke the non exclusive floor from AT C drops AT C s non exclusive floor and then acknowledges that AT C s floor has been revoked A. At this point the application server stops mixing media from input stream C into any of the output streams to ATs A . . . X A. While not shown in AT C can also optionally notify its user with regard to the floor revocation e.g. so that the user of AT C is aware that his her speech is no longer being sent to the group .

After revoking AT C s non exclusive floor to the group communication session it will be appreciated that ATs A and B still hold non exclusive floors to the hybrid group communication session and continue to send media to the application server as input streams A and B respectively for transmission to the group A and A. The remaining of substantially corresponds to portions of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In particular A through A of substantially correspond to B through B respectively of .

Referring to assume that AT A is a high priority user or superuser B. In the embodiment of being a superuser or high priority user means that AT A has revocation privileges for one or more other group session participants. In an example the priorities of ATs for revocation privileges can be similar to the manner in which the application server is configured to evaluate contending floor requests as noted above. For example the superuser authorities can be established as follows whereby each AT can revoke non exclusive floors for any AT having a lower priority 

As shown in Table 7 AT A is the highest priority user for each type of call i.e. priority level 9 and thereby has permission to revoke the floor for any AT. AT B can revoke the floor for ATs D . . . X if the group communication session is a closed group call or a closed chat room call and so on. As will be appreciated this simply represents one manner in which a given group session participant can achieve revocation privileges or revocation authority with respect to one or more other participants of the group communication session.

Turning back to after C of at some point during the group communication session while ATs A B and C are each sending media to the group assume that AT A determines that its user desires to revoke AT C s floor B. As will be appreciated the user of AT A can determine to revoke AT C s floor for any of a number of reasons. For example the user of AT C may be very loud and distracting to the user of AT A the user of AT A may have something important to say and does not want to be interrupted by the user of AT C and so on. While AT A in the embodiment of is a current holder of a non exclusive floor to the group communication session it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to scenarios where a non floorholder or listener to the session is a superuser. In this case it will be appreciated that the user that invokes his her revocation authority over another user such that the other user is forced to give up his her non exclusive floor need not him herself currently have a non exclusive floor to the session. The determination of B can be based on input by the user of AT A into AT A.

Responsive to the determination of B AT A transmits a request to revoke the non exclusive floor of AT C to the RAN which forwards the request to the application server B. The application server receives the request to revoke the non exclusive floor from AT C and determines whether AT A has sufficient privileges to revoke the floor of AT C B. In this example it is assumed that AT A has sufficient revocation privileges to revoke the floor of AT C. As such the application server drops AT C s non exclusive floor and then notifies that AT C that its floor has been revoked B. AT C acknowledges the floor revocation message in B. While not shown in AT C can also optionally notify its user with regard to the floor revocation e.g. so that the user of AT C is aware that his her speech is no longer being sent to the group .

At this point the application server stops mixing media from input stream C into any of the output streams to ATs A . . . X B. After revoking AT C s non exclusive floor to the group communication session it will be appreciated that ATs A and B still hold non exclusive floors to the hybrid group communication session and continue to send media to the application server as input streams A and B respectively for transmission to the group B and B. Next B through B substantially correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity

Referring to after C of at some point during the group communication session while ATs A B and C are each sending media to the group assume that the application server determines to revoke AT C s floor C. As will be appreciated the application server can determine to revoke AT C s floor for any of a number of reasons. For example assume that the threshold or maximum number of non exclusive floor holders is three such that ATs A B and C are monopolizing the floor access. Next a floor request arrives from a user with a higher priority than AT C. In this case the application server can revoke AT C s floor so that the floor can be allocated to the higher priority user. In another example the application server can track how long the floor has been allocated to AT C and can revoke AT C s floor when the timer expires. It will be appreciated that there are many other reasons that can cause the application server to reach the decision to revoke AT C s floor in C. Also the time limit for floor allocation can be omitted entirely in certain embodiments such as when the group communication session corresponds to a lecture where the lecturer would be expected to hold the floor for most if not all of the session. In another example the application server can detect undesirable audio patterns e.g. such as white noise loud honking horns in a traffic jam emergency sirens intentional jamming sound from a malicious user etc. which is not good for mixed audio and revoke the floor of ATs originating such audio.

In a further alternative example instead of simply deciding to revoke the floor of one or more ATs at the application server and then issuing the revocation order the application server can query or prompt a superuser of the group communication session before taking such action. This alternative example merges with in a sense such that the application server provides recommendations to a superuser for floor revocation but the final authority still resides with the superuser e.g. AT A in .

After determining to revoke AT C s non exclusive floor in C the application server drops AT C s non exclusive floor and then notifies that AT C that its floor has been revoked C. AT C acknowledges the floor revocation message in C. While not shown in AT C can also optionally notify its user with regard to the floor revocation e.g. so that the user of AT C is aware that his her speech is no longer being sent to the group .

At this point the application server stops mixing media from input stream C into any of the output streams to ATs A . . . X C. After revoking AT C s non exclusive floor to the group communication session it will be appreciated that ATs A and B still hold non exclusive floors to the hybrid group communication session and continue to send media to the application server as input streams A and B respectively for transmission to the group C and C. Next C through C substantially correspond to A through A of respectively and or B through B of respectively and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity

The group communication session described above with respect to may correspond to a group communication session supported by IP multicasting protocols or IP unicasting protocols. In IP multicasting a downlink broadcast channel BCH carries a single multicast flow within one or more sectors to reach each listening multicast group member while a separate scheduling message e.g. a broadcast overhead message BOM is transmitted on a downlink control channel that indicates how the multicast group members can tune to the downlink BCH. In IP unicasting each group message is transmitted to each group communication session participant or multicast group member as a separate unicast message addressed to each group member individually.

In the embodiments described above in accordance with the default mixing rule media frames from one or more non exclusive floor holders are either forwarded to the rest of the communication group without mixing e.g. A of B with respect to the output frames for delivery to ATs A and B etc. or by first mixing some of the media frames together for delivery as mixed frame s to at least one target in the communication group e.g. B of with respect to the output frames for delivery to ATs C . . . X C of etc. . In either case the application server executes the same default mixing rule for its decision of how to generate each particular output frame in the respective output streams being delivered to the various group members in the communication group. Embodiments of the invention to be described in more detail below permit user specified mixing preferences which can potentially override the default mixing rule to be evaluated and enforced by the application server for the selective frame mixing.

Referring to the application server obtains a user specified mixing preference for at least one access terminal in the communication group that is different than a default mixing rule for a group communication session. The user specified mixing preference can be obtained either before the group communication session starts as a pre configured parameter or alternatively within a message that is received during an active group communication session. If the user specified mixing preference is obtained during the active group communication session the user specified mixing preference can cause the application server to modify how it is selectively mixing media frames into output frames for delivery to the at least one access terminal. For example if AT C is a non exclusive floorholder AT providing media frames for the group communication session and AT D provides while in session the user specified mixing preference requesting that AT C s media be blocked from delivery to AT D then the application server stops adding AT C s media to output frames being delivered to AT D.

The user specified mixing preference can be obtained either from the at least one access terminal itself or alternatively from a separate administrator. For example an operator of AT A may determine that it does not want to present media from AT D and may thereby configure the user specified mixing preference to block or de emphasize AT D s media from delivery to AT A. For example AT D s media can be omitted altogether or simply de emphasized e.g. reduced in volume relative to media from other ATs etc. In an alternative scenario an Information Technology IT administrator for the group communication session can designate certain ATs as priority ATs e.g. project leaders CEOs etc. such that whenever media is received from any priority AT media from any non priority ATs are excluded or de emphasized from output frames delivered to the communication group. In the IT administrator example the same user specified mixing preference can be attached to multiple or even all ATs participating in the group communication session.

The user specified mixing preference can thereby employ a ranking mechanism to prioritize a first subset of high ranked group members in the communication group relative to group members that do not belong to the first subset to de prioritize a second subset of low ranked group members in the communication group relative to group members that do not belong to the second subset or both. So in accordance with the user specified mixing preference media from the first subset of group members can function to include or emphasize such as by increasing relative volume media from group members in the first subset and or to exclude or de emphasize media from other group members that are not in the first subset while media from the second subset of group members is simply excluded altogether or merely de emphasized irrespective of whether media from any group members in the first subset is present.

As will be appreciated not all ATs or group members participating in the group communication session are necessarily associated with any user specified mixing preference. Any ATs or group members that do not have an associated user specified mixing preference will have their output frames generated in accordance with the default mixing rule noted above. Also different ATs or group members participating in the group communication session can be associated with different user specified mixing rules. Further the ATs associated with user specified mixing preferences can correspond either to non exclusive floorholder ATs or to non floorholder ATs.

Further the user specified mixing preference can be either a static parameter that remains unchanged or a dynamic parameter that can change based on circumstance. For example if AT B is operated by a co worker of AT A an example user specified mixing preference for AT B can designate AT A as belonging to the first subset e.g. highly prioritized or ranked during work hours and can designate AT A as belonging to the second subset e.g. low priority or ranking during non work hours. In another example if a particular speaker is monopolizing a conversation by talking constantly during a call that particular speaker can transition to either a higher or lower ranking. So the particular speaker can start the call with a low priority and end up with a high priority or vice versa. Thereby one or more current parameters e.g. a current time a current call context etc. can be used to dynamically change at least some portion of the user specified mixing preference in at least one implementation.

Returning to at some point after the group communication session is established the application server grants a non exclusive floor for the group communication session to each of a plurality of access terminals from the communication group . The setup and floor grant procedure at can be implemented as discussed above with respect to any of in an example. Also as noted above the user specified mixing preference for the at least one access terminal can be obtained at prior to session setup or the user specified mixing preference can alternatively be obtained during the group communication session. Thereby even though is shown in as being before can actually occur after in terms of execution order in certain scenarios. However it is assumed that occurs at some point prior to which is described next.

At the application server receives a media frame from each of the plurality of access terminals for transmission in a given timeslot to the communication group in accordance with the non exclusive floor grants. At this point instead of executing the default mixing rule for each AT in the communication group the application server generates one or more output frames by selectively mixing the media frames received from the plurality of access terminals wherein the one or more output frames include at least one output frame to be delivered to the at least one access terminal that is selectively mixed in accordance with the user specified mixing preference. Thereby even if some output frames are still generated based on the default mixing rule the output frame s targeted to the at least one access terminal for which the user specified mixing preference is established at are generated in accordance with the user specified mixing preference at . After generating the one or more output frames at the application server transmits the one or more output frames for the given timeslot to the communication group .

As discussed above with respect to the user specified mixing preference obtained at can be obtained either before initiation of the group communication session e.g. or alternatively can be received while the group communication session is active e.g. .

Referring to while the group communication session is active A AT A or an administrator of AT A sends a message that indicates a new or updated user specified mixing preference for AT A A. The application server receives the user specified mixing preference for AT A and modifies how media frames are being mixed for AT A during the group session based on the user specified mixing preference for AT A A. For example at A if the application server was preparing output frames for delivery to AT A based on the default mixing rule prior to A the application server will stop using the default mixing rule and will switch to the user specified mixing preference for AT A that was received at A. In an alternative example at A if the application server was preparing output frames for delivery to AT A based on an older version of the user specified mixing preference prior to A the application server will stop using the older version of the user specified mixing preference and will switch to the updated user specified mixing preference for AT A that was received at A.

Referring to before the group communication session is active B AT A or an administrator of AT A configures a new or updated user specified mixing preference for AT A B. The application server receives and stores the user specified mixing preference for AT A B. In an example the user specified mixing preference received by the application server can function to replace an older version of the user specified mixing preference maintained by the application server prior to B if present. At some later point in time the group communication session is initiated B and the application server will selectively mix media into output frames for delivery to AT A in accordance with the user specified mixing preference for AT A that was received at B and stored at B B.

Referring to before a group communication session between a particular communication group is initiated an administrator configures a user specified mixing preference for AT A that instructs the application server to de emphasize media AT D or AT E with respect to AT A e.g. to reduce an association volume of media from AT D and AT E or to exclude media from AT D and AT E altogether from delivery to AT A etc. . In an example the user specified mixing preference can be implemented because AT A does not have sufficient security clearance to monitor media from AT D or AT E or because AT D and AT E are operated by low priority users etc. In an example the user specified mixing preference for AT A can cause the application server to block or de emphasize all media from ATs D and E from delivery to AT A or alternatively can function to exclude or de emphasize media from ATs D or E from delivery to AT A only when media frames from other ATs are available for mixing in a particular timeslot.

Also still before the group communication session is initiated AT B configures a user specified mixing preference for AT B that indicates a particular interest in media from AT D . In an example the user specified mixing preference can be implemented because an operator of AT B identifies an operator of AT D to be particularly important to the conservation. The user specified mixing preference for AT B will cause the application server to exclude or de emphasize media from any other AT if any whenever media from AT D is available for mixing.

At the application server sets up the group communication session that includes ATs A . . . G as active participants and issues non exclusive floor grants to each of ATs C . . . G. The actual input streams which are comprised of a series of input media frames from ATs C . . . G are not shown explicitly in but are assumed to be present. The setup procedure of is not shown in detail in for the sake of simplicity but the setup procedure can be implemented using setup procedures as shown above in any of .

At the application server selectively mixes frames based on the user specified mixing preferences and or the default mixing rule for each of ATs A . . . G. In particular output frames for AT A are mixed based on the user specified mixing preference from which results in output frames conforming to Stream C F G i.e. a series of output frames that each include and or emphasize media mixed from media frames that originate from each of ATs C F and G for a particular timeslot with media frames from ATs D and E being excluded or de emphasized . The output frames for AT B are selectively mixed in this case unmixed based on the user specified mixing preference from which results output frames conforming to Stream D i.e. a stream of unmixed output frames mapping to media frames from AT D . The output frames for ATs C . . . G are mixed based on the default mixing rule as noted above. As will be appreciated this results in output frames for AT C conforming to Stream D E F G output frames for AT D conforming to Stream C E F G output frames for AT E conforming to Stream C D F G output frames for AT F conforming to Stream C D E G and output frames for AT G conforming to Stream C D E F. The respective output frames or output streams generated at are forwarded to ATs A . . . G .

During the group communication session AT C sends a message to the application server that requests the application server to implement a user specified mixing preference for AT C which specifies a particular interest in media from AT B and a disinterest in media from ATs F and G . Also AT B sends a message to the application server that requests the application server to implement an updated user specified mixing preference for AT B which specifies a particular interest in media from AT E in addition to AT D .

At the application server selectively mixes frames based on the user specified mixing preferences and or the default mixing rule for each of ATs A . . . G. In particular output frames for AT A are mixed based on the user specified mixing preference from which results in output frames conforming to Stream C F G i.e. a series of output frames overtime that each include media mixed from media frames from each of ATs C F and G with media frames from ATs D and E being excluded or de emphasized . The output frames for AT B are mixed based on the updated user specified mixing preference from which results output frames conforming to Stream D E. The output frames for AT C are mixed based on the user specified mixing preference from which results output frames conforming to Stream D E i.e. no media available from AT B because AT B is not a floorholder media from AT F and AT G is excluded or de emphasized as requested and media from AT C is also excluded because the target is AT C which leaves media from AT D and AT E to be mixed into the output frames for delivery to AT C . The output frames for ATs D . . . G are mixed based on the default mixing rule as noted above. As will be appreciated this results in output frames for AT D conforming to Stream C E F G output frames for AT E conforming to Stream C D F G output frames for AT F conforming to Stream C D E G and output frames for AT G conforming to Stream C D E F. The respective output frames or output streams generated at are forwarded to ATs A . . . G .

While some of the user defined mixing preferences discussed above relate to specifying which media sources are to be included or excluded from a particular output frame other user defined mixing preferences can prioritize and or de prioritize media sources without excluding media from de prioritized or non prioritized sources altogether. For example a user defined mixing preference specifying an interest in AT A s media and a disinterest in AT B s media could function to include AT A s media at higher volume e.g. emphasized in a corresponding output frame and or mixing AT B s media at a lower volume e.g. de emphasized in the corresponding output frame with any neutral media sources having their media added to the corresponding output frame at a normal volume. In an alternative example a user defined mixing preference specifying an interest in AT A s media could function to include AT A s media in a corresponding output frame as noted above while separately triggering delivery a text transcript of AT A s media so that the target user can both hear or view AT A s media while also being able to read AT A s media. Thereby the prioritized treatment of media sources in accordance with the user defined mixing preferences can theoretically extend beyond how the media source s media is treated in terms of mixing within the output frames and could trigger supplemental actions e.g. such a text transcript delivery .

While relate to selectively mixing media frames using user specified mixing preferences at the application server it is also possible that the application server can forward output frames including unmixed media to some or all of the session participants which then perform the selective mixing operation using their respective user specified mixing preferences or theoretically even the default mixing rule locally. For example certain ATs in the group communication session can notify the application server with regard to their preference to receive output frames with unmixed media to facilitate the AT based selective mixing operation. In another example the application server can simply forward all output frames to the session participants as unmixed output frames.

Referring to at the given AT obtains a user specified mixing preference to be enforced at the given AT. The user specified mixing preference can be configured locally at the given AT or alternatively can be configured remotely by an administrator of the given AT and then downloaded to the given AT. Similar to of the operation of can occur either before or after the group communication session is initiated. The user specified mixing preference obtained at for client based execution can be configured similarly to any of the aforementioned examples of user specified mixing preferences for server based execution e.g. dynamic context based user specified mixing preferences etc. and thereby will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to at some point after initiating of the group communication session the given AT receives an unmixed output frame for the group communication session . For example the output frame received at can include unmixed media frames from each of a plurality of access terminals in the communication group that hold a non exclusive floor for the group communication session. The given AT selectively mixes the unmixed media frames in accordance with the user specified mixing preference to produce a selectively mixed output frame and then outputs the selectively mixed output frame . Generally is similar to of except for being performed for a single AT at the AT itself instead of at the application server .

Referring to before a group communication session between a particular communication group is initiated an administrator configures a user specified mixing preference for AT A that instructs the AT A to de emphasize media from AT D and AT E e.g. to reduce an association volume of media from AT D and AT E or to exclude media from AT D and AT E altogether from output altogether . In an example the user specified mixing preference can be implemented because AT A does not have sufficient security clearance to monitor media from AT D or AT E or because AT D and AT E are operated by low priority users etc.

Also still before the group communication session is initiated AT B configures a user specified mixing preference for AT B that indicates a particular interest in media from AT D . In an example the user specified mixing preference can be implemented because an operator of AT B identifies an operator of AT D to be particularly important to the conservation. The user specified mixing preference for AT B may cause AT B to emphasize AT D s media whenever it is available for mixing and or to exclude or de emphasize media from any other AT if any whenever media from AT D is available for mixing.

At the application server sets up the group communication session that includes ATs A . . . G as active participants and issues non exclusive floor grants to each of ATs C . . . G e.g. similar to of . The actual input streams which are comprised of a series of input media frames from ATs C . . . G are not shown explicitly in but are assumed to be present. The setup procedure of is not shown in detail in for the sake of simplicity but the setup procedure can be implemented using setup procedures as shown above in any of .

At irrespective of whether the application server selectively mixes frames based on the user specified mixing preferences and or the default mixing rule for ATs C . . . G the application server forwards unmixed output frames or unmixed media streams with output frames that do not include mixed media to ATs A and B. By providing the unmixed media frames from ATs C . . . G to ATs A and B ATs A and B have the option to mix the media themselves. Also while not discussed in in much detail some type of output frames mixed or unmixed are also delivered to ATs C . . . G at .

At AT A mixes the media frames from ATs A . . . G in accordance based on the user specified mixing preference from which results in output frames conforming to Stream C F G i.e. a series of output frames that each include and or emphasize media mixed from media frames that originate from each of ATs C F and G for a particular timeslot with media frames from ATs D and E being excluded or de emphasized . At AT B mixes the media frames from ATs A . . . G based on the user specified mixing preference from which results in output frames conforming to Stream D i.e. a series of output frames that each include and or emphasize media mixed from media frames that originate from AT D for a particular timeslot with media frames from other ATs being excluded or de emphasized . The respective output frames mixed at and are then output at and respectively.

During the group communication session assume that AT B determines to enforce an updated user specified mixing preference for AT B which specifies a particular interest in media from AT E in addition to AT D . Unlike the server does not need to be notified of this change because AT B is performing its selective mixing as a local operation.

At irrespective of whether the application server selectively mixes frames based on the user specified mixing preferences and or the default mixing rule for ATs C . . . G the application server continues to forward unmixed output frames or unmixed media streams with output frames that do not include mixed media to ATs A and B e.g. similar to . Also while not discussed in in much detail some type of output frames mixed or unmixed are also delivered to ATs C . . . G at .

At AT A continues to mix the media frames from ATs A . . . G in accordance based on the user specified mixing preference from which results in output frames conforming to Stream C F G i.e. a series of output frames that each include and or emphasize media mixed from media frames that originate from each of ATs C F and G for a particular timeslot with media frames from ATs D and E being excluded or de emphasized . At AT B mixes the media frames from ATs A . . . G based on the updated user specified mixing preference from which results in output frames conforming to Stream D E i.e. a series of output frames that each include and or emphasize media mixed from media frames that originate from each of ATs D and E for a particular timeslot with media frames from other ATs being excluded or de emphasized . The respective output frames mixed at and are then output at and respectively.

While some the user defined mixing preferences discussed above relate to specifying which media sources are to be included or excluded from a particular output frame other user defined mixing preferences can prioritize and or de prioritize media sources without excluding media from de prioritized or non prioritized sources altogether. For example a user defined mixing preference specifying an interest in AT A s media and a disinterest in AT B s media could function to include AT A s media at higher volume e.g. emphasized in a corresponding output frame and or mixing AT B s media at a lower volume e.g. de emphasized in the corresponding output frame with any neutral media sources having their media added to the corresponding output frame at a normal volume. In an alternative example a user defined mixing preference specifying an interest in AT A s media could function to include AT A s media in a corresponding output frame as noted above while separately triggering delivery a text transcript of AT A s media so that the target user can both hear or view AT A s media while also being able to read AT A s media. Thereby the prioritized treatment of media sources in accordance with the user defined mixing preferences can theoretically extend beyond how the media source s media is treated in terms of mixing within the output frames and could trigger supplemental actions e.g. such a text transcript delivery .

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. AT etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. the application MCC etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to AT as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to AT as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad button etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server or MCC described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access ports used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to an AT implementation as in of .

While embodiments have been above described generally to audio based group communication sessions other embodiments can be directed to other types of group communication session such as video conferences etc. Also while embodiments have been directed above to RTP packets it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention can be directed to other types of media packets. For example in a system operating in accordance with RealNetworks protocols a RDT packet may be used instead of an RTP packet. In other words as noted above while embodiments have generally been directed to an implementation in accordance with EVRC A protocols other Vocoders e.g. AMR etc. that have a discrete frame rate set can be used in other embodiments of the invention.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

