---

title: Method and system for keeping interest alive in a content centric network
abstract: One embodiment provides a system that facilitates a content requesting device to handle a potential timeout event. During operation, the system receives, by a content producing device, a packet that corresponds to a first Interest message from a content requesting device, where the first Interest includes a name. Responsive to determining that additional time is required to generate a matching Content Object for the first Interest, the system generates a notification message which indicates a time period after which a second Interest is to be sent out by the content requesting device. The name for the second Interest can be the same as the name for the first Interest or a new name as indicated in the notification message. The system transmits the notification message to the content requesting device, thereby facilitating the content requesting device to handle a potential timeout event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590887&OS=09590887&RS=09590887
owner: CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09590887
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
The subject matter of this application is related to the subject matter in the following applications 

This disclosure is generally related to distribution of digital content. More specifically this disclosure is related to providing notification by a content producing device to a content requesting device of a potential timeout event in order to keep an Interest alive in a content centric network CCN .

The proliferation of the Internet and e commerce continues to create a vast amount of digital content. Content centric network CCN architectures have been designed to facilitate accessing and processing such digital content. A CCN includes entities or nodes such as network clients forwarders e.g. routers and content producers which communicate with each other by sending Interest packets for various content items and receiving Content Object packets in return. CCN Interests and Content Objects are identified by their unique names which are typically hierarchically structured variable length identifiers HSVLI . An HSVLI can include contiguous name components ordered from a most general level to a most specific level. As an Interest packet is routed through the network from a content requesting node to a content producing node each intermediate CCN router adds an entry in its Pending Interest Table PIT corresponding to the Interest and forwards the Interest to the next CCN router. When a matching Content Object packet is sent from the content producing node back to the requesting node it follows the reverse path of the Interest. Each intermediate CCN router forwards the Content Object along the requesting interfaces listed in the corresponding PIT entry and subsequently removes the PIT entry indicating that the Interest has been fulfilled.

A PIT entry can also be removed by a CCN node or router when the PIT entry times out. A node can select any time out value that the node deems appropriate upon adding an Interest to its PIT. PIT entries can time out under different scenarios. One case is due to congestion in the network which results in the system dropping the Interest or the matching Content Object. Another case is when the content producing node or application responsible for generating the matching Content Object needs to perform a computationally intensive task e.g. that takes 45 seconds before it can send a response back. In both cases PIT entry timeouts can lead to the requesting node re expressing the Interest sometimes repeatedly and over a short period of time. PIT entry timeouts can also cause intermediate CCN routers to transmit the re expressed Interests on multiple interfaces thus increasing network traffic and creating additional congestion.

One embodiment provides a system that facilitates a content requesting device to handle a potential timeout event. During operation the system receives by a content producing device a packet that corresponds to a first Interest message from a content requesting device where the first Interest includes a name. Responsive to determining that additional time is required to generate a matching Content Object for the first Interest the system generates a notification message which indicates a time period after which a second Interest is to be sent out by the content requesting device. The name for the second Interest can be the same as the name for the first Interest or a new name as indicated in the notification message. The system transmits the notification message to the content requesting device thereby facilitating the content requesting device to handle a potential timeout event.

In some embodiments the notification message further indicates a name for the second Interest to be sent out where the name for the second Interest is identical to or different from the name for the first Interest.

In some embodiments the notification message is a Content Object thereby facilitating an intermediate router to remove an entry in its Pending Interest Table PIT corresponding to the first Interest.

In some embodiments the notification message further indicates that the content producing device is generating the content in response to the first Interest.

In some embodiments the content producing device receives a packet that corresponds to the second Interest. Responsive to determining that a matching Content Object for the second Interest is available the system generates a matching Content Object in response to the second Interest where the matching Content Object contains as payload the content corresponding to the first Interest. Furthermore responsive to determining that a matching Content Object for the second Interest is not available the system generates an additional notification message which indicates a time period after which a third Interest is to be sent out by the content requesting device.

In some embodiments the system generates by a content requesting device a packet that corresponds to a first Interest message where the first Interest includes a name. The system transmits the first Interest to a content producing device. The system receives a notification message which indicates a time period after which a second Interest is to be sent out. Responsive to reaching an expiration of the time period indicated in the notification message the system generates a packet that corresponds to the second Interest message. The system receives a matching Content Object in response to the second Interest thereby facilitating the content requesting device to handle a potential timeout event.

In some embodiments the content requesting device responsive to transmitting the second Interest receives an additional notification message which indicates a time period after which a third Interest is to be sent out.

In some embodiments the content requesting device transmits the second Interest where the second Interest includes the name indicated in the notification message.

In some embodiments the content requesting device removes an entry from a Pending Interest Table PIT where the entry corresponds to the first Interest.

In some embodiments the content requesting device creates an entry in a PIT where the entry corresponds to the second Interest.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the embodiments and is provided in the context of a particular application and its requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present invention is not limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a system which facilitates handling a potential timeout event when a content producing device e.g. a server requires additional time to generate a matching Content Object in response to an Interest from a content requesting device e.g. a client . During operation a content producer receives a first Interest message from a content requester and determines that additional time is needed to generate the matching Content Object. The content producer sends a notification message to the content requester and includes an estimate of how long the computation will take along with a name to be used in a subsequently transmitted second Interest. The notification message can be a Content Object whose name is the same as or different from the name for the first Interest message. As the notification message travels back through the network each intermediate router forwards the Content Object on the reverse path as the first Interest and removes the corresponding entry from its Pending Interest Table PIT . The content requester receives the notification message and keeps track of the time duration. Upon expiration of the time duration the content requester sends the second Interest using the name provided in the notification message. The content producer then transmits a Content Object with the second Interest name back to the content requester. The matching Content Object contains as payload the content matching the first Interest. As the Content Object travels back through the network each intermediate router forwards the Content Object on the reverse path as the second Interest and removes the corresponding entry from its PIT.

The content producer is responsible for notifying the content requester that generation of the responsive Content Object is in progress. Intermediate CCN routers do not keep track of the computation progress at the content producer and are not required to maintain the state associated with the first Interest for the duration of the computation time. Thus the first Interest is kept alive through notification by the content producer to the content requester and the appropriately delayed second Interest sent out by the content requester. This solution reduces the amount of unnecessary PIT entry timeouts and frees PIT spaces which in turn reduces network congestion by reducing the number of re expressed Interests transmitted and pending in a CCN.

In CCN each piece of content is individually named and each piece of data is bound to a unique name that distinguishes the data from any other piece of data such as other versions of the same data or data from other sources. This unique name allows a network device to request the data by disseminating a request or an Interest that indicates the unique name and can obtain the data independent from the data s storage location network location application and means of transportation. The following terms are used to describe the CCN architecture 

A single piece of named data which is bound to a unique name. Content Objects are persistent which means that a Content Object can move around within a computing device or across different computing devices but does not change. If any component of the Content Object changes the entity that made the change creates a new Content Object that includes the updated content and binds the new Content Object to a new unique name.

A name in a CCN is typically location independent and uniquely identifies a Content Object. A data forwarding device can use the name or name prefix to forward a packet toward a network node that generates or stores the Content Object regardless of a network address or physical location for the Content Object. In some embodiments the name may be a hierarchically structured variable length identifier HSVLI . The HSVLI can be divided into several hierarchical components which can be structured in various ways. For example the individual name components parc home ccn and test.txt can be structured in a left oriented prefix major fashion to form the name parc home ccn test.txt. Thus the name parc home ccn can be a parent or prefix of parc home ccn test.txt. Additional components can be used to distinguish between different versions of the content item such as a collaborative document.

In some embodiments the name can include a non hierarchical identifier such as a hash value that is derived from the Content Object s data e.g. a checksum value and or from elements of the Content Object s name. A description of a hash based name is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 847 814. A name can also be a flat label. Hereinafter name is used to refer to any name for a piece of data in a name data network such as a hierarchical name or name prefix a flat name a fixed length name an arbitrary length name or a label e.g. a Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS label .

A packet that indicates a request for a piece of data and includes a name or a name prefix for the piece of data. A data consumer can disseminate a request or Interest across an information centric network which CCN routers can propagate toward a storage device e.g. a cache server or a data producer that can provide the requested data to satisfy the request or Interest.

The methods disclosed herein are not limited to CCN networks and are applicable to other architectures as well. A description of a CCN architecture is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 338 175.

Content requesting device can generate a first Interest in a piece of content. Network routes the Interest to CCN router which adds an entry in its Pending Interest Table PIT and forwards the Interest to intermediate CCN router . Each CCN router that receives the first Interest performs the same actions adding an entry in its PIT and forwarding the first Interest to the next hop in the CCN routing path e.g. CCN routers . Subsequently CCN router adds an entry in its PIT and forwards the first Interest to content producing device . Device determines that additional computation time is needed to generate the matching Content Object so device sends a notification message back to content requesting device . The notification message can be a Content Object with the same name as the first Interest and can further include a time duration e.g. 30 seconds which indicates an amount of time after which a second Interest should be sent out by content requesting device . The notification message can also include a new name to use in the second Interest. As the notification message travels back to content requesting device each CCN router on the reverse CCN routing path e.g. CCN routers and and subsequently device receives the notification message and removes the corresponding PIT entry for the first Interest.

When the time duration indicated in the notification message elapses content requesting device sends out the second Interest using the new name provided in the notification message. The second Interest travels the same path as the first Interest e.g. through CCN routers and and reaches content producing device which transmits the matching Content Object to content requesting device back along the same path in the reverse direction. Each intermediate router again forwards the matching Content Object to the previous hop node in the reverse data path and removes the corresponding PIT entry for the second Interest.

In some embodiments content requesting device can send out the second Interest before the time duration indicated in the notification message has elapsed. In response if the matching Content Object is available content producing device can transmit the matching Content Object. Alternatively content producing device can determine that additional computation time is still needed to generate the responsive Content Object. Device can send a second or additional keep alive notification message that indicates a time period after which a third Interest should be sent out by content requesting device . The second notification message can include a name for the third Interest which is identical to or different from the name of the second Interest. illustrates exemplary communication between a content requesting device e.g. device in and a content producing device e.g. device in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The vertical lines beneath content requesting device and content producing device indicate passage of time. During operation content requesting device sends a first Interest with a name of a b c d to content producing device operation . Device determines that additional computation time is required to generate the matching Content Object and generates a notification message in the form of a Content Object operation . Device transmits the notification message Content Object with a name of a b c d and additional information to indicate to requesting device to keep the first Interest alive by re expressing the first Interest as a second Interest at a later time operation . The notification message includes a message to wait for example an additional 30 seconds before sending out the second Interest and to use the new name of a b c d1 for the second Interest. Content requesting device monitors the time and when the duration indicated in the notification message has elapsed sends a second Interest using the new name of a b c d1 as indicated in the notification message operation . Meanwhile content producing device has successfully completed generation of the Content Object matching the first Interest operation so device transmits the matching Content Object back to device operation .

The content requesting device determines the expiration of the time duration indicated in the notification message and generates a packet that corresponds to the second Interest message operation . The second Interest includes the new name indicated in the notification message. In some embodiments the second Interest includes the same name as the first Interest. The system creates a corresponding PIT entry and transmits the second Interest to the content producing device operation . In response to the second Interest the content requesting device receives a Content Object that contains as its payload the content matching the first Interest operation . Finally because the second Interest has been fulfilled the system removes the corresponding PIT entry for the second Interest operation .

Note that both the first Interest and the second Interest can travel through a network that includes multiple intermediate CCN routers. Each of these CCN routers adds a corresponding entry in its Pending Interest Table PIT for the appropriate Interest and forwards the Interest on to the next hop in the CCN routing path. Furthermore both the notification message and the matching Content Object can travel through the same network along a reverse path as the first Interest and the second Interest respectively. In one embodiment upon receiving a notification message from the content producing device each CCN router on the reverse path removes the corresponding entry in its PIT. Thus notification from the content producing device to the content requesting device allows the system to keep alive the first Interest through the resulting and appropriately delayed second Interest while freeing the PIT spaces in the intermediate CCN routers.

Content processing system can include instructions which when executed by computer and communication system can cause computer and communication system to perform methods and or processes described in this disclosure. Specifically content processing system may include instructions for receiving by a content producing device a packet that corresponds to a first Interest message from a content requesting device where the first Interest includes a name communication mechanism . Content processing system can also include instructions for responsive to determining that additional time is required to generate a matching Content Object generating a notification message which indicates a time period after which a second Interest is to be sent out notification message mechanism . Content processing system can include instructions for transmitting the notification message to the content requesting device communication mechanism . Content processing system can further include instructions for receiving a packet that corresponds to the second Interest communication mechanism and responsive to determining that the matching Content Object for the second Interest is available generating a matching Content Object in response to the second Interest content generation mechanism . Content processing system can include instructions for responsive to determining that the matching Content Object for the second Interest is not available generating an additional notification message which indicates a time period after which a third Interest is to be sent out by the content requesting device notification message mechanism .

Content processing system can additionally include instructions for generating by a content requesting device a packet that corresponds to a first Interest message where the first Interest includes a name communication mechanism . Content processing system can include instructions for transmitting the first Interest to a content producing device and receiving a notification message which indicates a time period after which a second Interest is to be sent out communication mechanism . Content processing system can also include instructions for responsive to reaching an expiration of the time period indicated in the notification message generating a packet that corresponds to the second Interest message re expressed Interest mechanism . Content processing system can include instructions for transmitting the second Interest where the second Interest includes a name which is identical to or different from the name for the first Interest communication mechanism . Content processing system can include instructions for receiving a matching Content Object in response to the second Interest communication mechanism . Content processing system can also include instructions for responsive to transmitting the second Interest receiving an additional notification message which indicates a time period after which a third Interest is to be sent out communication mechanism .

Content processing system can further include instructions for removing an entry from a Pending Interest Table PIT where the entry corresponds to the first Interest Pending Interest Table mechanism . Content processing system can include instructions for creating an entry in the PIT where the entry corresponds to the second Interest Pending Interest Table mechanism .

Data can include any data that is required as input or that is generated as output by the methods and or processes described in this disclosure. Specifically data can store at least a packet that corresponds to a first Interest message a name for the first Interest a notification message which indicates a time period after which a second Interest is to be sent out a wait duration a name for the second Interest a notification message that is a Content Object an indicator that the content producing device is generating the content in response to the first Interest a packet that corresponds to the second Interest and includes a name provided in the notification message an additional notification message which indicates a time period after which a third Interest is to be sent out a name for the third Interest a packet that corresponds to the third Interest and includes the name for the third Interest a Content Object that contains as payload content in response to the first Interest an entry in a Pending Interest Table PIT that corresponds to the first Interest a PIT entry that corresponds to the second Interest and a PIT entry that corresponds to the third Interest.

The data structures and code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. The computer readable storage medium includes but is not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs or other media capable of storing computer readable media now known or later developed.

The methods and processes described in the detailed description section can be embodied as code and or data which can be stored in a computer readable storage medium as described above. When a computer system reads and executes the code and or data stored on the computer readable storage medium the computer system performs the methods and processes embodied as data structures and code and stored within the computer readable storage medium.

Furthermore the methods and processes described above can be included in hardware modules or apparatus. The hardware modules or apparatus can include but are not limited to application specific integrated circuit ASIC chips field programmable gate arrays FPGAs dedicated or shared processors that execute a particular software module or a piece of code at a particular time and other programmable logic devices now known or later developed. When the hardware modules or apparatus are activated they perform the methods and processes included within them.

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the forms disclosed. Accordingly many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. Additionally the above disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

