---

title: Serving a live stream as an advertisement
abstract: A content server receives live streams from a content distributor to transmit to users of the content server. In one embodiment, the content server promotes the live streams received from the content distributor, by serving portions of the live stream as advertisements (ads) to users of the content server along with videos or digital content requested by the users. The content server buffers the live stream. The content server receives a request for a video from a client device. The content server identifies the video requested by the user and metadata associated with the identified video. The content server, based on the metadata determines whether to serve the client device with a live-stream ad, as a pre-roll ad for example, along with the video requested by the user. The content server then identifies a buffered live-stream ad to transmit to the client device along with the requested video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503794&OS=09503794&RS=09503794
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09503794
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140508
---
The disclosure generally relates to the field of distributing live media or digital content and in particular to promoting the live media or digital content.

Live streams of media are broadcast to people on a daily basis thereby allowing viewers to watch live events such as the sports concerts and speeches. Many platforms such as YOUTUBE stream live streams to users of the platform. However a challenge faced by a live stream creator or distributor today is reaching an audience for a live stream. Often live stream creators or distributors must expend a huge budget marketing their event months prior to the event occurring to make users aware of the event and encourage users to watch the live stream of the event.

A content server stores digital content including video audio image animation or text content which users of the content server may view and or upload. For example users request to view videos via a webpage or mobile device and the content server on receiving a request for a video from a user provides the user with the video. In one embodiment the content server receives live media streams from content distributors and distributes the live streams to users of the content server. The live streams are digital content representing live events such as a sports match and are captured in real time. The content server provides the content distributor with the option of promoting live streams as advertisements to users of the content server thereby making users of the content server aware of a live event available to the users of the content server to view live via the live stream.

Users of the content server often request to view one or more videos stored on or available via the content server. The content server to promote live streams of live events may provide users with live stream pre roll ads along with the requested videos to make users of the content server aware of a live event captured by a live stream provided by the content server. Users may interact with the live stream pre roll ad pausing the live stream ad for example or may choose to view the live stream provided by the content distributor via the content server instead of the video initially requested by the user. Thus by generating and serving portions of a live stream as a pre roll ad the content server makes users of the content server who may be interested in viewing the live stream of a live event aware of the live stream and the current event being captured by the live stream.

To provide the user with a live stream pre roll ad the content server receives and prepares live streams to be served as live stream pre roll ads to users of the content server. The content server transcodes the received live streams so a variety of client devices having different video compatibilities may be served a version of the live stream. The content server also buffers the versions of the live stream thereby allowing the content server to transmit the buffered live stream as an advertisement to the user providing the user with a smooth uninterrupted viewing experience.

In one example the content server provides content distributors with a user interface via which the content distributors may specify publishing information associated with the live stream. In another example the content server provides the users of the content server with a user interface to interact with the live stream ads as the live stream ads are presented to the users of the content server.

The content server receives a request for a video from a client device. The content server identifies the video requested by the user and metadata associated with the identified video. The content server based on the metadata determines whether to serve the client device with a live stream ad for example as a pre roll ad along with the video requested by the user. The content server identifies a buffered live stream ad to transmit to the client device along with the requested video. In one example the content server measures the interactions of the user with the live stream ad and stores the interactions for example whether the user interacted with a pause control served to the user via user interface along with the live stream ad thereby pausing the live stream ad. In another example the live stream ad is presented to the user for a period of time after which the video requested by the user is presented to the user.

The Figures and the following description relate to particular embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. Alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The client device accesses digital content through the network and presents digital content to a user. Presenting digital content includes playing a video or audio file as well as displaying an image or animation. In one embodiment the client device is a computer which is described further below with respect to . Example client devices include a desktop a laptop a tablet a mobile device a smart television and a wearable device. Using the client device a user may upload and manage digital content on the content server which also includes creating live streams and managing live streams captured using the client device . The client device may contain software such as a web browser or other application for viewing digital content from the content server . The client device may include software such as a video player an audio player or an animation player to support presentation of embedded digital content.

The content distributor is a computer system that provides one or more live streams to the content server . Example content distributors include a desktop a laptop a smartphone a tablet a mobile device a camera or a video recording device. A content distributor may generate a live feed of media content and transmit the live feed to the content server as a live stream. A content distributor may be operated for example by a television network a radio station a concert producer an individual user that generates live media content or any other entity that generates live media content. In one example a content distributor may receive a live stream from another system and forward the live stream to the content server to be distributed to users of the content server .

In one embodiment for a live stream transmitted by a content distributor to the content server the content distributor also transmits to the content server publishing information associated with the live stream. The publishing information includes instructions related to the distribution of the live stream such as whether portions of the live stream may be used as an advertisement or demographics to whom the content distributor would like to promote the live stream. The content distributor may transmit the publishing information of a live stream prior to transmitting the live stream to the content server . In one example the content server provides the content distributor with a user interface to select various instructions to include in the publishing information as described in greater detail in conjunction with the content server below.

The network enables communications among the entities connected to them through one or more local area networks and or wide area networks. In one embodiment the network is the Internet and uses standard wired and or wireless communications technologies and or protocols. The network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX long term evolution LTE 3G 4G digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand and or PCI Express Advanced Switching. Similarly the networking protocols used on the networks can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or file transfer protocol FTP .

The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML extensible markup language XML and or JavaScript Object Notation JSON . In addition all or some of the transmitted data can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as the secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs and or Internet Protocol security IPsec . In another embodiment the entities use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above.

The content server stores digital content uploaded by users of client devices and serves this digital content to viewing users of client devices . The content server may also acquire digital content from content owners e.g. production companies record labels publishers . The content server also receives live streams of events from a content distributor and transmits publishes or makes available the live stream to users of the content server . In one embodiment the content server includes a video serving module a live stream module a video search module a content interface a server an advertisement ad store and a content store . The functionality of the illustrated components may be duplicated or redistributed among a different configuration of modules.

The content server stores uploaded digital content in the content store . The content store may include the digital content itself e.g. the audio or video file or a pointer thereto. The content store also houses metadata associated with the digital content. Metadata are properties of the digital content that indicate the digital content s source e.g. an uploader name an uploader user identifier and or attributes e.g. a video identifier a title a description a file size a file type a frame rate a resolution an upload date .

In one example the metadata associated with the digital content includes an ad identifier identifying a type of ad that may be displayed during before or after playback of the digital content. These types of ads are referred to as a pre roll ad played prior to playback of the digital content a mid roll ad played during the playback of the digital content where the playback of the digital content is stopped for the mid roll ad to be played a post roll ad played after the play back of the media content and an overlay ad played during playback of the media content however the ad is an animation or text laid over a portion of the digital content during playback of the digital content . In another example the ad identifier associated with the digital content specifies whether a live stream may be played as a pre roll ad displayed to the user prior to playback of the digital content.

The client device requests digital content by accessing a uniform resource identifier URI typically a uniform resource locater URL corresponding to the digital content. In one embodiment the URI includes a domain associated with the content server and a content identifier identifying the digital content requested by the client device . Based on the content identifier the video serving module retrieves videos from the content store and makes them available to the client device via the content interface for example.

The content interface presents the digital content to users of the client device via an application or browser executing on the client device . In one embodiment the content interface presents the user with an interface via which the user may interact with a live stream presented to the user as a pre roll ad. In one embodiment the interface includes a set of controls allowing the user to manipulate the playback of the live stream as well as allowing the user to redirect to the live stream or skip and continue to a video requested by the user. For example the user interface includes controls for pausing rewinding or fast forwarding through a live stream presented to the user as an ad or as a pre roll ad. In another example the user interface may include a control for skipping over the live stream pre roll ad to the video requested by the user. In one instance the control for skipping over the live stream pre roll ad may be available to the user after the buffered live stream has been viewed by the user for a threshold period of time. For example the user may have to view the live stream ad for 5 seconds prior to being able to interact with the control to skip over the remaining portion of the live stream pre roll ad to the video requested by the user. The user interface may also include a control for redirecting the user to the live stream of the live event being captured by the content distributor .

In one embodiment the content interface provides a user interface to content distributors using which a content distributor may select publishing information to include with the live stream created by or recorded by the content distributor . The user interface provided to the content distributor may include a set of filters input fields or options that the content distributor may enter or select to specify information to include in the publishing information. Examples of information that may be included in the publishing information include information specifying the time period during which the live stream may be promoted the demographic of users to whom the content distributor would like to provide the live stream or whether or not the live stream may be served as an ad or a pre roll ad to users of the content server . The user interface may be provided to the content distributor as the content distributor creates the live stream or any time during which the live stream is transmitted to the content server . This allows the content distributor to modify the restrictions or limitations associated with the live stream before or during the transmission of the live stream to the content server .

The video search module enables a user to search for videos meeting one or more specified criteria or which are related to other videos the user has viewed promoted by the video hosting site and the like.

The live stream module receives a live stream from a content distributor via a media capturing device and prepares the live stream to be served to users of the content server or to be promoted and served as an ad to users of the content server as described in greater detail in conjunction with and below. In one embodiment the live stream module transcodes the live stream into multiple transcoded versions of the live stream thereby allowing the content server to transmit or serve the live stream to users with client devices having different decoding capabilities and different video player compatibilities. The live stream module may buffer the live stream for a threshold period of time to be served to a user. For example the buffered live stream may be served to the user as an advertisement or the buffered live stream may be served to users interested in watching the live event. The buffered live stream may be stored in either the ad store or the content store . In one embodiment the live stream module stores the live stream in the content store . This allows users who were not able to view the live stream at the time of the live event to retrieve and view the live stream after the completion of the live event.

In one example the live stream module generates a live stream ad based on the publishing information received from the content distributor . In another example the live stream module serves live streams as a pre roll ad prior to displaying a video requested by a user. Serving a live stream as a pre roll ad is an effective way of making users of the content server aware of a live event the user may be interested in viewing occurring at the time the user is displayed the live stream pre roll ad. Furthermore users may interact with the live stream ad to redirect to the live stream for example. In one embodiment the live stream ad generator determines whether to serve a live stream as a pre roll ad based on metadata associated with the requested video. For example the content server receives a request for a video from a client device . The live stream module retrieves metadata associated with the requested video and identifies from the metadata that a live stream ad is to be served to the user along with the requested video. The live stream module then retrieves a buffered live stream stored in the ad store and provides the video serving module with the buffered live stream to be served as a live stream ad along with the requested video to the client device . In the following examples live streams are discussed as being served as pre roll ads however live streams or portions of live streams may also be served as mid roll post roll or overlay ads in other embodiments.

The live stream module may store buffered portions of a live stream in the ad store . Buffering the stream allows the content server to provide the user viewing the live stream as a pre roll ad a smooth and desirable viewing experience. Buffering refers to storing a portion of the live stream for a time interval. The live stream module may retrieve a buffered live stream or a portion of a buffered live stream from the ad store to be served to a user as a live stream ad. The ad store stores ads of different kinds as well as advertising creatives. Ad store also stores information related to each advertiser such as account information and credentials and campaign preferences for any advertising campaigns in which the advertiser is involved. In one embodiment the ad store stores metadata associated with each ad identifying whether the ad is one or more of a pre roll mid roll post roll or overlay ad. The ad store may also store metadata associated with live stream ads including the publication information associated with the live stream ad.

The server links the content server via the network to the client devices as well as to the content distributor . The server serves web pages application content or instructions as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The server may receive uploaded content items from the one or more client devices . Additionally the server communicates instructions from the content interface for viewing digital content and for processing received input from a user of a client device to the respective component of the content server for processing. Additionally the server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS. In the examples that follow the server is described as providing the client device with web pages for display to the user however the server may also provide an application installed on the client device with content to display to the user.

In one example live stream module buffers the live stream in live stream ad buffer . The portion of the live stream stored in live stream ad buffer is dependent on the needs of the implementer and may vary for example based on the amount of storage available to be dedicated to buffer storage. The buffered live stream is presented to a user of content server as a live stream ad. In one embodiment live stream module stores an indicator in ad store indicating that a portion of the live stream is buffered in live stream ad buffer and is available for presentation to a user as a live stream ad. In another example live stream module also buffers the live stream in live stream content buffer which in various embodiments may be the same or a different buffer than live stream ad buffer and may be of larger or smaller size. The portion of the live stream stored in live stream content buffer is then presented to users interested in viewing the live stream as the live event is being captured by the content distributor . In some embodiments users interested in viewing different portions of the live stream such as portions of the live event that may have already occurred may view or seek back to those portions stored in the live stream content buffer via a user interface provided to the users. For example a user being shown a live stream ad may be redirected to the content in the live stream content buffer to seek back two minutes by using controls displayed as part of the player displaying the live stream ad. In a third example the transcoded live stream may be stored in the content store and presented to users interested in viewing the live stream at a time after the live event has occurred or has been completed.

As the live stream is received by the content server the content server in one embodiment transcodes the live stream to create multiple versions of the live stream. Transcoding refers to the conversion of one encoding to another. Transcoding the live stream into multiple transcoded versions of the live stream allows the content server to transmit or serve the live stream to users with client devices having different encoding capabilities and different video player compatibilities. Apart from creating versions of different formats or encoding the content server may create different transcoded version of the live stream each having a different resolution quality. For example for a received live stream the content server creates different versions of the live stream each version with one of the following resolutions qualities 144p 240p 360p 480p 720p and 1080p. Depending on the viewing capabilities of client device content server can then select the most appropriate version of the content to stream to the device from among the various transcoded streams.

Content server buffers the transcoded live input stream. Buffering the stream allows the content server to provide the user viewing the live stream as a pre roll ad a smooth and desirable viewing experience. Buffering refers to storing a portion of the live stream for a time interval. Buffering the live input stream allows the content server to account for the difference between the rate at which the data is received by the content server and the rate at which the transcoded live input stream is served to a client device thereby allowing a user to view the live input stream as a pre roll ad for example without any interruptions as the input stream is transmitted to the client device . In on embodiment the content server buffers each transcoded version of the live stream by storing video frames or portions of the live stream over a threshold time interval e.g. 2 minutes in the ad store . In another embodiment the content server removes the oldest buffered live stream frame from the buffer on receiving a new frame or portion of the live input stream from the content distributor.

In another embodiment the content server begins buffering content from the content distributor based on the time information present included in the publishing information provided by the content distributor . For example the content distributor may indicate that a live stream be buffered or published from 10 00 am to 11 00 am. The content distributor may begin buffering the live stream received from the content distributor at 10 00 am and may stop buffering the live stream at 11 00 am. Further the entire live stream or buffered portions of the live stream may be stored in the ad store or the content store for later use by the content server . For example on receiving an interaction from the user with respect to a control presented to the user via a user interface as the user views a live stream ad to go back prior to the time period at which the content server began buffering the live stream the content server retrieves either a buffered version or a stored version of the live stream associated with a time interval prior to the time period at which the content server began buffering the live stream to present to the user. The content server may also redirect the user away from the live stream ad presented to the user to an interface displaying the retrieved stored version of the live stream for the user to view.

Based on the video identifier the content server identifies the requested video in the content store and identifies metadata associated with the requested video. In one embodiment the content server identifies metadata specifying whether a pre roll ad is to be served to the user prior to playback of the requested video and whether the pre roll ad may be a live stream ad. In addition to identifying the type of ad to be served to the user along with the requested video the content server may also identify other metadata associated with the video such as the frame rate at which the video should be served.

Based on the metadata associated with the type of ad to be served with the video the content server identifies a buffered live stream to present to the user as a pre roll ad. For example the content server identifies a buffered live stream to serve the user based on characteristics associated with the user such as the demographic of the user or previous videos in which the user has expressed interest or viewed. In another example the content server identifies a live stream to serve the user based on the type or characteristics of the video requested by the user. For instance the content server may serve the user a buffered live stream of a live event including a band of the same genre as that of a music video requested by the user. The buffered live stream portion served to the user as an advertisement may represent the most recent content of the live event captured by the content distributor or may represent content of the live event previously captured by the content distributor and provided to the content server . In a third example the content server identifies a buffered live stream to serve to the requesting user based on the location of the user. The content server may select a buffered live stream of a live event occurring at a location within a threshold distance of the user to serve to the user as a pre roll ad. The content server may select a buffered live stream to serve to the user based on the user s geographic location as indicated by the metadata associated with the requested video or the publishing information associated with the live stream. In one example the content server selects a buffered live stream to serve to a user as a pre roll ad if the user is located in the United States of America and selects a pre roll ad which is not a live stream to serve to a user located in Brazil.

In a fourth example the content server identifies a buffered live stream to serve to the user based on the publishing information associated with the live stream. For example the publishing information specifies a time interval within which the buffered live stream may be served as an ad to a user. The content server only serves the buffered live stream to the requesting user if the request for a video is made by the user during the time interval included in the publishing information. In one embodiment the content server identifies a set of buffered live streams generated within a time interval of receiving the request for a video from the client device . The content server may select one of the buffered live streams from the set of buffered live streams to present to the user as a pre roll ad.

The content server serves the buffered live stream to the requesting client device or user in one example to be viewed as a pre roll ad prior to playback of the video requested by the user. In one example the content server serves the buffered live stream via a content interface or a web page generated by the server . In one example in addition to serving the user the buffered live stream as a pre roll ad the content server provides the client device with a user interface to present to the user. In one embodiment the user interface includes a variety of functions which when interacted with by the user may affect the playback of the buffered live stream or triggers events that may occur during or after playback of the buffered live stream or a portion of the buffered live stream. For example as shown in the user interface includes controls for pausing rewinding or fast forwarding through the buffered live stream. In another example the user interface may include a control such as a control labelled Skip Ad for skipping the live stream pre roll ad to the video requested by the user. In one instance the control for skipping the live stream pre roll ad may be available to the user after the buffered live stream has been viewed by the user for a threshold period of time. The user interface may also include a control such as a control labelled Watch Live Stream for redirecting the user to the live stream of the live event being captured by the content distributor . The user interface may also include an indicator labelled Live in this example for identifying whether the current portion of the live stream being viewed by the user is live. In the above examples live streams are discussed as being served as pre roll ads however live streams or portions of live streams may also be served as mid roll post roll or overlay ads in other embodiments.

In one embodiment the content server measures the user s interactions with the live stream pre roll ad or the user interface presented to the user along with the live stream pre roll ad. For example in addition to providing the user with controls to interact with the live stream ad the user interface may measure and record the interactions made by the user with respect to the live stream ad. For example the content server determines if the user interacted with a control presented by the user interface such as the control to skip the live stream pre roll ad and stores the information identifying the interaction as metadata associated with the buffered live stream ad in the ad store . The content server may then at a later time use the measured interactions to perform a variety of functions. For example the content server based on the interactions of the user with one or more live stream ads determines if the user prefers viewing live stream ads over conventional ads or whether the user is responsive to live stream ads. For example if a user has previously interacted with a variety of controls associated with live stream pre roll ads the content server may actively serve the user with live stream pre roll ads on receiving requests from the user to view videos hosted by the content server .

The content server after displaying the live stream pre roll ad to the user shows or displays the video requested by the user. In one embodiment the server is configured to provide the user with a web page including the live stream pre roll ad followed by the video requested by the client device. In another embodiment the video requested by the user is immediately played back to the user on receiving an interaction with a control associated with the user interface of the live stream ad causing the user interface to skip playing the live stream ad and proceed with displaying the requested video to the user. In another embodiment the content server displays the requested video to the user after the live stream pre roll ad has played for a threshold time. For example the live stream pre roll ad plays for 30 seconds after which the video requested by the user is showed to the user. In one example on receiving a user interaction with the ad such as if the user clicks on the live stream ad the user may be redirected to the live stream or a web page displaying the live stream.

The client device the content server and the content distributor may be implemented using one or more computers. is block diagram illustrating an example computer usable to implement entities of the content sharing environment in accordance with one embodiment.

The computer includes at least one processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit coupled to a chipset . The chipset includes a memory controller hub and an input output I O controller hub . A memory and a graphics adapter are coupled to the memory controller hub and a display is coupled to the graphics adapter . A storage device keyboard pointing device and network adapter are coupled to the I O controller hub . Other embodiments of the computer have different architectures.

The storage device is a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD or a solid state memory device. The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The processor may include one or more processors having one or more cores that execute instructions. The pointing device is a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device and is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer . The graphics adapter displays digital content and other images and information on the display . The network adapter couples the computer to one or more computer networks e.g. network .

The computer is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein including presenting digital content playlist lookup and or metadata generation. As used herein the term module refers to computer program logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software.

The types of computers used by the entities of the content sharing environment can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power required by the entity. For example the content server might comprise multiple blade servers working together to provide the functionality described herein. The computers may contain duplicates of some components or may lack some of the components described above e.g. a keyboard a graphics adapter a pointing device a display . For example the content server run in a single computer or multiple computers communicating with each other through a network such as in a server farm.

Although the foregoing description has focused primarily on videos for purposes of providing a concrete illustration various embodiments may incorporate different types of digital content in different forms of playlists. In one embodiment the content server contains audio files in playlists which may be presented through an audio player instead of a video player. It should be noted that videos may contain audio files as well. As another embodiment the content server contains images and or animations organized in albums instead of playlists. Rather than using a video or an audio player these images and or animations may be presented in a slideshow which may contain auto play functionality e.g. the slideshow retrieves a next image or animation after a period of time . In yet another embodiment the digital content includes text which may be organized into textual collections e.g. chapters in a book installments in a short story series poems in an anthology . Digital content may include combinations of video audio images animations and or text.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. To implement these operations the content server may use a non transitory computer readable medium that stores the operations as instructions executable by one or more processors. Any of the operations processes or steps described herein may be performed using one or more processors. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the embodiments. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Additional alternative structural and functional designs may be implemented for a system and a process for a content sharing environment. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

