---

title: System and method for determining rotation invariant feature descriptors for points of interest in digital images
abstract: A system and method for determining rotation invariant feature descriptors for points of interest in digital images for image matching are disclosed. In one embodiment, a point of interest in each of two or more digital images is identified. Further, the digital images are transformed to change location of the point of interest in each of the digital images to a principal point. Furthermore, a rotation invariant feature descriptor is determined for the point of interest in each of the transformed digital images for image matching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361694&OS=09361694&RS=09361694
owner: ITTIAM SYSTEMS (P) LTD.
number: 09361694
owner_city: Bangalore, Karnataka
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140814
---
Benefit is claimed under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Indian Provisional Patent Application Ser. No 3272 CHE 2014 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING ROTATION INVARIANT FEATURE DESCRIPTORS FOR POINTS OF INTEREST IN DIGITAL IMAGES by ITTIAM SYSTEMS P LTD. filed on Jul. 2 2014.

Embodiments of the present subject matter relate to digital image processing and computer vision. More particularly embodiments of the present subject matter relate to determination of rotation invariant feature descriptors for points of interest in digital images.

Generally many vision based applications require finding matching points of interest across digital images of a scene or an object captured at different camera positions and or orientations. The points of interest can be points sets of points lines segments edges corners blobs or regions. The points of interest can also be a group of pixels. For example in panorama image registration requires points of interest to be matched across digital images.

Existing approaches extract the points of interest having high repeatability from the digital images. That is the probability that same sets of points of interest extracted from different digital images is high. Further the existing approaches form a feature descriptor substantially around each point of interest based on its neighborhood pixels to enable comparison and matching of the points of interest. Typically a feature descriptor requires ensuring that same point of interest in different digital images is described in a similar way with respect to a similarity measure which may include distinctiveness i.e. different points of interest result in different feature descriptors and also require invariance to changes in viewing direction rotation changes in illumination and or image noise.

However the existing approaches assume that all digital images are captured in an upright camera orientation and therefore may not address the problems associated with changes in orientation. Consequently this may result in higher probability of mismatches. Further using the feature descriptor determined by the existing approaches may lead to higher mismatches when digital images contain multiple congruent or near congruent points of interest for example four corners of a symmetric window or individual dartboard sections.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follow.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the present subject matter references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the present subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

Embodiments described herein provide methods techniques and systems for determining rotation invariant feature descriptors for points of interest in digital images. For example the digital images are images of a scene or an object captured at different orientations and or view angles. The proposed technique extracts points of interest in each digital image. Further each digital image corresponding to each point of interest is transformed to change location of the point of interest to a principal point. The principal point is a point where a principal axis meets an image plane. Furthermore an in plane rotation invariant feature descriptor is determined for each point of interest in each of the transformed digital images for image matching.

At block the digital images are transformed to change location of the point of interest in each digital image to a principal point. In other words the points of interest in the digital images are transformed from an associated image plane to a common hypothetical image plane. The hypothetical image plane is an image plane formed in such a way that a line between the camera center and an object point i.e. an original point in the scene or the object is the optical axis of a camera. For example a point of interest in different image planes is shown with reference to .

In one example implementation pan and tilt angles to be applied for the point of interest in each digital image to change the location of the point of interest to the principal point are determined. Further the digital images are transformed using the associated pan and tilt angles. In other words the points of interest in the digital images transform to the principal point when the pan and tilt angles are applied. In one example the pan angle is applied around a point of interest or on a digital image and then the tilt angle is applied around the point of interest or on the digital image. In this example transformation of the digital image using the pan and tilt angles can be written using an equation 

In another example the tilt angle is applied around the point of interest or on the digital image and then the pan angle is applied around the point of interest or on the digital image. In this example transformation of the digital image using the pan and tilt angles can be written using an equation 

At block a rotation invariant feature descriptor is determined for the point of interest in each transformed digital image for image matching. For example a rotation invariant feature descriptor is determined by forming a window of a predetermined size substantially around a point of interest. In one example implementation an in plane rotation invariant feature descriptor is determined for the point of interest in each transformed digital image. This feature descriptor is referred to as all rotation invariant feature descriptor. The all rotation invariant feature descriptors are feature descriptors formed around the points of interest which are pan tilt and roll invariant.

Referring now to which is a schematic diagram showing a point of interest in different image planes in the context of the present invention. As shown in an object point P is projected on two image planes i.e. an image plane and image plane of different orientations but with same camera centre O at points p and p . In other words two images an image and image are taken from same camera at different orientations and the points p and p are points of interest in the image and image respectively which belong to same point i.e. the object point P in a scene. Co ordinates of the points p and p are x y 1 and x y 1 respectively. The co ordinates of the points p and p are represented with a principal point as an origin in their respective image planes. Further as shown in pis an image of the object point P on a hypothetical image plane where an orientation of the camera is such that a line OP is an optical axis of the camera.

Referring now to which are schematic diagrams A C illustrating transforming digital images to a common hypothetical image plane such that rotation invariant feature descriptors of points of interest can be matched according to one embodiment. As shown in digital images A and B are images of a scene or an object captured using a camera with substantially same camera center. Particularly the digital image A is the image of the scene captured when an image plane of the camera is parallel to that of an image plane of the scene. The digital image B is the image of the scene captured when the camera is rotated by 15 degrees in all directions pan tilt and roll with respect to A.

Further points of interest A and B are identified in the digital images A and B respectively. Furthermore the digital images A and B are transformed to change location of the points of interest A and B respectively to a principal point. In addition a rotation invariant feature descriptor is determined for each of the points of interest A and B. In the example illustrated in feature descriptors A and B are feature descriptors of the point of interest A before and after performing the transformation. Similarly feature descriptors A and B are feature descriptors of the point of interest B before and after performing the transformation. As shown in the the rotation invariant feature descriptors B and B are pan and tilt invariant and are bound to be related with an in plane rotation. Even though it is explained with reference to one point of interest in each digital image one can envision that the present technique can be applicable to multiple points of interest in each digital image for image matching.

Referring now to which illustrates a computing system for determining rotation invariant feature descriptors for points of interest in digital images using the process described in according to one embodiment. and the following discussions are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which certain embodiments of the inventive concepts contained herein are implemented.

The computing system includes a processor memory a removable storage and a non removable storage . The computing system additionally includes a bus and a network interface . As shown in the computing system includes access to the computing system environment that includes one or more user input devices one or more output devices and one or more communication connections such as a network interface card and or a universal serial bus connection.

Exemplary user input devices include a digitizer screen a stylus a trackball a keyboard a keypad a mouse and the like. Exemplary output devices include a display unit of the personal computer a mobile device and the like. Exemplary communication connections include a local area network a wide area network and or other network.

The memory further includes volatile memory and non volatile memory . A variety of computer readable storage media are stored in and accessed from the memory elements of the computing system such as the volatile memory and the non volatile memory the removable storage and the non removable storage . The memory elements include any suitable memory device s for storing data and machine readable instructions such as read only memory random access memory erasable programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory hard drive removable media drive for handling compact disks digital video disks diskettes magnetic tape cartridges memory cards Memory Sticks and the like.

The processor as used herein means any type of computational circuit such as but not limited to a microprocessor a microcontroller a complex instruction set computing microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing microprocessor a very long instruction word microprocessor an explicitly parallel instruction computing microprocessor a graphics processor a digital signal processor or any other type of processing circuit. The processor also includes embedded controllers such as generic or programmable logic devices or arrays application specific integrated circuits single chip computers smart cards and the like.

Embodiments of the present subject matter may be implemented in conjunction with program modules including functions procedures data structures and application programs for performing tasks or defining abstract data types or low level hardware contexts. Machine readable instructions stored on any of the above mentioned storage media may be executable by the processor of the computing system . For example a computer program includes machine readable instructions capable for determining the rotation invariant feature descriptors for the points of interest in the digital images according to the teachings and herein described embodiments of the present subject matter. In one embodiment the computer program is included on a compact disk read only memory CD ROM and loaded from the CD ROM to a hard drive in the non volatile memory . The machine readable instructions cause the computing system to encode according to the various embodiments of the present subject matter.

As shown the computer program includes a feature descriptor determination module . For example the feature descriptor determination module can be in the form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium having the instructions that when executed by the computing system causes the computing system to perform the method described in .

In one embodiment the feature descriptor determination module obtains two or more digital images of a scene or an object captured at different orientations and or view angles. Further the feature descriptor determination module identifies a point of interest in each digital image. Furthermore the feature descriptor determination module transforms the digital images to change location of the point of interest in each of the digital images to a principal point. Also the feature descriptor determination module determines a rotation invariant feature descriptor for the point of interest in each transformed digital image for image matching. This is explained in more detailed with reference to .

In various embodiments the systems and methods described in propose a technique for determining rotation invariant feature descriptors for points of interest in digital images captured at different orientations and or view angles. Particularly the proposed technique transforms the digital images and then determines the rotation invariant feature descriptors for the points of interest in the transformed digital images. In the transformed digital images location of the point of interest is at a principal point. Therefore using the determined rotation invariant feature descriptors for image matching increases probability of matches.

Although certain methods systems apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. To the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

