---

title: Creation of high-pinning microstructures in post production YBCO coated conductors
abstract: A method comprising irradiating a polycrystalline rare earth metal-alkaline earth metal-transition metal-oxide superconductor layer with protons having an energy of 1 to 6 MeV. The irradiating process produces an irradiated layer that comprises randomly dispersed defects with an average diameter in the range of 1-10 nm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09543496&OS=09543496&RS=09543496
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09543496
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
The United States government has rights in this invention described herein pursuant to Contact No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention generally relates to high pinning microstructures and a method of creating these high pinning microstructures in post production YBCO coated conductors.

Coated conductors have many applications. A coated conductor includes a superconductor layer deposited over a flexible metal substrate and metal oxide buffer layers disposed between the superconductor layer and the flexible metal substrate. Coated conductor production line wires of hundreds of meters in length have been produced with critical current densities J of 3 MA cmat 77 K and self field. These materials exhibit a suppression of Jin magnetic fields especially in fields applied along the crystallographic c axis of the superconductor. This characteristic limits the applicability of these materials for applications that require operation in magnetic fields such as motors transformers generators solenoids and MRI systems.

One implementation relates to a polycrystalline rare earth metal alkaline earth metal transition metal oxide superconductor layer comprising uniformly distributed randomly dispersed defects with an average diameter in the range of 1 10 nm.

Another implementation relates to a method comprising irradiating a polycrystalline rare earth metal alkaline earth metal transition metal oxide superconductor layer with protons having an energy of 2 to 5 MeV. The irradiating process may produce an irradiated layer that comprises uniformly distributed randomly dispersed defects with an average diameter in the range of 1 10 nm.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the present disclosure may be set forth from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the present disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without further limiting the scope of the present disclosure claimed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

In some implementations a superconductor layer containing uniformly distributed randomly dispersed defects with an average diameter of 1 10 nm is provided. These randomly dispersed defects may induce an enhancement of the critical current density of the superconductor layer in a c axis applied magnetic field. The enhancement when the magnetic field is higher than 1.5 T may be more than 10 with respect to a reference superconducting layer of the same composition and microstructure in the absence of the randomly dispersed defects. According to another implementation the enhancement when the magnetic field is higher than 1.5 T may be more than 40 with respect to a reference superconducting layer of the same composition and microstructure in the absence of the randomly dispersed defects.

In other implementations a superconductor layer with a thickness of greater than 1 m containing a mixed pinning landscape is provided. The mixed pinning landscape may include randomly dispersed defects with an average diameter of 1 10 nm and at least one of metal oxide precipitates stacking faults columnar defects and twin boundaries. The superconductor layer may be disposed over a metal substrate.

In other implementations a superconductor film disposed over a substrate is provided. The superconductor film may be formed of a rare earth oxide metal alkaline earth metal transition metal oxide superconductor containing a mixed pinning landscape. The mixed pinning landscape may include randomly dispersed defects with an average diameter of 1 10 nm and at least one of metal oxide precipitates stacking faults columnar defects and twin boundaries. The superconductor layer may be disposed over a metal substrate.

In some implementations a method of introducing randomly distributed defects with an average diameter of 1 10 nm into a superconductor layer is provided. The superconductor layer may include at least one of metal oxide precipitates stacking faults columnar defects and twin boundaries prior to the introduction of the randomly distributed defects. The introduction of the randomly distributed defects may increase the critical current of the superconductor layer by greater than 10 at a temperature of 27 K in a magnetic field applied perpendicular to the plane of the superconductor layer. According to one implementation the introduction of the randomly distributed defects may increase the critical current of the superconductor layer by greater than 40 at a temperature of 27 K in a magnetic field applied perpendicular to the plane of the superconductor layer.

In other implementations a method of irradiating coated conductors containing a superconductor layer with protons having and energy of 2 5 MeV is provided. The irradiation may create randomly dispersed small defects in the superconductor layer in addition to pre existing defect structures present in the superconductor layer prior to the irradiation. The combination of the randomly dispersed small defects and the pre existing defect structure may produce a superconductor layer with a mixed pinning landscape that exhibits enhanced critical currents. The enhancement of the critical currents may be especially apparent in high magnetic fields.

In other implementations a method for enhancing the critical current of ready made production line coated conductors by inducing the formation of uniformly distributed randomly dispersed small defects is provided.

As utilized herein coated conductors are materials containing a polycrystalline superconductor layer disposed over a substrate containing a flexible metal film coated with at least one buffering metal oxide layer. The flexible metal film may be formed of any suitable metal containing material. According to one embodiment the flexible metal substrate is a nickel containing alloy.

A textured substrate may be provided. The substrate may include texture that is transferred to the superconductor layer. As utilized herein texture refers to a microstructure including crystal plane alignment. A high degree of crystal plane alignment in the superconductor layer allows the polycrystalline superconductor layer to exhibit single crystal like performance. The textured substrate may be the flexible metal film or one of the other layers described above. Alternatively the textured substrate may be a separate layer within the coated conductor.

The textured substrate may be produced by any appropriate process. According to one embodiment the textured substrate may be produced by a rolling assisted biaxially textured substrate RABiTS process. The RABiTS process includes the production of a biaxially textured metal film by a rolling assisted process. At least one oxide buffer layer is then provided on the textured metal film with the oxide buffer layer exhibiting the same biaxially textured microstructure as the metal film. A superconductor layer is then deposited over the oxide buffer layer. The oxide buffer layer prevents the diffusion of metal from the film to the superconductor layer. A typical RABiTS coated conductor structure is depicted in . The RABiTS coated conductor includes a metal film template oxide buffer layers a superconductor layer a metallic protective layer and a stabilizer layer .

According to another embodiment the textured substrate may be produced by a process including ion beam assisted deposition IBAD . The IBAD process includes the ion beam assisted deposition of a textured ceramic buffer layer over an untextured metal film. A superconductor layer is then deposited over the textured ceramic buffer layer. Additional buffer layers may be provided between the textured ceramic buffer layer and the superconductor layer and or between the metal film and the textured ceramic buffer layer. A typical IBAD coated conductor structure is depicted in . The IBAD coated conductor includes a metal film substrate a textured ceramic oxide buffer layer oxide buffer layers a superconductor layer a metallic protective layer and a stabilizer layer .

The superconductor layer may be deposited over the oxide buffer layer of the coated conductor structure by any suitable process. According to one embodiment the superconductor layer may be deposited by a metal organic deposition process. According to another embodiment the superconductor layer may be deposited by a pulsed laser deposition PLD reactive co evaporation RCE metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD electron beam deposition chemical vapor deposition CVD or sputtering process. The superconductor layer may have any appropriate thickness. According to one embodiment the superconductor layer has a thickness greater than 1 m. In another embodiment the superconductor layer has a thickness in the range of about 1 m to about 2 m. According to some embodiments the superconductor may have a thickness of less than about 5 m.

A protective metal layer may be deposited over the superconductor layer of the coated conductor for the purposes of protecting the superconductor layer. The protective metal layer may be any suitable metal containing material. According to one embodiment the protective metal layer is a silver layer. The protective layer may have any appropriate thickness. According to one embodiment the protective layer has a thickness of 3 m. Thinner protective layers may interact with the radiation beam to a lesser extent reducing the energy required for the beam to reach the superconductor layer. In one embodiment the protective layer may have a thickness of less than about 5 m. A stabilizer layer may be deposited over the protective metal layer. According to one embodiment the stabilizer layer may include copper. The stabilizer layer may have a thickness greater than 10 m. In one embodiment the stabilizer layer may be added after the superconductor layer is irradiated.

The superconductor layer may be formed of any appropriate superconductor. According to one embodiment the superconductor layer may be a rare earth metal alkaline earth metal transition metal oxide superconductor. According to one embodiment the superconductor layer may contain a superconductor with the general formula RE BaCuO where RE includes at least one rare earth metal and 0 x 0.65. According to another embodiment the superconductor layer may contain a superconductor with the general formula RE BaCuO where RE includes at least one rare earth metal. In one embodiment RE may include yttrium producing a superconductor layer of the general formula YBaCuO YBCO . While the superconductor layer will be referred to herein as a YBCO superconductor layer for the purposes of convenience the methods discussed in this application apply equally to other appropriate superconductor materials. In some cases RE may be a mixture of two or more rare earth metals.

The superconductor layer may also include a dopant in addition to the primary rare earth metal. The dopant may be a rare earth metal. According to one embodiment a YBCO superconductor layer may include a dysprosium dopant. The dopant may be present in an amount of up to 75 relative to the primary rare earth metal. According to one embodiment the dopant is present in an amount of at least about 1 and at most about 50 of the primary rare earth metal.

The superconductor layer of the coated conductors may exhibit decreased critical current densities J when exposed to magnetic fields. The reduction of Jis a result of the formation of vortices in the superconductor material when a magnetic field is applied. When a current is passed through the superconductor vortices experience a Lorenz force that is proportional to the current. When the Lorenz force becomes sufficiently large vortices will move at which point Ohmic dissipation arises and the superconductor loses its superconducting properties. The current density at which the Lorenz force is large enough to set vortices in motion is referred to as the critical current density J. The value of Jas function of temperature and magnetic field determines the range of applications that can be realized with a specific superconducting material. In order to achieve high values of the critical current density flux pinning may be employed to prevent movement of the vortices.

Flux pinning may be achieved by the inclusion of defects in the superconductor material. The defects that are included in the superconductor material may be any suitable defect capable of pinning a vortex. Large defects that strongly pin vortices may be selected from metal oxide precipitates columnar defects stacking faults twin boundaries and combinations thereof. According to one embodiment the superconductor layer may include metal oxide precipitates with an average diameter of greater than 15 nm as large pinning defects. Large defects are capable of pinning the vortices that form under the application of a low magnetic field. As the magnetic field increases interstitial vortices that the large defects are not capable of strongly pinning begin to form within the superconductor material. The formation of weakly pinned interstitial vortices produces a reduction in the critical current density of the superconductor layer under the application of high magnetic fields.

The interstitial vortices formed in the superconductor material under the application of high magnetic fields may be pinned by the inclusion of small randomly dispersed defects in the superconductor material. The randomly dispersed defects may have an average diameter of 1 10 nm. According to one embodiment the randomly dispersed defects may have an average diameter of 2 5 nm. The randomly dispersed defects may be uniformly distributed throughout the superconductor material including being uniformly distributed throughout the thickness of the superconductor material. The randomly dispersed defects may be point defects clusters of point defects and small collision cascades. According to one embodiment the randomly dispersed defects may be anisotropic. The anisotropic randomly dispersed defects may exhibit a plate like structure.

The superconductor layer may include a mixed pinning landscape that includes both large defects and small randomly dispersed defects. A mixed pinning landscape allows a superconductor to benefit from both the low magnetic field strong pinning behavior of large defects and the high magnetic field interstitial vortex pinning capabilities of randomly dispersed defects. depicts a schematic representation of a mixed pinning landscape in which vortices are pinned by both large defects and randomly dispersed defects . According to one embodiment a mixed pinning landscape may include randomly dispersed defects having an average diameter of 1 10 nm and at least one of metal oxide precipitates columnar defects stacking faults and twin boundaries. There may be an optimum concentration of the randomly dispersed defects such that the enhancement of critical current density is at a maximum. The optimum concentration may depend on the desired operating temperature and the pre existing defect structure of the superconductor layer prior to irradiation. The enhancement of the critical current density generally increases with increasing concentration of the randomly dispersed defects. At very high randomly dispersed defect concentrations the critical temperature and the superconducting cross section that carries the current will be reduced producing a reduction in the critical current density.

The formation of large defects in the superconductor material may be achieved in coated conductor production through any suitable process. According to one embodiment the large defects may be formed by the precipitation of oxide nanoparticles. The oxide nanoparticles may be rare earth oxide precipitates. The nanoparticles may have the general formula REOwhere RE is at least one rare earth oxide. In one embodiment RE may be a mixture of the primary rare earth metal and a dopant. According to one embodiment the nanoparticles may have a diameter of about 100 nm or less such as a diameter in the range of about 10 nm to about 100 nm. Barium zirconate BZO nanoparticles may be precipitated in YBCO coated conductors and self assembled to form nanorods with sizes that closely match those of superconducting vortices. According to another embodiment the large defects may be formed by altering the chemical precursors and the deposition and film growth conditions employed in the fabrication of coated conductors.

The randomly dispersed defects may be formed by irradiation of a coated conductor with medium energy protons. According to one embodiment the medium energy protons may be protons with an energy of about 1 MeV to about 6 MeV such as about 2 MeV to about 5 MeV. In the case that the energy of the protons is too low the protons may not travel far enough in to the superconductor layer to produce uniformly distributed randomly dispersed defects. In the case that the energy of the protons is too high undesired nuclear activation may occur. According to an alternative embodiment the randomly dispersed defects may be formed by irradiation with neutrons or ions such as Au Ar or Ag ions. In one embodiment the irradiation may take place along the crystallographic c axis of the superconductor layer of the coated conductor. The irradiation may be successfully carried out through a metallic protective layer of the coated conductor that is disposed over the superconductor layer. The irradiation method may be applied to ready made production line coated conductors to produce randomly dispersed defects without the modification of the precursor chemistry or film growth conditions of the coated conductors.

The irradiation fluence may be at least 1.5 10p cm. According to one embodiment the irradiation fluence may be in the range of 1.5 10p cmto 30 10p cm. The concentration of the randomly dispersed defects may be influenced by the irradiation fluence and microstructure of the coated conductor. According to one embodiment the concentration of the randomly dispersed defects may be on the order of about 2 10cmafter irradiation with 3.5 MeV protons to a fluence of 2 10p cm.

The p beam currents employed in the irradiation process may be any appropriate amount. The p beam current may be selected to prevent the temperature of the coated conductor from exceeding 200 C. during the irradiation process. In one embodiment the p beam current is selected to prevent the temperature of the coated conductor from exceeding 100 C. during the irradiation process. According to one embodiment a coated conductor that is not actively cooled during irradiation is subjected to a p beam current of 250 nA or less. According to another embodiment a coated conductor is cooled while being irradiated by a p beam current of up to 1 A. The cooling may be achieved by mounting the coated conductor on a cooled sample mounting stage. In yet another embodiment p beam currents in the range of 200 to 300 nA may be employed.

The irradiation process allows the addition of randomly dispersed defects to a superconductor with a pre existing defect structure. This allows the creation of large defects and randomly dispersed defects in a coated conductor independently and synergistically for the formation of a mixed pinning landscape. The irradiation process may be employed to treat production line YBCO coated conductors in a continuous process. According to one embodiment the irradiation process may be a continuous process utilizing a roll to roll or reel to reel system.

The increased critical currents of the coated conductors produced as a result of the irradiation process render them especially suitable for use in applications subject to an applied magnetic field. The irradiated coated conductors may be employed in motors transformers generators magnet systems and solenoids. According to one embodiment the irradiated coated conductors may be employed in a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI system.

Samples of coated conductors were produced that included a YBCO film deposited by metal organic deposition onto rolling assisted biaxially textured substrates. The YBCO film was Dy doped and had a nominal thickness of 1.2 m calculated on the basis of a YBCO coating of 7200 mg cmand excluding porosity and DyO. The coated conductors included a 3 m thick layer of Ag protecting the YBCO film. Unless otherwise stated the samples were irradiated with 4 MeV protons along the normal of the YBCO film plane c axis at p beam currents of 200 to 300 nA. The YBCO film included rare earth oxide precipitates having the general formula REOwhere RE is a mixture of Y and Dy and diameters of several tens of nanometers.

The irradiation of the samples to a fluence of 8 10p cmprovides a near doubling of the critical current in fields of 6 T along the c axis at a temperature of 27 K over the already high I values of the coated conductors. The irradiated samples at a temperature of 27 K exhibit a critical current of 938 A cm w J 7.8 MA cm in a field of 3 T along the c axis and 634 A cm w J 5.3 MA cm in a field of 6 T along the c axis. By comparison a non irradiated sample at a temperature of 27 K exhibits a critical current of 350 A cm w J 2.9 MA cm in a field of 6 T along the c axis and does not reach 600 A cm w at temperatures above about 12 K. The irradiation of YBCO coated conductors with high energy 142 MeV protons produced a reduction of the critical current at 77 K in zero applied field and at 77 K in a field of 1 T that grows in proportion to proton fluence. Similarly irradiation with low energy protons 0.18 MeV results in a decrease in critical current at 77 K in a self field and at 30 K in a field of 1 T with increasing proton fluence between 10and 10p cm.

Other non irradiated samples were investigated as a comparison to the irradiated samples. A 1.55 m thick Gd doped YBCO film that contained BZO precipitates exhibited a critical current density of 5 MA cmin a 6 T magnetic field applied along the c axis at a temperature of 4.2 K. A 0.6 m thick BZO containing film on an IBAD type substrate exhibited a critical current density of 2 MA cmin a 6 T field applied along the c axis at a temperature of 40 K. A Y Gd Oprecipitate containing YBCO film with a thickness of 2.8 m on an IBAD type substrate yielded a critical current density of 0.9 MA cmin a 6 T field applied along the c axis at a temperature of 40 K. A film grown in a modified Zr doping process yielded a critical current density of 5 MA cmin a 6 T field applied along the c axis at a temperature of 30 K. Thus the irradiated samples compare favorably with other non irradiated materials.

The evolution of the critical current left y axis and critical current density right y axis with irradiation fluence in units of 10p cm and applied magnetic field is summarized in . Upon irradiation Iis systematically enhanced reaching 634 A cm w 5.3 MA cm in a field of 6 T along the c axis at 27 K. The log log plot of the data shown in reveals that in the field range of 1 T to 6 T Ifor all p irradiation fluences is well described by the relation I B. The data indicates that p irradiation minimizes the magnetic field induced suppression of I. Irradiation decreases the exponent from 0.75 for the reference sample to 0.52 after irradiation to a fluence of 8 10p cm.

As shown in the exponent decreases with increasing irradiation fluence. The plot in includes data for transport measurements at 27 K.

As shown in the beneficial effect of p irradiation is larger in high fields. depicts the evolution of critical current density Jwith irradiation fluence in an applied field of 6 T along the c axis at 27 K. The steady increase of Iwith proton fluence in indicates that further enhancements of Imay be achieved with an even higher proton irradiation fluence. A maximum for Jmay be achieved with fluences in the range of 15 10p cmto 50 10p cmfor 27 K operation. This result is in contrast to single crystals of YBCO for which depending on the measurement temperature irradiation fluences of 1 10p cmto 5 10p cmwere found to produce a maximum enhancement of I.

A precise knowledge of the local thickness of the sample is required to establish the defect density of the irradiate samples. However an order of magnitude estimate may be obtained from previous results on single crystals which yielded a concentration of 2 10cmfollowing irradiation with 3.5 MeV protons to a fluence of 2 10p cm. The defect formation may strongly depend on the pre existing microstructure which is very complex for coated conductors.

The images in correlate to a model of a mixed pinning landscape composed of large strong pin sites in the form of rare earth oxide precipitates and possibly twin boundaries in addition to a large number of weak small irradiation induced defects. For the reference sample at low fields all vortices are strongly pinned and Iis approximately field independent. With increasing field Iis expected to initially vary approximately as Band when interstitial vortices appear as B. The experimental data roughly follows this trend although does not reach the value of 1. The low field critical current does not significantly increase upon p irradiation because all vortices are already strongly pinned at low field. However with increasing field the randomly dispersed irradiation induced defects effectively pin interstitial vortices yielding the observed enhancement of Iin high magnetic fields.

The data shows a small but clear increase in S T as a function of irradiation fluence indicating sensitivity of the relaxation dynamics to the pinning landscape. Non irradiated metal organic deposition MOD produced YBCO films have a lower S particularly in the intermediate temperature plateau than other YBCO samples such as single crystals and films grown by pulsed laser deposition PLD an effect attributed to the larger pinning energy of the oxide precipitates. The increase in S T upon irradiation may be explained by the assumption that in the non irradiated samples pinning at intermediate temperatures and fields in the range of a few Tesla is mostly due to the oxide precipitates while irradiation adds point and small cluster defects with a smaller characteristic glassy exponent and hence a higher plateau S T 1 . The increase in S is also consistent with the decrease in the n value based on the approximate relation S 1 n 1 valid when the broadening of the E I curves is mainly due to flux creep.

While parameter values such as the optimum irradiation dose may depend on the specifics of the superconducting sample such as its pre existing defect structure the beneficial effect of the small finely dispersed defects on vortex pinning in high magnetic fields is a generic feature of the structure of the randomly dispersed defect and is embodied in the decrease of the exponent with increasing concentration of the defects. These benefits are realized as soon as the randomly dispersed defects are introduced into the coated conductor independent of both the means of their creation and the pre existing microstructure of the superconductor. shows the effect of various irradiation protocols on the critical current. Irradiation with 250 MeV Au ions to a fluence of B 3 T corresponding to 1.5 10ions cm produced linear defects in the form of columns oriented along the direction of irradiation. The pinning effect of these columnar defects is most pronounced at low intermediate fields. The randomly dispersed defects produced by subsequent irradiation with 4 MeV protons to a fluence of 4 10p cmincreased critical current in high fields similarly to the increase observed when the sample is irradiated with only 4 MeV protons to a fluence of 8 10p cm. Thus the beneficial effect of the randomly dispersed defects arises independently of the presence of other defects. As shown in the mixed pinning landscape that includes a combination of both types of defects increases the critical current over the entirety of the field range by approximately a factor of two.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for the sake of clarity.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

