---

title: Techniques, systems and machine readable programs for magnetic resonance
abstract: The present disclosure provides various methods and systems for performing magnetic resonance studies. In accordance with many embodiments, image or other information of interest is derived from super radiant pulses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09014785&OS=09014785&RS=09014785
owner: Millikelvin Technologies LLC
number: 09014785
owner_city: Braintree
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140224
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 844 446 filed Mar. 15 2013 published as US2013 0265048 which in turn is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 759 filed Sep. 20 2012 published as US2013 0253308 which in turn claims the benefit of priority of and is a continuation of International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 30384 filed Mar. 23 2012 published as WO 2012 129512 which in turn claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 466 500 filed Mar. 23 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 522 076 filed Aug. 10 2011. This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 844 446 filed Mar. 15 2013 published as US2013 0265048 which in turn claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 667 283 filed Jul. 2 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 706 100 filed Sep. 26 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 706 102 filed Sep. 26 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 706 106 filed Sep. 26 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 733 415 filed Dec. 4 2012. This patent application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 882 430 filed Sep. 25 2013. The disclosure of each of the aforementioned patent applications is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for any purpose whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates to improved techniques systems and machine readable programs for magnetic resonance imaging.

Traditionally NMR MRI MRS studies have always incorporated pulses of radiofrequency rf radiation. The role of the rf pulses is to excite the system under investigation into a temporary state of non equilibrium magnetization. As the system relaxes back to equilibrium it emits radiation which can then be used to form images and or extract information of scientific or diagnostic value such as physical state of the system quantity of a given molecule diffusion coefficients spectroscopic identification etc. A variety of rf pulse sequences designed to extract information of one kind or another in this manner are well described in the literature. There is a continuing need in the MRI art for advances that can increase the speed of imaging require less data storage and improve image quality. The present disclosure provides solutions for these problems.

Advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in and become apparent from the description that follows. Additional advantages of the disclosure will be realized and attained by the methods and systems particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as from the appended drawings.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the disclosure as embodied herein in one embodiment the disclosure provides a method of performing a magnetic resonance protocol. The method includes providing a magnetic resonance device including i a main magnet for providing a background magnetic field along a first direction ii at least one radio frequency coil and iii at least one gradient coil that can be controlled to define at least one region of interest. The method further includes defining a region of interest introducing a sample or subject to be studied into the region of interest and inducing electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of at least one set of nuclei within the sample or subject and at least one nearby resonant coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field to generate at least one electromagnetic pulse of transverse magnetization M. The method further includes detecting rf pulses from the sample or subject or with the at least one radio frequency coil. The method further includes usage of a feedback enabled coil FEC and an additional Supplementary Spin Reservoir SSR described more fully below as techniques for enabling feedback of nuclear magnetism to occur even under clinical MRI conditions where it normally would not.

In accordance with a further embodiment a method for performing quantitative analysis of the amount of a molecule in a sample or subject or subject is provided. The method includes providing a magnetic resonance device including i a main magnet for providing a background magnetic field along a first direction ii at least one radio frequency coil and iii at least one gradient coil that can be controlled to define at least one region of interest introducing into the MR device at least one SSR containing a plurality of molecules adjusting the circuitry of the resonant coil in order to induce electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of at least one set of nuclei within the SSR and the at least one nearby resonant coil to cause the system to achieve a desired relationship between R and T introducing RF pulses into the SSR so that the magnetization of at least one set of nuclei within the SSR is rotated to greater than ninety degrees analyzing the SR pulse that results from step e to determine the peaktime and width of the SR pulse introducing a sample or subject to be studied into the region of interest h introducing RF pulses into the sample or subject and the SSR so as to so that the magnetization of at least one set of nuclei within the SSR is rotated to the same angle as earlier i analyzing the SR pulse that results from step h to determine the peaktime and width of the new SR pulse j subtracting the pulse obtained in step f from that in step h to obtain quantitative information as to the amount of target molecule in the sample or subject.

In accordance with a further aspect a first radio frequency coil is used to introduce RF pulses into the sample or subject and a second radio frequency coil is used to induce electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of the set of nuclei of interest and the second radio frequency coil. In another embodiment the at least one radio frequency coil is used to introduce RF pulses into the sample or subject in a first selectable state and the at least one radio frequency coil is also used to induce electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of the set of nuclei of interest and the second radio frequency coil when in a second selectable state.

The disclosure also provides a method including providing a magnetic resonance device including i a main magnet for providing a background magnetic field along a first direction ii at least one radio frequency coil and iii at least one gradient coil that can be controlled to define a region of interest introducing a sample or subject to be studied into the region of interest introducing RF pulses into the sample or subject to energize nuclei in the sample or subject inducing electromagnetic feedback between a first set of nuclei in the sample or subject and the at least one radio frequency coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the first set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field while substantially preventing electromagnetic feedback from being induced between a second set of nuclei in the sample or subject and the at least one resonant coil activating a gradient magnetic field in the region of interest in order to destroy the magnetization associated with the first set of nuclei deactivating gradient employing RF pulses to rotate second set of nuclear magnetization to a desired angle detecting a signal relating to the pulse of transverse magnetization and processing the signal to form a data set relating to the presence of the second set of nuclei in the sample or subject.

If desired the method can further include processing information obtained from a plurality of pulses of transverse magnetization to produce at least one of i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data or v metabolic data. If desired the method can further include inducing electromagnetic feedback to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the second set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field and stopping the electromagnetic feedback to permit the second set of nuclei to permit the pulse of transverse magnetization to propagate. Electromagnetic feedback can be induced at least in part by substantially eliminating the presence of a gradient magnetic field in the at least one region of interest. Electromagnetic feedback can be induced at least in part by selectively tuning the at least one radio frequency coil to a predetermined resonant frequency. The sample or subject to be studied can be an in vivo sample or subject including fat and water and further wherein a pulse of transverse magnetization can be detected with the at least one radio frequency coil from protons in water and further wherein substantially no transverse magnetization may be detected with the at least one radio frequency coil from protons in fat.

A further method is also provided for performing a magnetic resonance protocol including providing a magnetic resonance device including i a main magnet for providing a background magnetic field along a first direction ii at least one radio frequency RF coil and iii at least one gradient coil that can be controlled to define at least one region of interest introducing a sample or subject to be studied into the device defining a region of interest from which to receive a SR pulse within the sample or subject by adjusting the magnetic field gradient in the region of interest to be substantially zero introducing RF pulses into the sample or subject to energize nuclei in the sample or subject inducing electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of a first set of nuclei within the sample or subject and the RF coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the first set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field to generate at least one electromagnetic pulse of transverse magnetization MXY wherein the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of a second set of nuclei outside of the region of interest does not substantially change when the at least one electromagnetic pulse is generated and detecting the pulse of transverse magnetization arising from the region of interest using an Rf coil.

If desired the method can further include processing information obtained from one or more pulses of transverse magnetization to produce at least one of i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data or v metabolic data. Electromagnetic feedback can be induced at least in part by selectively tuning the resonant coil to a predetermined resonant frequency.

The disclosure further provides a method for performing magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging including providing a magnetic resonance device including i a main magnet for providing a background magnetic field along a first direction ii at least one resonant feedback enabled coil and iii at least one gradient coil that can be controlled to define at least one region of interest introducing a sample or subject to be studied into the region of interest carrying out MR pulse sequence protocols to produce at least one of i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data or v metabolic data and adjusting the circuitry of the RF coil in order to induce electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of at least one set of nuclei within the sample or subject and the at least one resonant feedback enabled coil to cause at least one of i the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei within the sample or subject to rotate to a new desired angle with respect to the direction of the background magnetic field and ii the precessional frequency of at least one set of nuclei within the sample or subject to shift with respect to the precessional frequency of other nuclei in the sample or subject. It will be appreciated that all methods described herein have corresponding systems and machine readable programs as set forth herein and can be expressed as such.

In some implementations the method can further include processing information obtained from a plurality of pulses of transverse magnetization to produce at least one of i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data or v metabolic data. In some embodiments the electromagnetic feedback can be induced at least in part by substantially eliminating the presence of a gradient magnetic field in the at least one region of interest. The region of interest can include for example at least one voxel and the at least one gradient coil can be adapted and configured to apply a magnetic field gradient in at least one of three mutually orthogonal directions. The electromagnetic feedback can be induced at least in part by selectively tuning the resonant coil to a predetermined resonant frequency.

In further implementations the method can further include applying a RF pulse to the sample or subject in order to at least partially invert the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei prior to the inducing step. In some embodiments the magnetization vector of the at least one set of nuclei can be directed substantially entirely anti parallel to the first direction of the background magnetic field. The background magnetic field can be for example about 1.0 Tesla about 1.5 Tesla about 2.0 Tesla about 2.5 Tesla about 3.0 Tesla about 4.0 Tesla about 5.0 Tesla about 6.0 Tesla about 7.0 Tesla about 8.0 Tesla about 9.0 Tesla about 10.0 Tesla or greater or less in any desired increment of 0.1 Tesla. The vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei can be permitted to fully align with the first direction of the background magnetic field when the pulse is generated. If desired the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei can be permitted to partially align with the first direction of the background magnetic field when the pulse is generated. If desired the method can further include generating a plurality of pulses of transverse magnetization from the at least one set of nuclei by permitting the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to progressively and discretely approach full alignment with the first direction of the background magnetic field with each succeeding pulse of transverse magnetization.

In some implementations the inducing step can include inducing electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of a plurality of sets of nuclei in at least two discrete separated physical locations within the object and at least one nearby resonant coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetizations of each set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field to generate the at least one electromagnetic pulse of transverse magnetization.

In some implementations at least one of the at least one radio frequency coil and the at least one gradient coil is a local coil. Moreover at least one of the at least one radio frequency coil and the at least one gradient coil can be integrated into the magnetic resonance system. If desired the at least one radio frequency coil can be a whole body coil and can be used at background fields in excess of 3.0 Tesla. If desired the at least one radio frequency coil can be a whole body phased array transmit receive coil system having a plurality of coils that can selectively transmit and receive rf pulses of transverse magnetization. Moreover the at least one radio frequency coil can be a local phased array transmit receive coil system having a plurality of coils that can selectively transmit and receive rf pulses of transverse magnetization. If desired the at least one radio frequency coil can further include a plurality of local gradient coils for locally controlling the gradient magnetic field. If desired the at least one gradient field coil can include a plurality of gradient field coils integrated into the magnetic resonance system even if local gradient field coils are provided.

In further implementations a coil designed to amplify feedback can be employed. The coil can additionally and optionally be made to permit manipulation of the phase of the feedback field. This coil is referred to in this document as a Feedback Enabled Coil FEC .

In further implementations the method includes inserting a volume containing a plurality of molecules in the field of view FOV of either the resonant coil or the FEC. This volume termed the Supplementary Spin Reservoir SSR permits the production of feedback even under relatively low conditions of clinical MRI scanners. In addition by selecting the molecule or molecules inside the SSR the feedback field can be made to resonate at a desired frequency or set of frequencies.

In accordance with further aspects the disclosure provides systems for performing a magnetic resonance protocol. The system can include a magnetic resonance device including i a main magnet for providing a background magnetic field along a first direction ii at least one radio frequency coil and iii at least one gradient coil that can be controlled to define at least one region of interest. The system can further include means for defining a region of interest means for introducing a sample or subject to be studied into the region of interest and means for inducing electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of at least one set of nuclei within the sample or subject and at least one nearby resonant coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field to generate at least one electromagnetic pulse of transverse magnetization Mxy. The method can still further include means for detecting the pulse of transverse magnetization with the at least one radio frequency coil.

In some implementations the system can further include means for processing information obtained from a plurality of pulses of transverse magnetization to produce at least one of i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data and v metabolic data. If desired electromagnetic feedback can be induced at least in part by substantially eliminating the presence of a gradient magnetic field in the at least one region of interest by controlling the at least one gradient coil. The region of interest can include at least one voxel and the at least one gradient coil is adapted and configured to apply a magnetic field gradient in at least one of three mutually orthogonal directions. Electromagnetic feedback can be induced at least in part by selectively tuning the at least one rf coil to a predetermined resonant frequency. The system can selectively and controllably apply a RF pulse to the sample or subject in order to at least partially invert the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei prior to the inducing step. In some embodiments the system can be adapted to direct the magnetization vector of the at least one set of nuclei substantially entirely anti parallel to the first direction of the background magnetic field. The background magnetic field can be for example about 1.0 Tesla about 1.5 Tesla about 2.0 Tesla about 2.5 Tesla about 3.0 Tesla about 40.0 Tesla about 5.0 Tesla about 6.0 Tesla about 7.0 Tesla about 8.0 Tesla about 9.0 Tesla about 10.0 Tesla or greater or less in any desired increment of 0.1 Tesla. The system can be adapted to permit the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to fully align with the first direction of the background magnetic field when the pulse is generated. In some embodiments the system can be adapted to permit the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to partially align with the first direction of the background magnetic field when the pulse is generated. If desired the system can be further adapted to selectively and controllably generate a plurality of pulses of transverse magnetization at different times from the at least one set of nuclei by permitting the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to progressively and discretely approach full alignment with the first direction of the background magnetic field with each succeeding pulse of transverse magnetization.

In some implementations the system can be adapted to induce electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of a plurality of sets of nuclei in at least two discrete separated physical locations within the object and at least one nearby resonant coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetizations of each set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field to generate the at least one electromagnetic pulse of transverse magnetization. In some embodiments at least one of the at least one radio frequency coil and the at least one gradient coil can be a local coil. At least one of the at least one radio frequency coil and the at least one gradient coil can be integrated into the magnetic resonance system. The at least one radio frequency coil can be a whole body coil. The at least one radio frequency coil can be a whole body phased array transmit receive coil system having a plurality of coils that can selectively transmit and receive rf pulses of transverse magnetization. The at least one radio frequency coil can be a local phased array transmit receive coil system having a plurality of coils that can selectively transmit and receive rf pulses of transverse magnetization. At least one radio frequency coil can further include a plurality of local gradient coils for locally controlling the gradient magnetic field. The at least one gradient field coil can include a plurality of gradient field coils integrated into the magnetic resonance system as well as one or more local gradient coils if desired.

The disclosure further provides processor readable computer programs stored on a tangible non transient medium for operating a magnetic resonance protocol on a magnetic resonance device including for example i a main magnet for providing a background magnetic field along a first direction ii at least one radio frequency coil and iii at least one gradient coil that can be controlled to define at least one region of interest. The program can include instructions to facilitate definition of a region of interest instructions for inducing electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of at least one set of nuclei within the sample or subject and at least one nearby resonant coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field to generate at least one electromagnetic pulse of transverse magnetization M and instructions to facilitate processing signals received arising from the pulse of transverse magnetization with the at least one radio frequency coil.

The computer program can further include instructions for processing information obtained from a plurality of pulses of transverse magnetization to produce at least one of i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data and v metabolic data. The program can further include instructions to induce electromagnetic feedback by substantially eliminating the presence of a gradient magnetic field in the at least one region of interest by controlling the at least one gradient coil. The region of interest can include at least one voxel and the program can include instructions to cause the at least one gradient coil to apply a magnetic field gradient in at least one of three mutually orthogonal directions. The program can include instructions to induce electromagnetic feedback at least in part by selectively tuning the at least one rf coil to a predetermined resonant frequency. The program can similarly include instructions to cause the system to selectively and controllably apply a RF pulse to the sample or subject in order to at least partially invert the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei prior to inducing the electromagnetic feedback.

In some implementations the computer program can include instructions to cause the magnetic resonance system to direct the magnetization vector of the at least one set of nuclei substantially entirely anti parallel to the first direction of the background magnetic field. Similarly the computer program can include instructions to cause the magnetic resonance system to permit the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to fully align with the first direction of the background magnetic field when the pulse is generated. The computer program can include instructions to cause the magnetic resonance system to permit the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to partially align with the first direction of the background magnetic field when the pulse is generated.

In further implementations the computer program can further include instructions to cause the magnetic resonance system to selectively and controllably generate a plurality of pulses of transverse magnetization at different times from the at least one set of nuclei by permitting the vector direction of the nuclear magnetization of the at least one set of nuclei to progressively and discretely approach full alignment with the first direction of the background magnetic field with each succeeding pulse of transverse magnetization. The computer program can similarly include instructions to cause the magnetic resonance system to induce electromagnetic feedback between the nuclear magnetization of a plurality of sets of nuclei in at least two discrete separated physical locations within the object and at least one nearby resonant coil to cause the vector direction of the nuclear magnetizations of each set of nuclei to rotate to a desired angle with respect to the first direction of the background magnetic field to generate the at least one electromagnetic pulse of transverse magnetization.

In some implementations the computer program can include instructions to cause the magnetic resonance system to operate at least one radio frequency coil and at least one gradient coil that is a local coil. The computer program can include instructions to cause the magnetic resonance system to operate at least one radio frequency coil and at least one gradient coil that is integrated into the magnetic resonance system. The computer program can include instructions to operate a radio frequency coil that is a whole body phased array transmit receive coil system having a plurality of coils that can selectively transmit and receive rf pulses of transverse magnetization. If desired the computer program can include instructions to operate a radio frequency coil that is a local phased array transmit receive coil system having a plurality of coils that can selectively transmit and receive rf pulses of transverse magnetization. The computer program can similarly include instructions to operate at least one radio frequency coil that further includes a plurality of local gradient coils for locally controlling the gradient magnetic field.

It is to be understood that the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and are intended to provide further explanation of the disclosed embodiments. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute part of this specification are included to illustrate and provide a further understanding of the disclosed methods and systems. Together with the description the drawings serve to explain principles of the disclosure.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present preferred embodiments of the disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The methods and corresponding steps of the disclosed embodiments will be described in conjunction with the detailed description of the system.

Transforming to a reference frame rotating with the rf field at frequency with 2 gives the Bloch equations in the rotating frame of the rf field 

Defining m me will allow a separation of the Bloch equations into magnitude and phase for the transverse magnetization.

Note that the second equation with cos o suggests that the rf field frequency is locked to B. To see this solve for .

If we write msin where is known as the superradiant time it is clear from Equation 6 that where dm dt o is where T. This also defines the ambient conditions for superradiance to occur ie where Tthe dynamics of the magnetization are dominated by superradiance rather than ordinary relaxation.

A differential equation may be developed from Equation 6 . First make a substitution for dm dt to obtain 

Under SR conditions T the equation of motion of the magnetization for the longitudinal and transverse nuclear magnetizations are tan sech This produces a pulse of magnetization which peaks at time t 

Under appropriate conditions the nuclear magnetism from one or more molecules in a sample or subject contained in one or more resonant coils can be made to feedback upon itself. Under such conditions we describe these molecule s as being in the superradiant SR condition . The SR condition is defined as being where T. Clinical MR machines cannot normally produce the conditions necessary to produce T.

This disclosure teaches in addition to other teachings methods and systems for achieving the SR state even for low concentrations of molecules in otherwise clinical conditions. These teachings include use of a feedback enabled coil FEC so that the active Q of one or more resonant coils of the MR machine can be made very high. In addition we teach the use of an additional volume termed the Supplementary Spin Reservoir SSR which is inserted into the field of the MR device to ensure that one or more molecules in the MR device are in the SR condition.

Applicant has discovered methods of producing SR conditions in a localized volume in space. In a preferred embodiment this is done by turning off on increasing decreasing or changing in sign a local magnetic field gradient or gradients. Other embodiments for this include manipulating the probe Q e.g. by detuning the coil selectively frequency and or changing the parameters of the ambient magnetic field.

In the case where the gradient is sufficiently large such that T where T represents the time it takes for any Mxy to dephase due to the action of the gradient SR conditions are destroyed. In such an instance any longitudinal nuclear magnetization Mz remains locked in and undisturbed on time scales t

If the gradient is lowered such that TSR conditions are re established. Applicant has discovered that the transition from SR to non SR conditions ie where normal MR dynamics prevail can be quite sharp allowing the criteria for pulse production to be carefully controlled. By suppressing the gradient in a given region of space an SR pulse can be produced that originates from a predefined spatial location. It can therefore be assigned a definite spatial value which is essential to creating a resolved image.

Traditionally SR conditions have been suppressed by using a gradient or gradients that are temporally structures that is that turn on off in time. This suppresses or permits SR conditions in the entire volume located within the field of the resonant coil. Applicant has discovered that gradients can be spatially structured to allow SR conditions to exist in one part of a volume and suppressed in others. By careful manipulation of the nearby current coils the gradient can be made to be zero or very low sufficiently low to permit SR conditions in one voxel or other region of interest e.g. comprising multiple voxels while remaining large enough to deter SR conditions in the remaining fraction of the volume. By detecting the pulse resulting from SR conditions inside that one voxel its spatial location and spin content can be determined the region of zero gradient can then be moved to produce signal from other voxels so as to produce sufficient information to construct an image. This can be done sequentially or in parallel to speed image production.

When the gradient field is suppressed in a local voxel such that the total gradient o or is very low an SR pulse can propagate. This causes any local Mz to rotate into the transverse plane and produce Mxy. Mxy is processing at the Larmor frequency and hence can be detected by the MR pick up coils. Local conditions can be adjusted as a non exclusive example by turning on off a local gradient so as to nutate only part of the local Mz into the xy plane. In this manner additional Mz is available to produce pulses at a later time should that be desirable. Or all of the local Mz can be used up in a single pulse. The spatial identity of the pulse can be determined in a number of manners. As a non exclusive example this can be done by associating the zero point of the local gradient with a definite point or points in x y z. For example the gradient field can be set to about zero for individual voxels spaced from one another in order to speed data acquisition by engaging in parallel data collection.

Local voxel or voxels of zero or very low gradient field can be produced and moved about in space by adjusting currents in nearby shim coils that are typically part of any MR imaging system. Thus an entire image can be built by manipulating the shim coils. Multiple voxels can be produced contemporaneously for example by causing the shim coils to have a time dependent current Icos wt rather than a static current I. By adjusting the current frequency in various shims multiple local voxels of zero or low gradient can be produced either permanently or temporarily as desired. If desired a local coil can be provided surrounding or adjacent to a particular body part e.g. a head shoulder coil for neurovascular imaging a back coil knee coil breast coil etc. that includes the capability to receive Mpulses and that can optionally apply rf pulses and or gradient fields to provide a further means for control of the local gradient field in the region of interest.

Because Mxy is only produced in a region of low or zero gradient motion artifacts that plague traditional MR imaging can be reduced. Motion artifacts are produced when spins move in the high gradient fields used to produce images in traditional MR. As the spins move in the gradient they lose phase information which leads to image blurring. Producing pulses only in the region of low or zero gradient can be expected to suppress this phenomenon. Also SR pulses from are inherently phase randomized so there cannot be build up of phase errors as the image is produced voxel by voxel.

Applicant has further discovered that the phase of any Mx converted under SR conditions from local Mz to Mxy can be distinguished from the phase of spins outside the local voxel. This allows the use of phase locked loops or similar methods to amplify the Mxy signal arising from spins in the local voxel of interest.

Occasionally it is desirable to extract local Tinformation while producing an MR image or carrying out other kinds of MR studies. Tmapping can provide contrast between different types of tissue in particular between spins in solid dense matter such as bone and that in surrounding tissue.

Applicant has discovered that Tcontrast can be provided using the proposed technique. As a non exclusive example this can be done by adjusting the Q of the resonant coil used to nutate any Mz into Mxy. Assuming a low or zero gradient by increasing Q the time for an SR pulse to propagate can be made faster than local T. Conversely lowering Q can cause Tto be faster than the time required to produce an RD or SR pulse. In this circumstance no pulse can propagate. Thus regions of different T s can be distinguished by controlling the local field gradient and adjusting the Q of the pick up coil.

The above described techniques can all be used in conjunction with standard imaging methodologies. For example slice selective frequency encoding can be used to derive 2D information with the above technique providing third dimensional information.

An exemplary magnetic resonance system is depicted in and includes a plurality of primary magnetic coils that generate a uniform temporally constant magnetic field Balong a longitudinal or z axis of a central bore of the device. In a preferred superconducting embodiment the primary magnet coils are supported by a former and received in a toroidal helium vessel or can . The vessel is filled with helium to maintain the primary magnet coils at superconducting temperatures. The can is surrounded by a series of cold shields which are supported in a vacuum Dewar . Of course annular resistive magnets C magnets and the like are also contemplated.

A whole body gradient coil assembly includes x y and z coils mounted along the bore for generating gradient magnetic fields Gx Gy and Gz. Preferably the gradient coil assembly is a self shielded gradient coil that includes primary x y and z coil assemblies potted in a dielectric former and secondary x y and z coil assemblies that are supported on a bore defining cylinder of the vacuum Dewar . A whole body radio frequency coil can be mounted inside the gradient coil assembly . A whole body radio frequency shield e.g. copper mesh can be mounted between the whole body RF coil and the gradient coil assembly . If desired an insertable radio frequency coil can be removably mounted in the bore in an examination region defined around an isocenter of the magnet to. In the embodiment of the insertable radio frequency coil is a head and neck coil for imaging one or both of patient s head and neck but other extremity coils can be provided such as back coils for imaging the spine knee coils shoulder coils breast coils wrist coils and the like.

With continuing reference to an operator interface and control station is provided that includes a human readable display such as a video monitor and operator input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a trackball light pen or the like. A computer control and reconstruction module is also provided that includes hardware and software for enabling the operator to select among a plurality of preprogrammed magnetic resonance sequences that are stored in a sequence control memory if rf pulses are to be used as a part of the imaging study. A sequence controller controls gradient amplifiers connected with the gradient coil assembly for causing the generation of the Gx Gy and Gz gradient magnetic fields at appropriate times during the selected gradient sequence and a digital transmitter which causes a selected one of the whole body and insertable radio frequency coils to generate Bradio frequency field pulses at times appropriate to the selected sequence if rf pulses are to be used in the study.

MR signals received by the coil are demodulated by a digital receiver and stored in a data memory . The data from the data memory are reconstructed by a reconstruction or array processor into a volumetric image representation that is stored in an image memory . If a phased array is used as the receiving coil assembly the image can be reconstructed from the coil signals. A video processor under operator control converts selected portions of the volumetric image representation into slice images projection images perspective views or the like as is conventional in the art for display on the video monitor.

Typically a user or users e.g. which may be people or groups of users and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate operation of the system and information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the MKT controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices components of the magnetic resonance system an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network . For example the MKT controller may be connected to and or communicate with users e.g. operating client device s e.g. including but not limited to personal computer s server s and or various mobile device s including but not limited to cellular telephone s smartphone s e.g. iPhone Blackberry Android OS based phones etc. tablet computer s e.g. Apple iPad HP Slate Motorola Xoom etc. eBook reader s e.g. Amazon Kindle Barnes and Noble s Nook eReader etc. laptop computer s notebook s netbook s gaming console s e.g. XBOX Live Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation Portable etc. portable scanner s and or the like.

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The MKT controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effect communications operations storage etc. Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to a Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing MKT controller to determine its location Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS an Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications and or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the MKT controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed MKT embodiments mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the MKT implementations may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the MKT embodiments some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the MKT component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the MKT may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example MKT features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the MKT features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the MKT system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the MKT may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate MKT controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the MKT .

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the MKT thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the MKT controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed MKT architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the MKT controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices such as other components of the MR system including signal generators in communication with RF coils receivers in communication with RF coils the gradient coil system main magnet system and the like may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the MKT controller. Peripheral devices may also include antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added capabilities e.g. crypto devices force feedback devices e.g. vibrating motors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices transceivers e.g. cellular GPS etc. video devices e.g. goggles for functional imaging for example monitors etc. video sources visors and or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices e.g. cameras .

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the MKT controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory or etc. . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the MKT controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the MKT controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Nan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the MKT controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the MKT controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the MKT controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port 21 and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the MKT database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the MKT database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the MKT . In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the MKT as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the MKT enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the MKT .

Access to the MKT mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the MKT may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the MKT component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the MKT and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The MKT database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the MKT database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the MKT database is implemented as a data structure the use of the MKT database may be integrated into another component such as the MKT component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Users e.g. operators and physicians table may include fields such as but not limited to user id ssn dob first name last name age state address firstline address secondline zipcode devices list contact info contact type alt contact info alt contact type and or the like to refer to any type of enterable data or selections discussed herein. The Users table may support and or track multiple entity accounts. A Clients table may include fields such as but not limited to user id client id client ip client type client model operating system os version app installed flag and or the like. An Apps table may include fields such as but not limited to app ID app name app type OS compatibilities list version timestamp developer ID and or the like. A Patients table for patients associated with an entity administering the magnetic resonance system may include fields such as but not limited to patient id patient name patient address ip address mac address auth key port num security settings list and or the like. An MR Studies table may include fields such as but not limited to study  study name security settings list study parameters rf sequences gradient sequences coil selection imaging mode and or the like. An RF sequences table including a plurality of different rf pulse sequences may include fields such as but not limited to sequence type sequence id tip angle coil selection power level and or the like. A gradient sequences table may include fields relating to different gradient field sequences such as but not limited to sequence id Gx Gy Gz Gxy Gxz Gyz Gxyz field strength time duration and or the like. A raw MR data table may include fields such as but not limited to study id time stamp file size patient id rf sequence body part imaged slice id and or the like. A Images table may include fields such as but not limited to image id study id file size patient id time stamp settings and or the like. A Payment Legers table may include fields such as but not limited to request id timestamp payment amount batch id transaction id clear flag deposit account transaction summary patient name patient account and or the like.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the MKT platform. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the MKT system may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The MKT system may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The MKT database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the MKT database communicates with the MKT component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The MKT component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the MKT component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the MKT systems discussed in the figures of this disclosure. As such the MKT component affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The MKT component may transform raw data collected by the magnetic resonance system into at least one of i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data or v metabolic data among other things. In one embodiment the MKT component takes inputs e.g. digitized representations of Mxy signals produced by RD or SR pulses and transforms the inputs via various components of the system into outputs e.g. i an image ii dynamic flow data iii perfusion data iii spectroscopic identity of chemical species iv physiological data or v metabolic data among other things .

The MKT component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the MKT server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The MKT component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the MKT component communicates with the MKT database operating systems other program components and or the like. The MKT may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the MKT node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the MKT controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Jini local and remote application program interfaces JavaScript Object Notation JSON Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components.

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. JSON SOAP and or like parsers that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment.

For example in some implementations the MKT controller may be executing a PHP script implementing a Secure Sockets Layer SSL socket server via the information server which listens to incoming communications on a server port to which a client may send data e.g. data encoded in JSON format. Upon identifying an incoming communication the PHP script may read the incoming message from the client device parse the received JSON encoded text data to extract information from the JSON encoded text data into PHP script variables and store the data e.g. client identifying information etc. and or extracted information in a relational database accessible using the Structured Query Language SQL . An exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to accept JSON encoded input data from a client device via a SSL connection parse the data to extract variables and store the data to a database is provided below 

Also the following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application for MKT APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and or otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all disclosed embodiments. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a MKT individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the MKT may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization.

In various further aspects the disclosure provides further implementations of methods systems and machine readable programs that are related with the above disclosure.

One innovation disclosed herein is the use of certain SR conditions to sensitively detect the presence or lack thereof of a given molecule. NMR spectroscopy is well known in the art as a method of detecting the presence of a given molecule. The usual method for doing this is to put the sample or subject to be investigated a high field magnet with an associated NMR probe. Using well known NMR techniques the nuclear magnetism of the molecules in the sample or subject may be manipulated to produce frequency dependent spectra. These spectra can be compared to existing databases to determine the presence and concentration of a given molecule.

This works well when a the molecules of interest are soluble in a solvent suitable for use in an NMR study solid state spectroscopy is also possible but more limited in scope b there are sufficient molecules in solution to carry out the necessary NMR protocols c the molecules NMR spectrum is not too complicated and d there is sufficient time to carry out the necessary NMR studies. However in practice one of these factors often limits the applicability of NMR to identify the presence of a molecule.

In accordance with a further aspect of the disclosure embodiments are provided that overcome these drawbacks by exploiting properties of the superradiant condition. Specifically the disclosed embodiments permit the presence of a given molecule to be determined a at levels of concentration lower than those achievable and b more rapidly than using present day NMR. In addition the methods systems and programs apply equally well to solids as to liquids thus removing the limitation for high resolution NMR that the samples be in solution.

In ordinary NMR the frequency position of peaks in the spectra from various nuclei typically H C N etc do not depend on the number of nuclei present. That is the peaks may get larger with an increase in concentration of the molecule under investigation but they do not change their position in the frequency spectrum. By contrast the SR effect is a cooperative phenomenon. The peaktime width of the SR pulse changes depending on the number of identical nuclei in a given sample or subject.

Equation 20 in the previous section implies that that the width and peaktime of an SR pulse is a function of the resonant frequency of the nuclei in a molecule as well as its concentration. Furthermore in the limit where Ttis a strong function of which is in turn assuming all other variables are held constant a function of M N where N is the number of molecules in the FOV of the FEC. Thus under certain circumstances changing the number of molecules of a given species in a study FOV can produce very sensitive changes in the resultant SR pulse. As a non exclusive example a system of molecules that is held at or near the transition point between the normal and SR regimes is very sensitive to the addition of molecules of the same species.

Applicant has discovered that the transition from the normal MR regime where nuclear magnetization decays exponentially with time constant T and SR MR can be easily distinguished. For example near the SR transition the peaktime and width of the SR pulse are very sensitive to changes in nuclear magnetism . Nuclear magnetism is itself directly proportional to the number of spins present in the sample or subject so this in turn becomes a sensitive measure of the number of spins in a sample or subject.

Applicant has further discovered that by changing the features of the FEC the magnetic field gradient the flip angle of the initial RF pulse the type and number of molecules in the SSR or a combination of all of these a given concentration of nuclei can be kept at or very near the transition point between the two regimes. These parameters can be controlled very precisely to closely define the normal to SR transition point for a given sample or subject. That is for a given nuclei at a given concentration there is a value of the probe quality factor Q gradient G and RF pulse excitation angle for which the sample or subject is at or very near the transition point between the normal and superradiant regimes.

As an example in vivo serotonin concentrations in brain have been shown to be low in patients with depression and increase with administration of various anti depressants in a cohort of patients. Determining serotonin levels in blood do not represent values in brain. Although the serotonin metabolite 5 HIAA can be measured in the cerebrospinal fluid CSF this is much more difficult to access. While changes in serotonin concentration as a result of various drug therapies can be quite sharp the overall concentration of in vivo serotonin ng ml remains too low to be detectable in conventional MRS studies. Thus a technique that could improve MR sensitivity to detect these low concentrations of serotonin may be helpful in identifying subjects Who may benefit from antidepressant therapy. Also the small changes in the concentration of serotonin in vivo could be used to monitor the therapeutic response of subjects. In one implementation the SSR is filled with a known amount of serotonin or a similar target molecule and the FM or other system parameters such as local field gradients adjusted so that so that the condition Tis achieved for the molecule in the SSR. Via application of one or more RF pulses an SR pulse is produced from the target molecules in the SSR the features of this pulse such as its width peak time etc are stored. Then a subject may be inserted in the MR device and an identical RF pulse sequence used to produce a pulse from both the target molecules in the SSR and the subject. The resulting change in the features of the subsequent SR pulse may be used to determine the overall change in number of target molecules that resulted from insertion of the subject into the MR device this can then be used to determine concentration levels of that target molecule in the subject.

This process can be carried out singly or multiple times as desired. It may also be combined with various other pulse sequences to suppress unwanted resonances in the subject or sample. In one embodiment standard RF pulse sequences such as WATERGATE that are known in the art or other methods disclosed herein can be used to substantially eliminate signal from water prior to carrying out the above sequence.

The process can also be implemented in conjunction with various calibration schemes. For example the nuclei in the SSR can be characterized prior to introduction of the sample or subject by carrying out multiple SR pulse sequences with different gains and phase angles settings for the FEC. Thus the response of the nuclei in the SSR can be characterized under a wide variety of circumstances allowing for greater accuracy in identification and quantification of target molecules during the actual study. Another embodiment would comprise introducing into the MR device along with the SSR a number of dummy samples containing various concentrations of the target molecule in phantoms that simulate the actual subject or sample environment. In this way the response of the system to a subject or sample containing an unknown amount of the target molecule can be calibrated against the data obtained this calibration step.

Thus in one embodiment a method and related system and machine readable program are provided for detecting the presence of a set of nuclei molecules molecular fragments proteins and the like. This can include preparing a control sample consisting in part or in whole of a molecule or molecules with known composition and concentration as well as system components and machine readable programs that facilitate the same. The disclosed embodiments can further include controlling at least one external parameter such as the ambient magnetic field magnetic field gradient quality factor of the NMR coil and RF pulse angle so as to maintain the control sample at or near its SR transition. The method can further include bringing into proximity with the control sample a target sample containing a molecule or molecules of unknown composition and concentration and causing both the control sample and target sample to be subjected to RF excitation so as to cause the magnetic moment of at least one set of nuclei to have an angle greater than 90 with respect to the ambient magnetic field. The embodiments can still further include adjusting at least one ambient condition such as the magnetic field gradient so as to establish the change in the SR transition and determining the composition and concentration of said target molecule or molecules by analyzing the data. The disclosed embodiments can be combined with and or employ equipment discussed herein above.

As demonstrated herein the SR state is not one that occurs under normal clinical MRSI conditions. We therefore teach the inclusion in the MR machine of a coil whose electronic circuitry has been configured so as to amplify any feedback field henceforth referred to as the Feedback Enabled Coil FEC and of a volume henceforth to be referred to as the Supplementary Spin Reservoir SSR . The role of the SSR is to facilitate the production of SR conditions so that the properties of the SR state described below may be more fully exploited for the purposes of improving one or more MR studies imaging protocols spectroscopic analyses etc. In a preferred embodiment the SSR is a container with a predetermined concentration of one or more molecules that will be the target molecule s of the SR MRS. The SSR is situated ex vivo and placed proximate to the sample or subject to be studied for example a human or an animal and within the field of view FOV of one or more FECs.

Under appropriate conditions the nuclear magnetism from one or more molecules in a sample or subject contained in one or more FEC coils can be made to feedback upon itself. Under such conditions we describe these molecule s as being in the super radiant state SR . The SR state is defined as being where R T. Clinical MR machines cannot normally produce the conditions necessary to produce R T. The present disclosure teaches in addition to other teachings methods and systems for achieving the SR state even for low concentrations of molecules in otherwise clinical conditions. These teachings include use of a feedback enabled coil so that the active Q of one or more FEC coils included in or added to an MR machine can be made very high and the use of an SSR preferably ex vivo to ensure that one or more molecules in the MR machine are in the SR state.

Further embodiments of the present disclosure permit the use of SR conditions to suppress the signal from one or more ensembles of nuclei in an NMR MRI MRS study so that the signal from another set of nuclei can be more easily detected and used to produce a useful and tangible result such as a MR image or to achieve detection of a particular chemical species. Some implementations provide the suppression of the signal from fat in an in vivo MR study so that a superior image of water nuclei can be made by destroying the magnetization of the spins in the fat tissue.

Signal from fat and water is always present in an in vivo MR study. It is desirable to remove the signal from fat so as to better image the signal from water. To date this has been done by exploiting a the spectra differences between fat and water or b the difference in relaxation rates between fat and water.

One drawback of method a is that for practical purposes the spread in spectral frequencies of the fat and water nuclei result in their MR lines overlapping. Thus destroying the magnetization in the fat leads to loss of water signal as some of that is destroyed as well. Also any pulse that is tuned to pick out only the nuclei in fat must be quite long leading to longer sequence times TRs . Method b suffers from requiring a considerable time lag as the imaging study must wait for ln Tbefore the signal from fat is sufficiently removed. Not only does this introduce a time lag but during this period some signal from the water inevitably decays leading to poorer images.

Embodiments of the present disclosure overcome these drawbacks by exploiting properties of the superradiant condition. Specifically such embodiments permit the signal from of a given ensemble of nuclei such as protons in fat to be destroyed very rapidly such as in times less than T. This can result in the production of widely separated pulses between nuclei in two or more different molecules or types of molecules such as between protons in water and fat so that the signal from one can be suppressed to allow superior images of the other to be made.

Applicant has discovered that the peak time position of an SR pulse is a function amongst other factors of the number Larmor frequency and Tof a given set of nuclei. These vary widely for the same nuclei in different molecules. For example the H Tof water is 800 msec in vivo. But for fat the H Tis 80 msec. There is a chemical shift difference between the precessional frequency of protons in fat and water as well of 3.5 ppm at 3 T. Finally in an in vivo environment the amount of water and fat is different so their response to SR conditions is different.

When the system is in the SR condition the response of the system to an inversion of the nuclear magnetism to an angle greater than 90 degrees is a pulse rather than a Free Induction Decay FID . In the limit where Tis large T and the inversion is close to 180 degrees using equation 16 the peaktime of the pulse can be written as ln

Furthermore an SR pulse can be halted or cut at any time via the imposition of a field gradient sufficient in strength to suppress SR conditions so that T

In an in vivo study the SR pulse from water has a different time constant from that of fat. As described above this is because there are different amounts of water than fat in the coil. In addition the chemical shifts of fat and water differ slightly. The SR time constant difference can be emphasized by centering the resonant frequency of the resonator on either the fat or water frequency. Hence the water H magnetization can be made to be very far from the x axis when the gradient is imposed i.e. a very large fraction of the water magnetization can still be along the z axis while that from the fat is at z o.

In this circumstance images can be made from water with minimal interference from unwanted fat signal. The image can begin on timescales which are much faster than Tas required by the method b described above.

A further example of the separation of SR pulses is shown in for acetone and water. Water was placed in the inner compartment of a coaxial NMR tube acetone in the outer. In a 700 MHz magnet the 1H spins in each molecule were simultaneously flipped using a pi pulse. The resultant SR pulses are easily distinguished from one another. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art these embodiments can be combined with and or employ equipment methods machine readable programs and techniques described elsewhere herein.

Thus provided herein is a method for suppressing nuclear magnetization from one or more set of nuclei that includes 

Further embodiments of the present disclosure provide using SR pulses to selectively light up or obtain useful signal data e.g. suitable for forming images etc. from one portion of a volume that is being imaged within a larger region of interest that may be excited by a given RF pulse. This controlled and in some instances reduced field of view FOV allows data capture to be carried out using signal obtained in only one desired region of the entire volume from which signal would have otherwise been obtained when performing typical imaging operations previously known in the art. This reduced imaging time can thus permit a radiologist or other investigator to effectively zoom in on one portion of a larger potential region of interest ROI rather than having to view signal from the entire ROI. It will be appreciated herein that the ROI could simply be considered to be the particular area of interest to be studied rather than the larger volume within the RF coil that could be studied.

Techniques for reducing FOV while using RF pulses do exist wherein a linear field gradient is imposed on the subject or sample and then using frequency selective rf pulses to select a slice from that volume. For example by slicing in 3 dimensions a reduced FOV in the form of a cube can be created.

However Applicant has come to appreciate that these previously existing methods suffer from a number of drawbacks. First the RF pulses must be soft that is to say relatively long pulses of high intensity to achieve reasonable levels of spatial selection. These pulses can be of such long duration that local Trelaxation can begin to degrade sample or subject magnetization during the process. Also spatial resolution of the reduced FOV produced in this manner can often be on the order of a cm or more too large for many in vivo applications where the organ or anatomy of interest may be smaller than that.

The present methods and related systems and computer programs overcome these drawbacks by exploiting properties of the superradiant pulse. Specifically the SR pulse is very sensitive to the presence of field gradients to select out one region in which transverse magnetization can be permitted to survive. Thus the resolution of the FOV in the present technique is a function of the resolution of the field gradient whereas in existing techniques it is a function of the resolution of the field. This allows greater control over the reduced FOV parameters.

More specifically Applicant has discovered and appreciated that the conditions for propagation of an SR pulse are very sensitive to local field gradients.

In a region of space where tTno pulse propagates. Assuming that the initial state of the magnetization is complete inversion then after a time t

Spatially dependent field gradients are well known in NMR MRI. Second order shims produce field maps where the local gradient is very strong except in one region of space . This region can be widened narrowed or moved in 3D by adjusting the shim coils of the magnet.

Once Mxy has been created in a specific region of space standard sequences can be used to produce the desired image. In particular the use of an imaging sequence that employs one or more field gradients is preferred as the establishment of even a weak gradient will generally impose conditions of t Teverywhere in the volume. This has the effect of halting or cutting the SR pulse inside the reduced FOV with no effect on remaining longitudinal magnetization outside the reduced FOV.

SR conditions have been heretofore largely unknown in clinical MR because the requisite conditions high magnetic field and or high probe quality factor Q are not produced by commercially available MR machines known in the art. SR conditions are a more common phenomenon in high field NMR studies where they are generally considered an annoyance as their best known effect is to broaden the spectroscopic lines of the nuclei under observation. SR conditions are not desirable when one is trying to resolve the identity of many different molecules in a single sample which is the goal typical of many NMR studies. The present disclosure recognizes that SR conditions can be a benefit when the goal is the identification and quantification of a single molecule to the exclusion of others in the field of view. By adding the notion of control through the use of a Feedback Enabled Coil FEC and a Supplementary Spin reservoir SSR SR enables powerful feedback driven MR methods.

As discussed elsewhere herein SR occurs when Tconditions are arranged for one or more set of nuclei where 1 sin M. . . . In this expression and are the magnitude and phase of the gain factor generated by a feedback enabled coil is the gyromagnetic ratio and Mis the maximum value of the magnetization which will be equal to thermal polarization.

As noted above MR scanners known heretofore in the art are not generally capable of producing the conditions required for SR. In addition they are not typically set up as feedback enabled devices. One way to overcome these factors is to build a coil capable of producing feedback even under clinical MR conditions. The coil electronics are preferably able to adjust the phase of the magnetization as well as the gain of the feedback. We term such a coil a Feedback Enabled Coil FEC . Schematics of exemplary hardware are presented below.

An example of a feedback system known in the art is shown in . In this particular case a transmit receive surface coil is employed in a typical manner. In principle any RF coil can be used even receive only coils thus we will refer to this coil as the RF coil. The output of the preamp is split off and fed into a feedback circuit. After applying the appropriate attenuation and phase setting shifting the output of the feedback circuit is then fed back into the RF coil via an inductively coupled loop. In principle the gain and phase may be any value with the potential to shorten the radiation damping constant to any desired value. Also as a pin diode switch is employed radiation damping can be turned on and off under system control via a pulse sequence.

However the circuit of has two major shortcomings for a practical implementation of radiation damping. The inductively coupled loop is loosely coupled to the RF coil. This is necessary to prevent the output of the feedback circuit to adversely affect the tune and match of the RF coil. Consequently greater power is required by the feedback circuit then is necessary. To achieve small radiation damping constants an improvement in efficiency is necessary to reduce power requirements. A second shortcoming is that the signal coming from the RF coil has two significant components. One component is the RF signal arising from the magnetization of the spin system. The second component is the signal generated by the feedback circuit. Fortunately these two components are normally phase shifted by 90 so that it is possible to maintain a stable mode of operation for the feedback circuit. While the inefficiency of the circuit helps to promote stability the circuit will be sensitive to phase. With sufficient gain there is the danger of creating positive feedback.

Applicant has developed a circuit design which overcomes these shortcomings as shown in . A component of the embodiment of is the quadrature hybrid block indicated with a dashed block which causes reflected power from the RF coil to appear on the output of this circuit but not upon the input. This block can have different designs depending upon the type of RF coil employed. The reflected power from the NMR coil will again have two components one component from the spin system and the other component will be reflected power from mismatch with the coil. Additional remote tuning matching circuit s inside the quad hybrid block can minimize the reflected power due to any impedance mismatches while the NMR signal which arises from the spin system is not affected. This can minimize the undesirable component while maintaining an efficient coupling to the coil. If the embodiment of the RF coil is a receive only coil then the circuit is further simplified by removing the transmitter and RF power amp from the figure. The design of the quadrature hybrid block can vary depending upon the type of coil used. If a surface coil or any coil that is considered linear is used then the quad hybrid block utilizes two quadrature hybrids and one remote matching circuit. If a quadrature coil is used then the quadrature hybrid block includes two remote matching circuits and one quadrature hybrid. This design is scalable to parallel imaging coil arrays.

For the purpose of this disclosure a commercially available head coil e.g. e.g. single channel for operation on a 1.5T Siemens Avanto MRI scanner can be used and modified to be operated using a feedback circuit with a quadrature hybrid block as set forth above with respect to such as the illustrative embodiment depicted in . A low power amplifier can be used initially 10 watts to test the feedback circuit to insure against positive feedback and to obtain initial results.

All statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Descriptions herein of circuitry and method steps and computer programs represent conceptual embodiments of illustrative circuitry and software embodying the principles of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the functions of the various elements shown and described herein may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in association with appropriate software as set forth herein.

In the disclosure hereof any element expressed as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a a combination of circuit elements and associated hardware which perform that function or b software in any form including therefore firmware microcode or the like as set forth herein combined with appropriate circuitry for executing that software to perform the function. Applicants thus regard any means which can provide those functionalities as equivalent to those shown herein.

Similarly it will be appreciated that the system and process flows described herein represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable media and so executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown. Moreover the various processes can be understood as representing not only processing and or other functions but alternatively as blocks of program code that carry out such processing or functions.

The methods systems computer programs and mobile devices of the present disclosure as described above and shown in the drawings among other things provide for improved magnetic resonance methods systems and machine readable programs for carrying out the same. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the devices methods software programs and mobile devices of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus it is intended that the present disclosure include modifications and variations that are within the scope of the subject disclosure and equivalents.

