---

title: Access control authentication based on impedance measurements
abstract: A computing device may be configured to authenticate a user for access control, and may include at least one ground electrode configured for contact with a user, an impedance sensor coupled to the least one ground electrode, where the impedance sensor may be configured to perform a measurement based on a touch input from the user, a memory which stores instructions, and a processor, coupled the impedance sensor and the memory, where the processor may be configured to execute the instructions. The instructions may cause the processor to: receive the touch input from the user, receive an impedance value based on the touch input measured by the impedance sensor, and determine whether the received impedance value corresponds to at least one stored impedance value associated with a user profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661499&OS=09661499&RS=09661499
owner: Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
number: 09661499
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20141205
---
Manufacturers have traditionally provided access control as a security feature for authenticating users. Access control authentication allows authorized users to securely access their mobile devices while preventing access to unauthorized individuals. However conventional authentication approaches for access control such as passwords and Personal Identification Numbers PINs may require extra user effort and thus be inconvenient. Other methods such as fingerprint scanners and facial recognition may be less intrusive on the part of the user but rely on additional hardware and or software and may increase cost and complexity.

According to one aspect a method for authenticating a user for access control may be performed by a computing device. The method may include receiving a touch input from a user measuring an impedance value based on the touch input and determining whether the measured impedance value corresponds to at least one stored impedance value associated with a user profile.

Additionally the method may further include providing an indication to the user upon determining the measured impedance value corresponds to at least one impedance value associated with the user profile wherein the indication is at least one of an audio signal a tactile signal or a visual signal.

Additionally upon determining the measured impedance value corresponds to at least one impedance value associated with the user profile the method may further include transmitting to a second device an indication of a positive user identification. Additionally when the touch input is received on a surface of a touchscreen display the method may further include unlocking a device based on the touch input and activating the user profile in response to determining that the measured impedance value corresponds to at least one stored impedance value associated with the user profile.

Additionally when in response to determining that the measured impedance value fails to correspond to any stored impedance value associated with the user profile the method may further include requesting user authentication credentials from the user receiving from an additional touch input by the user user authentication information through the touchscreen display surface of the device determining the user authentication credentials matches the user profile measuring an additional impedance value based on the additional touch input storing the additional impedance value for the user s profile matching the authentication information and activating the user profile matching the user authentication information.

Additionally the method may include receiving additional touch inputs from the user and performing ongoing impedance value measurements based on the additional touch input to refine the at least one stored impedance value associated with a user profile. Additionally receiving touch input may further include receiving at least one of a personal identification number PIN entry a tap a swipe gesture or a path defined by a gesture.

Additionally measuring the impedance value may include measuring the impedance value associated with a long loop which includes a path traversing a chest of the user and further includes a first long loop termination point on a first hand in contact with a touchscreen display surface of a device and a second long loop termination point on a second hand in contact with at least one ground electrode of the device or measuring the impedance value associated with a short loop which includes a path traversing the first hand of the user and further includes a first short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with the touchscreen display surface of the device and a second short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with the at least one ground electrode of the device.

Additionally the method may include measuring the impedance value which may include using the measured impedance value associated with the short loop with at least one of a personal identification number PIN or a gesture associated with a touchscreen display surface or measuring additional impedance values associated with a plurality of loops wherein at least one of the plurality of loops traverses a distinct path of a body of the user.

Additionally when activating the user profile the method may include activating the user profile which includes a security classification wherein the security classification further includes an owner profile a standard user profile or a guest profile or activating the user profile associated with a specific individual. Additionally the method may include activating the user profile which includes an age classification wherein the age classification further includes an adult profile or a child profile. Additionally the method may include presenting a user interface on the touchscreen display based upon the activated user profile.

Additionally the method may include activating a device entering a calibration mode providing calibration instructions to the user measuring calibration data and storing at least one impedance value associated with the user profile based on the measured calibration data.

According to one aspect a computing device may authenticate a user for access control based on measured impedance values. The computing device may include at least one ground electrode configured for contact with a user an impedance sensor coupled to the least one ground electrode where the impedance sensor is configured to perform a measurement based on a touch input from the user a memory which stores instructions and a processor coupled the impedance sensor and the memory where the processor is configured to execute the instructions causing the processor to receive the touch input from the user receive an impedance value based on the touch input measured by the impedance sensor and determine whether the received impedance value corresponds to at least one stored impedance value associated with a user profile. Additionally the computing device may include instructions causing the processor to transmit to a second device an indication of a positive user identification.

Additionally the computing device may include a touchscreen display coupled to the processor and impedance sensor where the instructions cause the processor to unlock the device based on the touch input and activate the user profile in response to determining the received impedance value corresponds to at least one stored impedance value associated with the user profile.

Additionally when the processor determines the measured impedance value fails to correspond to any stored impedance value associated with the user profile the instructions may cause the processor to request user authentication credentials from the user receive from an additional touch input by the user user authentication information on a surface of the touchscreen display determine that the user authentication credentials matches the user profile measure an additional impedance value based on the additional touch input store the additional impedance value for the user s profile matching the authentication information and activate the user profile matching the user authentication information.

Additionally the computing may include instructions causing the processor to receive additional touch inputs from the user and perform ongoing impedance value measurements based on the additional touch input to refine the at least one stored impedance value associated with the user profile.

Additionally the impedance sensor of the computing device may be configured to measure the impedance value associated with a long loop which includes a path traversing a chest of the user and further includes a first long loop termination point on a first hand in contact with a surface of a touchscreen display and a second long loop termination point on a second hand in contact with the at least one ground electrode of the device or measure the impedance value associated with a short loop which includes a path traversing the first hand of the user and further includes a first short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with a surface of the touchscreen display and a second short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with the at least one ground electrode of the device. Additionally the impedance sensor may be configured to measure additional impedance values associated with a plurality of loops wherein at least one of the plurality of loops traverses along a distinct path of a body of the user.

Additionally the computing device may include instructions for activating the user profile further cause the processor to activate the user profile which includes a security classification wherein the security classification further includes an owner profile a standard user profile or a guest profile or activate the user profile which includes an age classification wherein the age classification further includes an adult profile or a child profile.

According to another aspect a device may measure at least one impedance value for user authentication. The device may include a strap which is configured to couple to a user and ground electrode s connected to a first side of the strap. The device may further include first signal electrode s connected to the first side of the strap and signal electrode s connected to a second side of the strap. The device may further include an impedance sensor coupled to the at least one ground electrode and the at least one first signal electrode and the at least one second signal electrode where the impedance sensor determines a measurement based on touch input from the at least one ground electrode and the at least one first signal electrode or the at one second signal electrode. The device may further include a controller coupled to the impedance sensor where the controller is configured to receive the measurement and determine an impedance value and communications interface s coupled to the controller where the communication interface is configured to receive the impedance value from the controller and transmit the received impedance value to a computer device for authentication of the user.

Additionally where the impedance sensor is configured to determine a long loop measurement which includes a path traversing across a chest of the user and further includes a first long loop termination point on a first hand in contact with at least one ground electrode connected to the first side of the strap and a second long loop termination point on a wrist corresponding to a second hand wherein the wrist is in contact with at least one second signal electrode connected to the second side of the strap. The impedance sensor may additionally or alternatively determine a short loop measurement which includes a path traversing across the first hand of the user and further include a first short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with at least one ground electrode connected to the first side of the strap and a second short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with at least one first signal electrode connected to the first side of the strap.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may be used to identify the same or similar elements.

A computing device may infer information regarding a user based on an impedance measurement of a circuit also referred to herein as an impedance loop or a loop which includes a path traversing across the body of a user. The information may be sufficiently detailed so as to identify specific users or the information may be less detailed so a user may be identified as belonging to a particular class e.g. an adult or a child . The impedance measurement may be measured over a range of frequencies and over different paths across the user s body. Once an impedance value is determined for a particular loop as will be explained in more detail below in reference to the impedance value may be used in an evaluation process to find a match with a previously stored impedance value that is associated with a user profile. If a match is determined the user profile may define access controls for the user of the computing device.

As used herein a user profile may be defined as information associated with a user which may be used for authentication and or access control. A user profile may contain various types of information which may identify a specific user and or may associate the user with one or more classes which may be used for security purposes. For example a user profile may be defined for a specific user and may associate the user with one or more classes. Such classes may be associated with access control and could identify a specific user as an owner administrator of a computing device a standard user or a guest. An owner administrator for example may access all content and configuration options for a device. A standard user for example may have more restrictive access and be limited in how a device may be configured. A guest for example may have limited access to content and no permissions to configure a device. In another example a class may refer to the age of a user and may classify the user as an adult or a child. In another embodiment a user profile may not include information to specifically identify a user but may define a user as belonging to one or more classes. For example a user profile could include generic adult profiles or generic child profiles which may be used to control access to content and or applications.

In conventional devices variations in the impedance measurements can make it difficult to obtain impedance values accurate enough to characterize the user for authentication and or access control purposes. Variations in impedance measurements may result for example from a variety of different paths that an impedance loop may take through the body when using conventional computing device to measure impedance values. Such variations may result from the relative quality i.e. the conductivity of a particular path s connection to a ground. The locations of connections to ground relative to a user s body may vary considerably depending upon environmental conditions e.g. the conductivity of different types of flooring the footwear of the user e.g. shoes having a rubber sole will insulate the ground connection and or the body conditions of the user e.g. moisture levels of the fingers in contact with conventional computing device hydration level of the body etc. .

For example as shown in an impedance measurement made by conventional device may use one loop which includes a path between index finger and first ground . Alternatively the impedance measurement made by conventional device may instead use a different loop which may include a path between index finger and second ground . Conventional computing device has no way to distinguish which paths or are used in generating a particular impedance measurement which may vary considerably in impedance value to the extent where the measurements are unsuitable for authentication and or access control.

Further referring to in one example a touchscreen display of computing device may serve as the energizing conductor which introduces the low level signal into a finger of the free hand contacting the touchscreen display while the opposite hand holding computing device may be in contact with unified ground connection . shows the path of a single impedance loop when finger of the free hand comes into contact with the touchscreen of computing device . In order to more clearly illustrate the current path through the body the illustration in does not show finger contacting the touchscreen display of computing device .

While shortening the impedance loop may lower measurement variations for an individual user the variance in impedance among different users may also be lowered which can result in reduced security. In order to improve security for short loop measurements additional authentication measures may be taken. For example in addition to matching impedance for a user computation device may also request additional information from the user in order to complete authentication. For example personal identification numbers PINs and or gestures e.g. swipes may be combined or used in conjunction with short loop impedance measurements to provide additional security for operations and or transactions having higher risk e.g. banking credit payments purchases and or signing documents . Other so called two factor or two step techniques may be used to combine additional information and or characteristics which are unique to the user. In some embodiments obtaining the additional information may not require an active step on the part of the user e.g. may not actively require for example reading a fingerprint of a user in addition to determine an impedance measurement where the fingerprint reading and the impedance measuring may be performed substantially at the same time.

In another embodiment security may be increased by performing multiple short loop measurements of the user using a plurality of electrodes . For example four electrodes on each side of computing device e.g. through and through may permit distinct short loop impedance measurements from different fingers. Various embodiments may arrange the measurements in different ways. For example all ground electrodes may be made at the same time. Alternatively the electrodes may be swept and or contacted in a particular pattern e.g. from top to down bottom to top even electrodes odd electrodes etc. . Alternatively all fingers do not need to touch an electrode where in such a case the impedance will measure as a high value. This pattern may be used as a unique factor e.g. like a secret key for a particular user and be used to improve security. Alternatively or additionally a factor may include how many ground electrodes should be associated with a thumb or palm side of the hand grip.

In another embodiment the user may designate a number of electrodes in a particular sequence known only to the user which may act as a security gesture. The display of computing device may react in an accepting manner when an expected measurement at a particular electrode is received or may react in a rejecting manner if an expected measurement is not received or sequence not properly entered.

In another embodiment particular signal electrodes may be graphically designated on the touchscreen of computing device . The touchscreen may present different zones which are to be touched in a particular manner specific finger and or sequence to authenticate the user.

In some embodiments wearable device may be a fully functional computing device including a touchscreen for display personal area networking PAN capability e.g. Bluetooth LE local area networking LAN capability e.g. WiFi and or wide area network WAN capability including WiMAXX and or cellular communication functionality . In other embodiments wearable device may be a wearable accessory acting in conjunction with a computing device include PAN networking capability and may further include a non touchscreen display or a display having limited functionality e.g. limited resolution colors and or only capable of displaying numbers and or characters . Alternatively the wearable accessory may have no display at all or merely include an analog watch face.

In an embodiment the impedance values measured by wearable device may be transmitted to a user s separate computing device e.g. B to authenticate and provide access control for the separate computing device. The impedance value may be transmitted using any personal area network e.g. Bluetooth LE or a local area network e.g. WiFi . In another embodiment wherein wearable device is a computing device the measured impedance values be used internally for authentication and or access control to wearable device .

Electrodes and may be used for generating various impedance measurements of a user. In the example shown in signal electrodes may apply a low level signal for long loop impedance measurements. Ground electrode may be used for both long loop and short loop impedance measurements. Combination electrode may be used for short loop impedance measurements and be used as a signal electrode or a ground electrode as described in more detail below. In another embodiment in which display is a touchscreen display the touchscreen may act as a signal electrode for determining either long loop or short loop impedance measurements. In other embodiments the roles of electrodes and may be reversed e.g. signal ground and still be capable of performing both long loop and short loop impedance measurements.

Display may include a liquid crystal display LCD an electronic ink display e.g. an electrophoretic display an electroluminescent display and or another type of display device. Display may be a touchscreen and thus include devices components configured to detect a user s touch which may further include a set of touch sensors such as a set of capacitive sensors e.g. surface capacitive sensors projected capacitive touch sensors etc. a set of resistive sensors e.g. analog resistive sensors digital resistive sensors etc. a set of optical sensors etc. Additionally display may also serve as a signal electrode for impedance measurements and include components for providing a low level signal and for interfacing with an impedance sensor. When device does not use a touchscreen display as a signal electrode at least one distinct signal electrode or combination electrode may be fixed in housing to provide a low level signal for impedance measurements.

Microphone may function as an input device that receives audio signals and converts the received audio signals to electrical signals. Speaker may function as an output device that receives electrical signals and generates audio signals based on the received electrical signals. Computing device may further include additional sensors that are not shown in . Although shows exemplary components of computing device in other implementations computing device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of computing device may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other components of computing device .

Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Volatile memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor . Non volatile memory may include a Flash RAM device a Read Only Memory ROM device or another type of static storage that may store information and instructions for use by processor . Non volatile memory may further store user profiles and associated impedance values corresponding to users of computing device .

Display may include a liquid crystal display LCD an electronic ink display e.g. an electrophoretic display an electroluminescent display an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED display and or another type of display device. Display may be a touchscreen and thus include devices components configured to detect a user s touch which may further include a set of touch sensors such as a set of capacitive sensors e.g. surface capacitive sensors projected capacitive touch sensors etc. a set of resistive sensors e.g. analog resistive sensors digital resistive sensors etc. a set of optical sensors etc. Additionally display may also serve as a signal electrode for impedance measurements and include components for providing a low level signal and for interfacing with an impedance sensor.

Input device s may include one or more mechanisms that permit an operator to input information to computing device such as for example a keypad or a keyboard a microphone voice recognition components for a touchscreen and or biometric mechanisms etc.

Connectivity interface s may include any transceiver mechanism that enables computing device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example connectivity interface s may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as cellular network e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced etc. . Connectivity interface s may include a transceiver that enables computing device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. Connectivity interface s may include a transmitter that converts baseband signals to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that converts RF signals to baseband signals. Connectivity interface s may be coupled to an antenna assembly not shown for transmitting and receiving RF signals.

Connectivity interface s may further include a logical component that includes input and or output ports input and or output systems and or other input and output components that facilitate the transmission of data to other devices. For example connectivity interface s may include a network interface card e.g. Ethernet circuitry for wired communications and or a wireless network interface e.g. a WiFi card for wireless communications. Connectivity interface s may also include a universal serial bus USB port for communications over a cable a Bluetooth wireless interface a radio frequency identification RFID interface a near field communications NFC wireless interface and or any other type of interface that converts data from one form to another form.

Impedance sensor may include one or more devices used to measure the impedance of a user by initially creating impedance loops i.e. circuits that include paths within the human body. The impedance loops may be created by applying ground and signal electrodes to different parts of the body where the signal electrode applies an excitation signal and the ground electrode provides a return for the signal current. Once an impedance loop is established impedance sensor may measure parameters of the excitation signal passing through the body to determine for example a capacitance value. Impedance sensor may use a frequency swept signal for the excitation signal and be able to measure capacitances on the order of fractions of a pico Farad. Different impedance loops can be created based on the applying electrodes to the human body to create a circuit using a low level signal for excitation. As shown in impedance sensor may directly interface to display which may act as signal electrode. Impedance sensor may also interface to processor over bus to provide impedance values for further processing e.g. statistical processing such averaging and for storage in non volatile memory for association with user profiles.

Computing device may perform certain operations or processes as may be described in detail below in relation to . Computing device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as volatile memory and or non volatile memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. A logical memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into volatile memory from another computer readable medium such as non volatile memory or from another device via connectivity interface s . The software instructions contained in volatile memory and or non volatile memory may cause processor to perform operations or processes described below. Alternatively hardwired circuitry such as for example application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the principles of the embodiments. Thus exemplary implementations are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The configuration of components of computing device illustrated in is for illustrative purposes only. It should be understood that other configurations may be implemented. Therefore computing device may include additional fewer and or different components than those depicted.

Controller may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Controller may further include any type of on board volatile memory and or non volatile memory that may store information and instructions for use by the processor of controller . Such instructions may be used to facilitate impedance measurements of a user and transfer them to the computing device. Alternatively or additionally controller may employ hardwired circuitry such as for example application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs which may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the principles of the embodiments. Thus exemplary implementations are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. Wearable controller may further include volatile or non volatile memory external to controller not shown . In some embodiments where device may perform authentication based on measured impedance values memory on board controller may store user profiles and impedance values associated therewith for performing user authentication.

Connectivity interface s may include hardware and or software that enables wearable device to communicate with any computing device. Typically the computing device may be in the presence of the user so connectivity interface s may include hardware and or software for communicating over a personal area network PAN e.g. Bluetooth LE . Alternatively other systems may be included for communication over other types of networks such as for example local area networks e.g. WiFi and or wide area networks e.g. cellular networking such as LTE .

In an embodiment wearable device may include user interface s . The user interface s may include various transducers to provide feedback to the user regarding the status of authentication. For example audio and or tactile transducers may provide a signal indication the status of authentication e.g. whether positive authentication occurred or failed . Additionally or alternatively wearable device may further include an image display consistent with wearable devices which may further include touchscreen capability or a display having limited functionality e.g. limited resolution colors and or only capable of displaying numbers and or characters . In such cases the display may also provide an indication of the status of authentication.

Impedance sensor may be used to measure the impedance of a user by initially creating impedance loops i.e. circuits that include paths within the human body. The impedance loops may be created by applying ground and signal electrodes to different parts of the body where the signal electrode applies an excitation signal and the ground electrode provides a return for the signal current. Once an impedance loop is established impedance sensor may measure parameters of the excitation signal passing through the body to determine for example a capacitance value. Impedance sensor may use a frequency swept signal for the excitation signal and be able to measure capacitances on the order of fractions of a pico Farad. Wearable device may create impedance loops having different paths such as for example a long loop having path shown in or a short loop having path shown in that can be created based on the applying electrodes to the human body.

The configuration of components of wearable device illustrated in is for illustrative purposes only. It should be understood that other configurations may be implemented thus wearable device may include additional fewer and or different components than those depicted.

Computing device may measure an impedance value based on the received touch input Block . The impedance measurement may be associated with a long loop which includes a path traversing across a chest of the user and further include a first long loop termination point on a first hand in contact with the touchscreen display surface of computing device and a second long loop termination point on a second hand in contact with the ground electrode s of computing device e.g. ground . Alternatively the impedance measurement may be associated with a short loop which includes a path traversing across the first hand of the user and further includes a first short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with the touchscreen display surface of computing device and a second short loop termination point on the first hand in contact with the ground electrode s of computing device e.g. ground .

In another embodiment computing device may combine the measured impedance value associated with the short loop with at least one of a PIN or a gesture associated with the touchscreen display surface. For example the unlocking sequence may depend on both a proper PIN entry in conjunction with a matching impedance value of the user associated with the PIN. Additionally measuring the impedance value may further include measuring additional impedance values associated with a plurality of loops where at least one of the plurality of loops traverses along a distinct path of a body of the user. For example to improve security the computing device may measure an impedance of one short loop and then measure the impedance of one long loop for performing authentication.

Once the impedance value s is determined computing device may determine whether the measured impedance value corresponds to at least one stored impedance value associated with a user profile Block . If the measured impedance value corresponds to at an impedance value associated with the user profile i.e. user authentication has occurred computing device or wearable device may provide a positive indication to the user where the indication may include an audio signal a tactile signal haptic feedback and or a visual indicator if applicable e.g. when wearable device includes a display .

In one embodiment once the measured impedance value is determined to correspond to an impedance value s computing device wearable device may transmit to a second device an indication that the user has been positively identified e.g. authenticated . This signal may be provided to any networked device which may upon receiving the indication of authentication perform an action based upon the authenticated user. Such actions may be based on a profile stored in the networked device and or may be provide over a network e.g. from a cloud server . The networked device may include for example a monitor e.g. a television a projector an audio device a home appliance lighting devices e.g. lamps strip lights etc. a Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning HVAC controller a physical security device e.g. lock door window garage door etc. a desktop or laptop computer and or any networked device e.g. an Internet of Things device . The actions may generic e.g. power on off and or specific to the networked device. For example the actions may include changing a television channel unlocking a door altering the HVAC temperature turning on a light etc. In some cases the action may be to compete a financial transaction or other transaction via a networked device. For example once the user has authenticated computing device wearable device may complete a purchase at a retailor or merchant.

In another embodiment computing device may activate the user profile Block upon authentication in Block . Thus computing device may activate a user profile which includes a security classification where for example the security classification further includes an owner profile a standard user profile or a guest profile. In another embodiment computing device may activate a user profile associated with a specific individual. In yet another embodiment computing device may activate a user profile which includes an age classification wherein the age classification further includes an adult profile or a child profile. The user profile may automatically enable or disable functionality of computing device and or access to applications settings etc.

In an embodiment computing device may present a user interface on the touchscreen display based upon the activated user profile. Thus aspects of the user interface may change indicating access status of the activated profile. For example certain controls on a user interface may change depending upon the access status of the activated profile. Thus if a user does not have access to certain controls graphics elements corresponding to those controls may be grayed out or not displayed at all.

In an embodiment the user profiles may be created and refined using for example machine learning where access to particular applications and or data type usage may be classified by computing device . For example classifications between an adult and a child may be determined though usage patterns of computing device . Such general classifications may not require specific identification of an individual and thus may be determined using wider tolerances of impedance measurement. Moreover the wider tolerances may facilitate discriminating the general impedance difference between an adult and a child given large differences in body mass index BMI .

In an embodiment once the user profile is activated different items in the user interface of computing device may be assigned to different impedance profiles so that such user interface items may not be accessed or activated if the item does not correspond to the activated user profile. For example pressing certain software defined buttons in an application for purchasing an item may only be activated by an adult or more specifically by the owner of computing device . Such embodiments for example may use an application programming interface API that communicates with a service provider so that a corresponding website can tag certain links as active or inactive depending upon the profile. This may be realized by either a having an option that is visible but only let a specific user s impedance profile activate it or b let the same graphic control go to different options based on the corresponding profile of the user who touches that graphical control. For example a movie selection button may only display age appropriate movies upon activation by a child but may display recommendations appropriate for adults when activated by a user having an adult profile.

Upon activating the user profile corresponding to the measured impedance value in Block computing device may perform ongoing impedance value measurements based on the additional touch input to refine the at least one stored impedance value associated with the activated user profile Block . For example impedance values for profiles may be built up over time based upon computing device usage. For example application usage between children and adults may be safely assumed and profiled. When a user interacts with applications profiled for adults e.g. calendaring applications email usage with specific accounts specific websites etc. each tap and swipe on the touchscreen of computing device may be stored to refine the impedance values associated with the user s profile. When refining the impedance value measurements in Block user interface gestures which involve drag events may be of special interest as such gestures may be associated with sustained finger contact with the touchscreen display of computing device which can be used for additional impedance measurements.

Further referring to when in response to determining the measured impedance value fails to correspond to any stored impedance value associated with the user profile in Block computing device may request user authentication credentials from the user Block . In response to the request computing device may receive from an additional touch input by the user user authentication information UAI through the touchscreen display surface of the device Block . The UAI may include PINs passwords and or authentication gestures. Computing device may determine whether the UAI matches the user profile Block . If so computing device may measure an additional impedance value based on the additional touch input Block and store the additional impedance value for the user s profile matching the UAI Block . Afterword control may be transferred to Block to activate the corresponding user profile. If in Block computing device determines the received UAI fails to match the user profile then control may be transferred back to Block to receive additional touch input from the user.

In an embodiment computing device may calibrate the impedance measurement upon activation Block . Computing device may then enter a calibration mode Block . Computing device may provide calibration instructions to the user Block . This may be performed by indicating how to hold the device which electrodes to use e.g. using short loops vs long loops and or which gestures to perform when collecting calibration measurements. Computing device may then measure the calibration data Block and store the measured impedance value s associated with the user profile based on the calibration data Block .

In the preceding specification various implementations have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional implementations may be provided without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

For example while series of blocks have been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to realize these systems and methods is not limiting of the exemplary implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the devices and methods were described without reference to the specific software code whereas it is understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the devices and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. A component as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

The terms comprises comprising when used in this specification are taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof. Further the term exemplary e.g. exemplary implementation exemplary configuration etc. means as an example and does not mean preferred best or likewise.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the exemplary implementations unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

