---

title: Method for improving location accuracy in multi-channel wireless networks
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a method and network device for improving location accuracy in multi-channel wireless networks. Specifically, to coordinate with other Access Points (APs) and improve location accuracy of client devices, each access point can (a) obtain a schedule of another neighboring AP; (b) switch to the operating channel of the neighboring AP at a scheduled time for communication exchanges between the neighboring AP and the client device, (c) listen to the communication exchanges between the neighboring AP and the client device; (d) collecting signal samples, e.g., signal strength associated with messages originated from the client device; and (e) send the report to the location engine to allow the location engine collect more signal samples associated with the client device, thereby more accurately determine the location of the client device; etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445226&OS=09445226&RS=09445226
owner: ARUBA NETWORKS, INC.
number: 09445226
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
The present disclosure relates to location services in a wireless local area network. In particular the present disclosure relates to improve location accuracy in multi channel wireless networks through the coordination of receiving and transmitting functions of wireless access points with regards to wireless devices.

Wireless digital networks such as networks operating under the current Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards are spreading in their popularity and availability. In a wireless local area network WLAN deployment a number of clients can be connected to the same wireless network via one or more access points. The wireless access points usually can track the location of associated client devices and use such location information to provide location based services.

In certain scenarios however the access points cannot track the location of the client devices well. This is because the access points usually rely on IEEE 802.11 standard defined protocol in which a client device will periodically send out probe requests that would allow access points in a wireless network to determine the location of the client device. These probe requests are transmitted infrequently by some client devices and therefore may not provide enough information that is sufficient to accurately locate such client devices.

Moreover recently some mobile device manufacturers have deprecated the use of the client probing protocol for the benefit of preserving device battery life. Thus there will be even fewer probe requests received from client devices from particular manufacturers.

On the other hand the location accuracy in a multi channel network depends on how many and how often access points in a WLAN receives probe requests from a particular client device. In general the more probe requests that the access points receives from the particular client device during a particular time period the more accurate the network can use information retrieved from these probe request to accurately determine the client device s location around the particular time period.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. While the context of the disclosure is directed to virtual broadcast domains or groups in wireless network one skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to location services in a wireless local area network. In particular the present disclosure relates to improve location accuracy in multi channel wireless networks through the coordination of receiving and transmitting functions of wireless access points with regards to wireless devices.

With the solution provided herein the disclosed network device configures a first access point to transmit a beacon frame on a first channel during a particular time period. The disclosed network device then generates the beacon frame to include false information indicating that data for a client device has been received by the first access point and is available for transmission to the client device. Note that no data has been received by the first access point for transmission to the client device. Further the disclosed network device transmits the beacon frame including the false information to the client device. Subsequent to transmitting the beacon frame to the client device the disclosed network device exchanges one or more packets with the client device. Then the disclosed network device estimates a location of the client device based at least on packets received from the client device on the first channel.

Moreover according to solution provided herein a second disclosed network device identifies a time period during which a first network device is scheduled to communicate with a client device on a first channel. The second disclosed network device then switches from a second channel to the first channel based on the time period scheduled for communication between the first network device and the client device. The second disclosed network device also receives one or more frames from the client device during the time period and determines information associated with the client device based at least on one or more attributes associated with the one or more frames received from the client device.

According to the present disclosure a serving access point AP generally refers to an AP serving client devices.

A neighboring AP or listening AP generally refers to an AP that obtains distance information for client devices that it is not serving.

Polling generally refers to the act of an AP sending a data solicitation message e.g. a NULL QOS frame to client devices associated with the AP.

A wireless communication channel generally refers to a frequency and bandwidth that is contiguous and orthogonal. Thus devices operating on one wireless communication channel cannot hear or transmit to devices operating on different channels but in range devices on the same wireless communication channel can interoperate.

Probing generally refers to client devices transmitting probe requests on multiple channels to determine whether there are available APs to connect to. As there are many channels it is costly energy wise. As such battery powered client devices are expected to continue reducing their need to probe in the future.

Power save generally refers to client devices turning off the Wi Fi chipset in order to conserve battery life. Note that there are several forms of power save. The present disclosure mostly relates to the IEEE 802.11 power save techniques.

Limitations of applications generally refer to mobile devices having techniques to limit the power requirements of applications. Usually when applications are not running in the foreground the applications are frozen and cannot require the mobile device to perform anything including transmitting on any wireless communication interface.

Scanning generally refers to the act of a Wi Fi device e.g. an AP or a client device to periodically look at other channels to determine channel characteristics.

Network according to embodiments of the present disclosure may operate on a private network including one or more local area networks. The local area networks may be adapted to allow wireless access thereby operating as a wireless local area network WLAN . In some embodiments one or more networks may share the same extended service set ESS although each network corresponds to a unique basic service set BSS identifier.

In addition network depicted in may include multiple network control plane devices such as network controllers access points or routers capable of controlling functions etc. Each network control plane device may be located in a separate sub network. The network control plane device may manage one or more network management devices such as access points or network servers within the sub network.

Moreover in the exemplary network depicted in a number of client devices are connected to the access points in the WLAN. For example client devices are associated with AP and client devices are associated with AP . Note that client devices may be connected to the access points via wired or wireless connections.

During operations a wireless station such as client device client device or client device is associated with a respective access point e.g. access point AP access point AP etc. Moreover if a client device e.g. client moves from a first physical location to a second physical location the client device e.g. client may be disassociated with its current servicing access point e.g. AP servicing the first physical location and associate with a new servicing access point e.g. AP servicing the second physical location .

Moreover location server supports a platform integrated with WLAN that powers location aware applications for various enterprise venues. For example a location engine which can be a part of controller not shown sends location data from triangulated APs to location server . Location server can be a part of WLAN or can be a cloud based server. Also note that location is capable of providing real time location services for client devices in WLAN . Furthermore location server can provide a security layer between enterprise IT infrastructure and external access. Thus complicated firewalls and Virtual Private Networks VPNs are not required to leverage location server .

According to embodiments of the present disclosure location server can store location information gathered by a location engine from the network. The location engine and or location server can process location information and share it through a standard Application Programming Interface API . In particular the location engine is pre configured with the access point AP placement data in order to calculate locations for client devices serviced by the access points in the network. This AP placement data may be presented as a map and imported from a network monitoring module. The location engine can then calculate associated and or unassociated client device locations via triangulation for example at a default fixed interval. Location information that is provided by the location engine and stored by location server may include but is not limited to client s username Internet Protocol IP address Media Access Control MAC address device type application firewall data destinations and applications used by associated devices current location historical location etc. In some embodiments personal identifying information PII can be filtered out of the data allowing network administrator or clients to view standard or anonymized data with or without MAC addresses client user names and IP addresses.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure a client device e.g. client device will periodically send out probe requests to its neighboring access points e.g. access point and access point in an attempt to connect to WLAN . The probe requests contain information that would allow the neighboring access points in a wireless network to determine the location of the client device.

However as mentioned above these probe requests are transmitted infrequently by some client devices and some mobile device manufacturers have deprecated the use of the client probing protocol for the benefit of preserving device battery life. Therefore the number of signal samples such as probe requests received by the neighboring access points of the client device may not provide enough information that allows for accurate location of the client device. Therefore it is desirable to improve accuracy of location server by increasing the number of signal samples that the access points in WLAN can collect from the client devices.

Controller is also connected to a number of other network devices such as access points AP AP AP etc. Multiple client devices can be associated with each access point at any time. For example as illustrated in client device may be associated with AP .

In addition client devices in a wireless network often periodically send frames such as probe requests to discover access points in their physical proximity. For example client device may be periodically sending probe request via one or more wireless communication channels which may be received by one or more of the access points located within the physical neighborhood of the client device e.g. AP AP and AP . Each access point may reply to probe request received from client device with a probe response. Subsequently client device may determine which access point is the best one to connect to based on information associated with frames e.g. probe response received from different neighboring access points.

In some embodiments multiple APs in the network may be communicating with client devices on the same wireless communication channel. In other embodiments different APs may be communicating with different clients on a number of different wireless communication channels supported by the wireless network.

When an access point e.g. AP receives a frame such as a probe request from client device the access point determines a signal strength associated with the frame. Moreover the access point will transmit the signal strength as well as device information associated with client to a location server in the WLAN.

Since the frame is transmitted by client device over the air on a particular wireless communication channel any access point operating on the same communication channel within the neighborhood of client device will receive the frame sent by client device . When multiple APs e.g. AP AP AP receive the frame at or around the same time from client device each AP will separately determine a respective signal strength associated with the frame and transmit the signal strength associated with the frame to the location server.

When the location server receives multiple reports from different APs the location server can use triangulation techniques to determine the location of client device . To do this the location server will be pre configured with location information associated with each of the APs. Based on the signal strength reported by a respective AP the location server can infer a coverage area in which client device is likely to be located. For example location server may determine that client is located within the shaded ring area around AP as illustrated in based on a first signal strength of the frame that AP receives from client . Likewise location server may determine that client device is likely to be located with the ring area around AP based on a second signal strength of the frame that AP receives from client and location server may further determine that client device is likely to be located with the ring area around AP based on a third signal strength of the frame that AP receives from client . Therefore the location server can determine that client device is located within the overlapping area ABC of the three different ring areas centered on AP AP and AP respectively.

Note that in order to locate client device there needs to be at least three separate reports from three different APs that are received by the location server. The location server is able to provide more accurate location of client device if more reports are received from different APs in the neighborhood or if multiple reports are received from the same AP within a short period of time with regards to the same client device. Therefore ideally the location server would be able to provide accurate location of client devices in the network if the location server can receive reports associated with the same client device from four or more APs in the network around the same period of time. In some embodiments the signal strength is measured as received signal strength indicator RSSI which generally provides an estimation of how far away a client is from an access point.

Depending on the wireless standards that the WLAN is configured to support an AP can use multiple different wireless communication channels to communicate in the WLAN. Although each AP such as AP AP AP is capable of communicating on multiple different wireless communication channels each AP is dynamically configured to be communicating on one particular wireless communication channel which typically is different from the wireless communication channels that its neighboring APs use to minimize signal interferences and maximize the utilization of each available wireless communication channel.

In some embodiments alternative to or in addition to probe requests from the client device APs in the network can also determine a signal strength associated with an acknowledgment frame ACK received the client device and report the signal strength to the location server. In a typical WLAN client devices usually send out ACK frames more frequently than periodical probe requests. Thus adding or using ACK frames would allow more signal sample to be collected by the APs and reported to the location server.

Nevertheless when a client device such as client device communicates to an AP in the network such as AP all of the communications will happen on a particular wireless communication channel. An AP on one wireless communication channel cannot hear to communicate with a client device or a network device such as another AP on a different wireless communication channel. Therefore AP and AP will not hear the wireless communication between AP and client device including the acknowledgment frames sent from client device to AP because ACK frames from client devices are usually sent on a current operating channel. Accordingly AP and AP will not be able to collect ACK signal samples transmitted on a different wireless communication channel and will not able to report those to the location server.

By contrast when client device attempts to look for neighboring APs by sending out probe requests client device can hop through each of the wireless communication channels supported by the WLAN to send the probe request. Thus multiple APs would be able to hear the probe request from the client device even though they are operating on different wireless communication channels. This would allow multiple APs in the neighborhood to provide multiple reports about a signal received from the same client device .

When a client device is in power save mode the Wi Fi chip on the client device will be turned off. Thus the client device in the power save mode will stop listening for packets that are transmitted to the client device. Also the client device will stop sending packets to other devices in the network as well. IEEE 802.11 standards support a mechanism for an AP to communicate with a client device while the client device is in power save mode.

Specifically an AP may send out beacon frames at a fixed interval e.g. every 100 milliseconds. Beacon frame generally refers to one of the management frames in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standard based WLANs. For example beacon frame may contain information about the network such as Service Set Identifier SSID . Beacon frames are transmitted periodically by the APs to announce the presence of a WLAN. Also beacon frames can be packets sent by an access point periodically to synchronize a wireless network.

Moreover a Delivery Traffic Indication Message DTIM interval is configured for the network. DTIM is a type of traffic indication map TIM which informs the clients about the presence of buffered multicast broadcast data on the access point. In some embodiments DTIM is generated within the periodic beacon frame at a frequency specified by the DTIM Interval. Normal TIMs that are present in every beacon frame are for signaling the presence of buffered unicast data. After a DTIM the access point will send the multicast broadcast data on the channel.

Note that IEEE 802.11 standards define a power save mode for client devices. In power save mode a client device may choose to sleep for one or more beacon intervals prior to waking for beacon frames that include DTIMs. For example when the DTIM period is 2 a client device in power save mode may be awaken to receive every other beacon frame transmitted by the access point that the client device is associated with.

More specifically according to some embodiments prior to entering a power save mode a client device will transmit a notification to the access point that the client device is associated with that the client device will be entering power save mode such that the access point will know how to store unicast traffic destined for the client device while the client device is in the power save mode. Then the client device will begin to sleep according to the DTIM period. The higher the DTIM period the longer a client device may sleep and therefore the more power that particular client device may potentially save.

Different client devices in wireless networks may have different requirements for power consumption and communication and that may affect how often a client device enters power save mode. For example laptop computers may require relatively high communication throughput and may have low sensitivity to power consumption. Thus a relatively low DTIM period may be suitable for the laptop computers. Mobile devices however may require relatively low communication throughput and may be operated by batteries of relatively low capacity. Therefore a relatively high DTIM period may be suitable for the mobile devices. Moreover for devices having a medium to high communication throughput while still having small batteries a medium DTIM period may be most suitable.

It is important to note that a client device in power save mode may elect to wake up right before the DTIM interval listen for the beacon frame transmitted by the access point at the DTIM interval and inspect the beacon frame. In some embodiments the beacon frame includes information e.g. a bit and a client identifier which indicates that the AP has unicast data packets specifically for an identified client device.

After the client device receives the beacon framing including the bit the client device determines whether the AP has any unicast data packets based on the bit and the client device identifier in the beacon frame. If the client device determines that the AP has unicast data packets for it the particular client device the client device will then transmit a notification packet to the AP indicating that the client device is ready to receive the unicast data packets destined for the client device and that the AP can proceed with sending the unicast data packets to the particular client device.

Thereafter upon receiving the notification packet from the client the AP will transmit the unicast data packets to the particular client device. After the client device finishes receiving the unicast data packets transmitted by the AP the client device will go back to sleep in the power save mode.

In one embodiment assuming that all of the access points in a wireless network are operating on the same wireless communication channel. If the client devices esp. mobile devices are configured to enable power save mode the AP will not be able to collect enough frames e.g. probe request or ACK frames from the client devices to calculate their locations.

In order to increase the number of samples collected from client devices for accurately locating the client devices the AP may modify the mechanism described above. illustrates an exemplary modified communication mechanism for improving location accuracy. includes client device a number of APs located within the physical neighborhood of the client device and operating on the same wireless communication channel as the client device such as AP and AP location server etc. Initially at time point t client device is associated with access point AP as indicated by the communication exchanges between AP and client device . At time point t client device sends AP a notification that the client device is about to enter into power save mode. Subsequently at time point t client device enters into power save mode and only wakes up at DTIM intervals to listen for beacon frames transmitted from AP.

At time point t although no data destined for client device has been received at AP for the purpose of soliciting more signal samples from the client device AP may send a data notification message to client device indicating that AP has received data destined for the client device. Because AP does not actually have the data for the client device data notification message is a beacon frame that contains false information.

At time point t client device replies to the data notification message by sending a packet to AP indicating that client device is ready to receive data packets. As illustrated in packet is received by AP at time point t. Also because packet is sent over client device s operating wireless communication channel any other network devices within the physical neighborhood of the client device that are operating on the same wireless communication channel will be able to hear packet . For example AP also receives a copy of packet at time point t.

Next each AP in the neighborhood independently determines a signal strength associated with packet that each AP receives from client device and transmits the signal strength and client device identification to location server . For example AP sends a first report including the signal strength and other information associated with packet to location engine at time point t AP sends a second report including the signal strength and other information associated with packet to location server at time point t etc.

After location engine receives a number of reports e.g. report and report associated with the same client device from different APs location engine will calculate the location of the client device based at least on the signal strengths in the received reports as well as pre configured AP location information.

Moreover after AP receives packet from client device AP may transmit a special packet not shown to client device . In some embodiments the special packet can be a null data frame such as a QoS NULL data frame. Note that a null data frame generally refers to a control frame that contains no data but flag information. Upon receiving the special packet client device will send an ACK frame to AP . The ACK frame will be heard by other neighboring APs communicating on the same wireless communication channel such as AP . Thus both AP and AP can determine the signal strength associated with the ACK frame as received by each access point and transmit the signal strength information in a report to location engine to provide additional signal samples for improving the location accuracy of client device .

Each access point has a built in scanning mechanism. For example an access point that is operating on channel can switch to channel for a short period of time and listen on channel and return expeditiously to channel to continue servicing its client devices. Using the built in mechanism an AP can learn information about other APs operating on different wireless communication channels. Similar to a client device which can determine DTIM interval of its associated AP e.g. AP other APs in the network operating on different channels can also obtain the DTIM interval. Therefore AP can determine when AP will be sending its beacon frames.

In addition APs may transmit information about which DTIM intervals the AP will solicit information from connected power save and non power save clients. In one implementation the information is transmitted as vendor specific information in the beacon.

In some embodiments the AP control plane may facilitate APs to share with each other additional information regarding when each AP will solicit data from its associated client devices e.g. via generation of beacon frames containing false information as described in the above section. Therefore as illustrated in when AP learns that its neighboring AP AP will be soliciting data from its client devices at time point A AP can switch to channel from channel . Note that the switch may happen shortly before AP starts soliciting data from client device at time point B.

For the duration between time point B and time point C AP can then listen for the exchanges between AP and client device on channel . Note that the exchanges may include but are not limited to a probe request from client device a notification message from client indicating that the client is ready to receive data from AP an ACK frame from client indicating that the client has received the data frame e.g. a null data frame transmitted by AP etc.

After the exchanges between AP and client device complete at time point D AP may switch back to channel and continue to service its own client devices on channel . Because both AP and AP have received frames transmitted from client device during the time period between B and C both AP and AP can determine the respective signal strength of packets they received and send a report to the location server with such information to facilitate more accurate calculation of the location of client device .

In other words to coordinate with other APs and improve location accuracy of client devices each AP can a obtain a schedule of another neighboring AP b switch to the operating channel of the neighboring AP at a scheduled time for communication exchanges between the neighboring AP and the client device c listen to the communication exchanges between the neighboring AP and the client device d collecting signal samples e.g. signal strength associated with messages originated from the client device and e send the report to the location engine to allow the location engine collect more signal samples associated with the client device thereby more accurately determine the location of the client device etc.

Note that when an AP switch to the operating channel of its neighboring AP the AP may listen to communication exchanges between the neighboring AP and not only just one particular client device but also multiple or even all of client devices associated with the neighboring AP. The client devices may not even be clients in power save mode.

In addition an AP may be sending data solicitation message to its client devices at a longer interval than the DTIM interval to avoid collecting too much data too frequently from the client devices. Therefore an AP may be configured to send out the data solicitation message to its associated client device at every 3 DTIM intervals which can be configured by a network administrator.

Also it is important to note a servicing AP can have any schedule for the data solicitation of its client devices. As long as the schedule is shared with its neighboring APs the neighboring APs can switch to the operating channel of the servicing AP prior to the scheduled solicitation for subsequent communication exchanges between the servicing AP and its associated client devices.

In one particular embodiment a servicing AP selects a prime number p. At every p DTIM intervals the servicing AP will send a data solicitation message for example a QoS NULL frame to its associated client devices. Note that the servicing AP is configured with a DTIM interval. Thus at every DTIM interval client devices associated with the servicing AP may wake up and listen for beacon frames transmitted from the servicing AP. However the data solicitation message is sent on a less frequent basis e.g. at every 5 DTIM intervals. Thus at every 5 DTIM intervals the servicing AP may send a beacon frame containing false data indications to all of its client devices in power save mode that the servicing AP has data packets waiting for each power save client device. The prime number p and thus the time interval for data solicitation message is shared between the servicing AP and neighboring APs e.g. via coordination of a control plane device. It is then up to each neighboring AP to determine whether the neighboring AP will switch the operating channel of the servicing AP at every p DTIM intervals to listen for the communication exchanges.

Not all client devices will wake up every DTIM interval. Some client devices may wake up at multiple DTIM intervals selected by the client device e.g. every 2 or 4 DTIM intervals. The prime number is selected such that for these client devices even though they do not wake up at every DTIM interval but at every 2 or 4 DTIM intervals the p DTIM interval will still coincide at regular intervals with the multiple DTIM intervals at which the client device chooses to wake up periodically.

In some embodiments the APs in the same neighborhood may utilize a mechanism to avoid sending their data solicitation messages to their client devices at overlapping intervals. For example all APs in the same neighborhood may be powered up at the same time. However a control plane device can randomly delay the start of service time for each AP in the neighborhood. In some embodiments AP devices may use uniquely random numbers to achieve a randomization delay. Thus the APs will likely avoid overlapping their data solicitation messages. Alternatively when two APs are detected to have a conflicting schedule a control plane device may resolve the conflict by changing one or more of the schedules.

In some embodiments the disclosed system may utilize Round Trip Time RTT exchange mechanism. In general RTT relies on an AP to send a plurality of communication exchange messages. By using the mechanism described above another neighboring AP on a different channel will know when a client device in power save mode that is associated with a servicing AP will be awake. Thus the neighboring AP can switch to the operating channel of the servicing AP prior to the client device becomes awake and start RTT communication exchange messages with the client device. Thus instead of sending a data solicitation message off channel APs can also exchange RTT messages with a client device which typically involves e.g. multiple packet exchanges to collect distance information associated with a particular client device. Note that similar to the signal strength e.g. RSSI the RTT distance measurements can also be used for calculating the location of a particular client device. For example the location engine may use triangulation of three or more RTT distances associated with a particular client device to locate the client device. The RTT distance measurements allow for enhanced location accuracy in a multi channel wireless network.

In some embodiments the packets received from the client device are acknowledgement frames e.g. ACKs .

In some embodiments the location estimation is based on a time period between transmission of packets to the client device and receiving the acknowledgement frames corresponding to the packets transmitted to the client device. Also the location estimation can be based on one or more signal strengths such as RSSIs associated with packets received from the client device.

Moreover a schedule with which beacon frames including the false information for the client device are transmitted is selected based on attributes associated with the client device. The attributes associated with the client device may include but are not limited to whether the client device belongs to a particular list is of particular interest is to be tracked immediately location attributes of the client device the AP with which the client device is associated etc.

In some embodiments the one or more frames received from the client device are responsive to data transmitted by the second network device to the client device. In some embodiments determining the information is further based on frames received by the second network device from the first network device.

Furthermore the time period is identified based on a schedule for transmitting beacon frames by the first network device. In some embodiments the time period is identified based on a schedule for transmitting beacon frames at particular DTIM intervals. In some embodiments the time period is identified based on a schedule of the client device for entering and or exiting a power saving mode. In some embodiments the time period is determined by a controller and is communicated to the first network device and the second network device by a network controller device.

In some embodiments the second network device is configured to switch to the first channel on a subset of time periods during which communication between the first network device and the client device has been scheduled. In other embodiments the second network device is configured to switch from the second channel to the first channel by a network device other than the second network device. An example of the network device other than the second network device could be a network controller device the first network device other access points etc. Specifically a second access point may decide when to switch channel based on a schedule published by a first access point in the neighborhood.

In some embodiments the second network device is an access point configured to provide network access to client devices using the second channel. The information associated with the client device comprises a location of the client device.

In some embodiments the first network device is configured to transmit a beacon frame comprising false information indicating that data for the client device is received by the first network device for the client device wherein no data is received by the first network device for the client device.

In some embodiments the second network device is configured for tracking the client device by switching to any channel on which data is to be transmitted to the client device.

In some embodiments the second network device is configured for tracking the client device by switching to a channel used by any network device in communication with the client device.

Moreover a client device can be assigned to a group based on its radio behavior as determined by monitoring the client device. The network device can later take an action based on the client device belonging to a particular group.

Network device includes at least one or more radio antennas capable of either transmitting or receiving radio signals or both a network interface capable of communicating to a wired or wireless network a processor capable of processing computing instructions and a memory capable of storing instructions and data. Moreover network device further includes a receiving mechanism a transmitting mechanism and a broadcast group determining mechanism all of which are in communication with processor and or memory in network device . Network device may be used as a client system or a server system or may serve both as a client and a server in a distributed or a cloud computing environment.

Radio antenna may be any combination of known or conventional electrical components for receipt of signaling including but not limited to transistors capacitors resistors multiplexers wiring registers diodes or any other electrical components known or later become known.

Network interface can be any communication interface which includes but is not limited to a modem token ring interface Ethernet interface wireless IEEE 802.11 interface cellular wireless interface satellite transmission interface or any other interface for coupling network devices.

Processor can include one or more microprocessors and or network processors. Memory can include storage components such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM etc.

Receiving mechanism generally receives one or more network messages via network interface or radio antenna from a wireless client. The received network messages may include but are not limited to requests and or responses beacon frames management frames control path frames and so on. In some embodiments the packets received by receiving mechanism from the client device are acknowledgement frames e.g. ACKs . Moreover receiving mechanism may receive one or more frames from the client device during a particular time period. In some embodiments one or more frames that receiving mechanism received from the client device are responsive to data transmitted by a second network device to the client device. In some embodiments the second network device is an access point configured to provide network access to client devices using the second channel. The information associated with the client device comprises a location of the client device.

Transmitting mechanism generally transmits messages which include but are not limited to requests and or responses beacon frames management frames control path frames and so on. Transmitting mechanism may be configured by a first access point to transmit a beacon frame on a first channel during a particular time period. Further transmitting mechanism may transmit the beacon frame including the false information to client devices. Subsequent to transmitting the beacon frame to the client device receiving mechanism and transmitting mechanism can exchange one or more packets with the client device.

Scheduling mechanism generally schedules when to transmit a certain type of beacon frames. A schedule with which beacon frames including the false information for the client device are transmitted is selected based on attributes associated with the client device. The attributes associated with the client device may include but are not limited to whether the client device belongs to a particular list is of particular interest is to be tracked immediately location attributes of the client device the AP with which the client device is associated etc. Scheduling mechanism of a second network device such as an access point can identify a time period during which a first network device is scheduled to communicate with a client device on a first channel.

Furthermore the time period is identified based on a schedule for transmitting beacon frames by the first network device. In some embodiments the time period is identified based on a schedule for transmitting beacon frames at particular DTIM intervals. In some embodiments the time period is identified based on a schedule of the client device for entering and or exiting a power saving mode. In some embodiments the time period is determined by a controller and is communicated to the first network device and the second network device by a network controller device.

Beacon generating mechanism generally generates beacon frames to be transmitted to client devices in the network. For example beacon generating mechanism may generate a beacon frame to include false information indicating that data for a client device has been received by first access point and is available for transmission to the client device. The information is false because no data actually has been received by the first access point for transmission to the client device.

Channel switching mechanism generally switches between an operating wireless communication channel and one or more scanning channels that neighboring network devices may operate on. Specifically channel switching mechanism switches from a second channel to the first channel based on the time period scheduled for communication between the first network device and the client device.

In some embodiments channel switching mechanism is configured to switch a second network device to the first channel on a subset of time periods during which communication between the first network device and the client device has been scheduled. In other embodiments channel switching mechanism is configured to switch the second network device from the second channel to the first channel by a network device other than the second network device. An example of the network device other than the second network device could be a network controller device the first network device other access points etc. Specifically a second access point may decide when to switch channel based on a schedule published by a first access point in the neighborhood.

In some embodiments channel switching mechanism is configured for tracking the client device by switching to any channel on which data is to be transmitted to the client device. In some embodiments channel switching mechanism is configured for tracking the client device by switching to a channel used by any network device in communication with the client device.

Determining mechanism generally determines information that facilitates accurate location services in a multi channel wireless network. For example determining mechanism estimates a location of the client device based at least on packets received from the client device on the first channel. In some embodiments the location estimation is based on a time period between transmission of packets to the client device and receiving the acknowledgement frames corresponding to the packets transmitted to the client device. Also the location estimation can be based on one or more signal strengths such as RSSIs associated with packets received from the client device.

In some embodiments determining mechanism determines information associated with the client device based at least on one or more attributes associated with the one or more frames received from the client device. In some embodiments determining mechanism based its determinations on frames received by a second network device from a first network device.

The present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the device such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure also may be embedded in non transitory fashion in a computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

As used herein network device generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station e.g. any data processing equipment such as a computer cellular phone personal digital assistant tablet devices etc. an access point data transfer devices such as network switches routers controllers etc. or the like.

As used herein access point AP generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically the term AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11 based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.

As used herein the term interconnect or used descriptively as interconnected is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information carrying medium. The interconnect may be a wired interconnect wherein the medium is a physical medium e.g. electrical wire optical fiber cable bus traces etc. a wireless interconnect e.g. air in combination with wireless signaling technology or a combination of these technologies.

As used herein information is generally defined as data address control management e.g. statistics or any combination thereof. For transmission information may be transmitted as a message namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message namely a wireless message includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets frames or cells.

As used herein wireless local area network WLAN generally refers to a communications network links two or more devices using some wireless distribution method for example spread spectrum or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing radio and usually providing a connection through an access point to the Internet and thus providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.

As used herein the term mechanism generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions including but not limited to software components electronic components electrical components mechanical components electro mechanical components etc.

As used herein the term embodiment generally refers an embodiment that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting.

