---

title: Practical model based CT construction
abstract: A method for a practical model based computed tomography construction may include assuming that a filtered back projection reconstruction of a computed tomography image is available and acquiring a deviate of a multivariate random variable computed tomography data set. A filtered back projection reconstruction of the image may be estimated, and the filtered back projection reconstruction may be identified as a deviate of a multivariate random variable. A maximum a posteriori estimate may be generated for the filtered back projection reconstruction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495770&OS=09495770&RS=09495770
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 09495770
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140814
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional application No. 61 865 721 filed Aug. 14 2013.

Renal stone disease or renal calculus disease also known as urolithiasis is very common and is increasing in prevalence. Based on National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey NHANES data urolithiasis impacts approximately 1 in 11 people in the United States. NHANES data also demonstrated that obese and overweight individuals have a higher prevalence of kidney stones than normal weight individuals. This disease is associated with estimated recurrence rates of 50 in the first 5 10 years after an episode of renal colic increasing to 75 within 20 years.

Because non contrast helical CT computed tomography NCCT is rapid accurate and diagnoses other pathologies that mimic renal colic NCCT has become a standard for detection and management of this disease and the use of NCCT has risen concomitantly with the increasing incidence of urolithiasis. NCCT rapidly performs a highly sensitive and specific diagnosis of urolithiasis with the ability to both locate calculi and often characterize the composition of the calculi.

NCCT involves exposure to ionizing radiation in order to generate diagnostic images. This exposes patients to potential risks. Estimates reflecting current use suggest that 0.7 2 of future cancers in the United States may be caused by CT associated radiation exposures. In one estimate from 2007 data 29 000 future cancers may be attributable to diagnostic imaging examinations. This poses a significant dilemma for the management of patients with renal stone disease particularly because this patient population is subject to high cumulative radiation exposure. Of additional significance is that medical radiation exposure is now responsible for the majority of effective dose incurred by the US population.

The patient population impacted by urolithiasis is often young and may require repeated CT scans. This poses a significant dilemma for balancing the diagnostic benefits against the risks associated with high cumulative radiation exposure. In this context reducing the radiation dose of the NCCT scan as much as possible becomes an important goal but reducing dose without affecting image quality has conventionally been difficult.

A methodology that has been receiving attention recently to reduce the dose associated with a CT scan is model based iterative reconstruction MBIR . The MBIR methodology offers tremendous potential for dose reduction. MBIR may provide enhanced image quality with less than 1 mSv dose per exam whereas the mean dose for an NCCT scan of the abdomen is 8.5 mSv. Such a dose reduction is enabled by accounting for the statistical distribution of noise in the CT measurements together with the usage of non linear constraints on the image pixel values. MBIR is currently under evaluation in the clinical environment and attractive results have been reported. Unfortunately as discussed hereafter MBIR is currently not a practical solution due to the extensive computational effort used for its implementation.

A fundamental strength of CT is fast patient throughput. In a clinical routine CT exams often last less than 5 minutes and images are produced at a rate of 30 to 40 images per second. By contrast MBIR typically involves hours of reconstruction time for a single patient despite various applied optimizations. An affordable and robust solution for clinical routine usage of MBIR may be delayed until major advances in computing hardware are achieved as well as in the design of the MBIR methodology.

Radiation dose imparted to the patient due to CT scans has become a major concern over the last few years. Model based iterative reconstruction MBIR is a method that shows a lot of potential to reduce dose but this method is computationally prohibitive. We have invented a novel iterative reconstruction scheme that retains the advantages of MBIR while being far more efficient. This approach has same dose savings as model based iterative reconstruction but is much less computationally extensive so that our solution can be used for routine clinical applications of CT. The invention can also be used to reduce the dose associated with routine clinical applications of CT where maintaining workflow is important without affecting diagnostic quality.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the invention so that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and so that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. Other features of the present invention will become clearer from the following detailed description of the invention taken with the accompanying drawings and claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention.

While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that various changes to the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the present invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is presented for purposes of illustration only and not limitation to describe the features and characteristics of the present invention to set forth the best mode of operation of the invention and to sufficiently enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims.

The singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a particle includes reference to one or more of such materials and reference to subjecting refers to one or more such steps.

As used herein with respect to an identified property or circumstance substantially refers to a degree of deviation that is sufficiently small so as to not measurably detract from the identified property or circumstance. The exact degree of deviation allowable may in some cases depend on the specific context.

As used herein adjacent refers to the proximity of two structures or elements. Particularly elements that are identified as being adjacent may be either abutting or connected. Such elements may also be near or close to each other without necessarily contacting each other. The exact degree of proximity may in some cases depend on the specific context.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Concentrations amounts and other numerical data may be presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a numerical range of about 1 to about 4.5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of 1 to about 4.5 but also to include individual numerals such as 2 3 4 and sub ranges such as 1 to 3 2 to 4 etc. The same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value such as less than about 4.5 which should be interpreted to include all of the above recited values and ranges. Further such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristic being described.

Any steps recited in any method or process claims may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented in the claims. Means plus function or step plus function limitations will only be employed where for a specific claim limitation all of the following conditions are present in that limitation a means for or step for is expressly recited and b a corresponding function is expressly recited. The structure material or acts that support the means plus function are expressly recited in the description herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the descriptions and examples given herein.

The following detailed description describes the invention with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. However it will be appreciated that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims. The detailed description and accompanying drawings are to be regarded as merely illustrative rather than as restrictive and all such modifications or changes if any are intended to fall within the scope of the present invention as described and set forth herein.

As a brief overview the present technology provides for a practical MBIR model based iterative reconstruction approach that avoids computational overhead involved in conventional MBIR. Specifically an example method may include acquiring multi spectral x ray tomographic data and reconstructing a plurality of material component density images by formulating the tomographic reconstruction as a maximum a posteriori probability MAP estimation problem and solving the MAP estimation problem. Put differently the method may involve acquiring a deviate of a multivariate random variable CT data set assuming that an FBP filtered back projection reconstruction is available and developing a MAP reconstruction which is based on scalar regularization similarly as in MBIR rather than using the FBP as an initial random starting point for iterative refining which is typically a major source of the heavy computation time for MBIR . The modified model based iterative reconstruction technique of the present technology avoids some of the computationally heavy maneuvers in conventional CT scanning.

The present technology is a practical model based image reconstruction method. The method is significantly less computationally intensive than MBIR while retaining useful properties of MBIR such as accurate noise modeling and application of non linear constraints on the image. The present technology may be referred to as Practical MBIR. Similarly to MBIR the reconstructed image obtained with Practical MBIR is the minimizer of a convex non linear objective function. Practical MBIR can efficiently and accurately compute the covariance between pixels in classical filtered backprojection FBP reconstructions. Mathematical model observers applied to computer simulated data of an anthropomorphic phantom are usable to validate Practical MBIR.

Computation of covariance between pixels can be a very challenging problem. Practical MBIR provides a solution for this computation and may be applicable to other fields of imaging study other than in CT scanning environments. Practical MBIR includes a procedure for assessing image quality such as regarding the generation of signal present in images or regarding statistical analysis of the image quality. Practical MBIR differs significantly from conventional solutions which are largely limited to empirical denoising methods. Similar to MBIR Practical MBIR is a fully model based solution. However unlike MBIR Practical MBIR is currently practical and is also applicable to all patients including obese patients which is particularly relevant for patients with urolithiasis. As noted previously obese and overweight individuals have a higher prevalence of kidney stones.

Before describing further details of Practical MBIR an overview of MBIR will be provided for context and for understanding some similarities and some differences between Practical MBIR and MBIR. MBIR is a model based reconstruction algorithm that iteratively performs some algebraic computations to compare image data to a noise model. The term iterative refers to a computerized guessing game in which the algorithm predicts the correct noise and attenuation information learns if the prediction is too high or too low and then tries again gradually approaching the truth and adjusting the image as a result. MBIR goes back and forth from the slice data to the raw data until coming up with an image that approximates the model. The MBIR algorithm can perform multiple iterations from multiple models. MBIR analyzes the x ray beam from the focal spot then analyzes the shape of the beam as it passes through the patient three dimensionally and again once more as the beam strikes the x ray detector on the other side of the patient.

Let d be the vector that groups together all elements of the fanbeam CT data set as obtained after the log operation . This vector is of length NN where N is the number of views and N is the number of rays per view. Due to photon statistics as well as electronic noise d is a multivariate random variable. To perform a model based reconstruction a statistical model is defined for d. In MBIR d is viewed as a multivariate normal random variable with a diagonal covariance matrix. Hereafter this matrix is called C. Each diagonal element of Cis the variance of one measurement. Let be the number of transmitted photons let E be the expected value of and let be the standard deviation characterizing the electronic noise. Then the variance of the measurement can be expressed as E E where is a constant. Whereas calibration measurements yield and E cannot be measured. To overcome this problem E is replaced by or by a smoothed value of obtained through a local combination of measurements. Since E usually varies widely from one measurement to the next the dynamic range for the diagonal elements of Ctends to be fairly large. To completely specify the statistical model for d an expression must also be given for the expected value of d. This expression is E d A where is a vector that groups together all pixel values forming the desired reconstruction and where A is a matrix representing the forward projection model. A may be defined using a distance driven approach. If the desired reconstruction consists of M M pixels then the length of is M and A consists of NN rows and Mcolumns. A linear relationship is assumed between d and which implies that MBIR cannot account for non linearities in the CT data acquisition process. Correction for these non linearities is applied prior to reconstruction similarly as with a conventional FBP reconstruction.

The MBIR reconstruction is formulated as a maximum a posteriori estimate MAP in the Bayesian framework. The mathematical expression for this estimate is arg max arg max log arg max log log where P denotes a conditional probability and P is a pre specified probability distribution for . Given the statistical model chosen for d this expression can be rewritten in the following more convenient form arg min where U log P and superscript T denotes the transpose operation. A suitable choice for U is the generalized Gaussian Markov random field with a Huber like convex potential function.

An iterative optimization algorithm is needed to compute . The algorithm used may be the coordinate descent method or other suitable algorithm such as based on surrogate functions or augmented Lagrangian. Because the diagonal elements of Ccover a wide dynamic range fast convergence for the computation of is challenging. To alleviate this difficulty a classical FBP reconstruction is used to start the iterative optimization process of MBIR. Although is uniquely defined this initial guess can significantly impact the reconstruction because only a finite number of iterations can be used in practice and the asymptotic convergence rate of iterative reconstruction algorithms is typically very low.

As an item of note a different value has to be used for M when using MBIR for reconstruction instead of an FBP method. Using the latter a region of interest ROI can be selected up front and reconstruction can be performed over this region only. For this reason most CT scanners only offer M 512 and let the technologist determine the ROI over which the pixels have to be distributed. This region can be as large as the field of view FOV diameter i.e. 50 cm and as small as 5 cm and the pixel size can thus vary from 0.01 cm to 0.1 cm. MBIR does not offer this property. MBIR requires the pixels to cover the entire FOV and even more when the patient is obese. Therefore for a non obese patient M must be as large as 1024 for a pixel size of 0.05 cm and as large as 2048 for a pixel size of 0.025 cm. For an obese patient that fills the 70 cm gantry opening of a CT scanner the numbers of M become as large as 1433 and 2866 for pixels size of 0.05 cm and 0.025 cm respectively. This is one of the reasons why an efficient implementation of MBIR is challenging. Aside from requiring a larger M value applying MBIR to patients that extend beyond the FOV poses major difficulties since MBIR attempts to perform accurate reconstruction both inside and outside the FOV whereas reconstruction outside the FOV is a highly ill posed problem. Thus MBIR may never be suitable for obese patients.

Also A is usually very large so that direct storage of A is not practical. In two dimensions where M 1024 N 672 N 2 1160 to account for a flying focal spot A includes approximately 3.5 billion non zero elements which requires about 13 GB of memory in a 32 bit floating point representation assuming 2.2 1024 pixels participate in each measurement which is a reasonable estimate for the distance driven approach . For three dimensions the amount of data to be stored increases significantly.

Turning now to Practical MBIR Practical MBIR is a statistics driven solution that is formulated similarly to MBIR as a maximum a posteriori MAP estimate in the Bayesian framework. As with MBIR a method may start by acknowledging that the CT data set is a deviate of a multivariate random variable. An assumption may be made that a classical FBP reconstruction is available. Next however the method departs from MBIR. Instead of viewing the FBP reconstruction as the initial guess for an iterative optimization procedure an observation may be made that being a function of the CT data the FBP reconstruction is itself a deviate of a multivariate random variable. In the context of the adopted Bayesian framework this observation leads to the following MAP estimate circumflex over arg max arg max log arg max log log where is the FBP reconstruction and log P is the same scalar regularization term as in MBIR. The MAP estimate introduced here may represent the Practical MBIR solution. To move forward from the estimate a statistical model for the CT data may be introduced similarly as with MBIR so that the conditional probability for may be specified. The same statistical model as in MBIR may be used. Under this assumption is a deviate of a multivariate normal random variable. Therefore the Practical MBIR solution can be rewritten in the form circumflex over arg min where C is the covariance matrix for .

In computing this expression of circumflex over some observations can be made. The solution is well defined for any strength. In particular when U 0 which would be acceptable for low noise data the Practical MBIR solution reduces to whereas the MBIR solution becomes unstable due to mismatch between the data and the forward projection model as much as noise . Also Practical MBIR preserves the attractive ROI feature of FBP. That is with Practical MBIR M 512 may be used with discretion given to the technologist to determine the region over which the pixels have to be distributed exactly as in current CT scanners. Further because Practical MBIR preserves the attractive ROI feature of FBP and because satisfactory data truncation handling methods exist for FBP Practical MBIR is well suited for all patients including obese patients.

It is noted that Practical MBIR can either be implemented on a global scale as described above or using partitions. In other words the ROI may be divided into sub regions and the Practical MBIR method may be applied over each sub region and then the sub regions may be recombined together. Applying Practical MBIR to sub regions in this manner can result in Practical MBIR being an even more efficient solution compared with MBIR than it may already be when using the global approach. Merging sub regions together may normally introduce boundary artefacts. However seamless merging can be achieved because the correlation between any two pixels in decreases quickly with the distance between the pixels. Thus some overlap between the subregions may be provided using an overlap length that is commensurate with the distance beyond which correlations between pixels can be neglected. To further reduce potential boundary artefacts only the central part of each sub region may be used for the merging operation.

Note that C is not diagonal and that C is fairly large with a size of M M although not as large as A because M 512 may be used in Practical MBIR. Therefore the development of Practical MBIR presents many challenges such as how to compute C efficiently and accurately storage of C computation of C and so forth. These issues are addressed in the following discussion. Also it is noted that the solutions to these issues are scalable to 3D three dimensional multi slice CT.

At first glance it may appear as though A plays no role in Practical MBIR. However this is misleading because a backprojection algorithm is used to compute . This backprojection can be implemented in many ways including using A. To keep Practical MBIR as close to MBIR as possible FBP may be implemented using Afor the backprojection step with A being the forward projection matrix used in MBIR i.e. the distance driven approach. The present covariance computation method described hereafter can be adjusted accordingly.

Given that the FBP algorithm is linear it is not difficult to obtain an expression for C. Due to the linearity there exists a matrix R such that Rd which yields C RCR. Unfortunately direct use of this expression is not practical since O NNM operations are needed to obtain R. Moreover computing the matrix product requires O NNM operations where O means on the order of . A much more efficient method may be used. The method may be based on an assumption that correlations between pixels in an FBP reconstruction are of short range i.e. a pixel is only significantly correlated with a small number of other pixels called m where m is an odd number. This assumption will be substantiated below. Also the method may be based on findings that the convolution backprojection structure of the FBP algorithm can be transferred to the computation of C. In other words C can be computed as the backprojection of pre filtered data consisting of the non zero elements of C which effectively reduces the number of operations by N. Combining the assumption and findings together brings the number of operations down to O NMm which is entirely acceptable and practical especially if m is small. Generally using a value of m that is less than or equal to 7 is sufficient. Computational costs will be discussed further after other aspects are described.

Most CT manufacturers rebin the data into a parallel beam PB geometry wedge geometry in 3D make use of a flying focal spot and sometimes even interleave data separated by 180 degrees. Practical MBIR is able to accommodate these various features. The accuracy of the present covariance computation method in these CT scanners will be described with reference to . The results in were obtained using a FORBILD head phantom which is widely employed by CT scientists. The phantom may be defined by simple geometric objects such as spheres cylinders ellipsoids or cones. The phantom may provide a simple representation of anatomical structures which are useful in evaluating CT image quality.

Fanbeam CT data were simulated on a short scan with flying focal spot and reconstruction was performed using parallel beam rebinning with an upsampling factor of 2 in each view. To evaluate the ability to predict the noise properties of the reconstruction which are summarized in C 105 fanbeam data sets with Poisson noise were created. Reconstruction from each of these sets was performed and the sample variance and covariance was used to obtain benchmarking estimates of these properties. The noise addition was based on a model that includes a water cylinder compensating bowtie filter and tube current modulation. The scanning parameters were representative of a clinical CT scanner with a detector size equal to 0.075 cm at FOV center and reconstruction was performed with a pixel size of 0.05 cm. illustrate pixel variance computation. illustrates a FORBILD head phantom used to test accuracy of variance and covariance images given by Practical MBIR. illustrates variance images in HU obtained from 10 10and 10noise realizations top left top right bottom left respectively and using Practical MBIR bottom right . illustrates a relative root mean square difference in percentages between Practical MBIR and the sample variance. In a variance image each pixel value is the variance of the pixel located at the same place within the reconstruction. A variance image is a convenient way to display the elements lying on the diagonal of C. The sample variance estimate based on 10noise realizations differs from the Practical MBIR result by only 0.45 .

A covariance image is a convenient way of displaying a row or portion of a row of C. A covariance image displays the covariance between a reference pixel and the pixels that surround the reference pixel. The central pixel value in a covariance image is thus equal to the variance of the reference pixel. The reference pixel that was selected here is identified by the white dot in . The comparison of covariance images in shows that a pixel is only significantly correlated with a small number m of surrounding pixels and m decreases as the pixel size increases. Because the covariance image with pixel size of 0.01 cm exhibits more structure the Practical MBIR was validated using the pixel size of 0.01 mm see . The sample covariance estimate based on 10noise realizations differs from our results by only 3.03 .

The results presented thus far for computation of C assumed that the variance of the CT data is exactly known which is not realistic. Practical MBIR may thus use a covariance computation method that relies only on the patient CT scan. This is analogous to MBIR where statistical weights have to be estimated because E is not available. The same approach as in MBIR may be used. In other words the variance of each measurement may be estimated by or a smoothed version of this estimate. This approach was validated using computer simulated data as shown in .

A relative root mean square difference of less than 1.05 was observed for both variance and covariance computation. Two additional effects were also tested including i the impact of the presence absence of a stone 3 mm 600 HU and ii spatial dependence of the covariance image. The first test showed that the impact of the stone presence on variance covariance was less than 5 . The second test showed that covariance images vary slowly with the position of the reference pixel. Based on this computation of C may be further sped up. Rather than computing all rows of C only a fraction of these rows can be computed using reference pixels that correspond to a downsampled version of the reconstruction and interpolation will yield the other rows. In addition to downsampling a coarser discretization of the analytical integral the view angle which is approximated by the formula underlying the efficient variance covariance computation can yield comparable results with an increase in speed by a factor of 2 to 3 by further reducing computational effort.

Given the foregoing the number of operations to compute C is O N 2 Mm q in 2D and O N 2 MN m q in 3D where q is the downsampling factor and N is the number of slices. For m 7 and q 4 this cost is about that of 4 FBP reconstructions which is far from being prohibitive especially since M 512. Moreover unlike in MBIR all operations are in the parallel beam PB wedge geometry which provides another acceleration factor of about 4 over the computation of A . In some instances using q 4 be too much downsampling in the axial direction for a large slice thickness but then m 7 would also be too large so that m q 2 is reasonable. Since computation of C may involve the equivalent computation of 4 FBP reconstructions storing C in memory is contemplated. In 2D the size of C is insignificant. In 3D M q N q m4 byte floating point numbers are used to store C. Thus in 3D for M 512 N 300 m 7 and q 4 only 1.6 gigabytes of storage or memory is used which is practical. This number can be further reduced by using a small amount of partitioning across slices.

Regarding the issue of Cmentioned previously computing Cmay seem prohibitive. However this can be overcome with a change of variables. Using Cx it is observed that circumflex over Ccircumflex over x with circumflex over arg min which is much easier to solve since Cis not needed anymore. To compute circumflex over x the iterative coordinate descent method in MBIR may be used. Because the correlation between pixels are short range high parallelization is possible. In other words many elements of x can be updated independently so that the effort for computation of circumflex over x is not much of a concern.

Referring to a simplistic block diagram of a tomographic imaging system is illustrated in accordance with an example of the present technology. The system may include an x ray source configured to generate a beam of radiation. The system may further include a detector or detector array configured to receive the beam of radiation. The x ray source and the detector may be contained within a gantry of a CT device . An image reconstructor may be a part of the CT device or may be a computing device in communication with the CT device. For example the image reconstructor may be in communication with the X ray source and the detector array for receiving image data.

The image reconstructor may be configured to estimate a filtered back projection reconstruction of the image specify a statistical model for a conditional probability of the filtered back projection reconstruction of the image and calculate a reconstruction of the image based on the estimated filtered back projection reconstruction and the conditional probability. The image reconstructor may be further configured to calculate a covariance matrix for the filtered back projection reconstruction as a backprojection of pre filtered data consisting of the non zero elements of a diagonal covariance matrix.

The image reconstructor may be a computing device or may be implemented on a computing device the computing device including a processor and a memory. The memory may be a memory device. The memory device may be configured for storing the covariance matrix. A capacity of the memory device may vary between applications. However in one example storing the covariance matrix may use less than 2 gigabytes of capacity of the memory device. The image reconstructor may be further configured to compute the covariance matrix for three dimensions at a computational cost corresponding to approximately four filtered back projection reconstructions. In other words the covariance matrix may be computed at a fraction of the computing cost of conventional MBIR.

In one example the image reconstructor may be configured to identify a short range of correlations between pixels in the reconstruction. The number of pixels within the short range is m. m may be an odd number less than or equal to 5 or 7 or 9 for example. The image reconstructor may be further configured to set a downsampling factor of the reconstruction that is whole number approximately half the value of m.

Additional example details operations options variations etc. that may be part of the method have been described previously herein and or are described in further detail below. Various systems devices components modules and so forth for implementing the method may also be used as described with respect to the various examples included in this disclosure.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method is illustrated in accordance with an example of the present technology. The method may include being implemented on a computing device. The computing device may include a processor a memory in electronic communication with the processor and instructions stored in the memory. The instructions may be executable by the processor to perform the method of .

The method may include estimating a filtered back projection reconstruction of the image. The method may further include specifying a statistical model for a conditional probability of the filtered back projection reconstruction of the image. A reconstruction of the image may be calculated based on the estimated filtered back projection reconstruction and the conditional probability. The method may further include performing the estimating specifying and calculating across an entire region of interest of the image. In an alternative example the method may include dividing a region of interest of the image into sub regions and estimating specifying and calculating across each of the sub regions separately. After estimating specifying and calculating across each of the sub regions the method may include combining the sub regions together. When dividing the region of interest into the sub regions the sub regions may be divided to include a region of overlap with adjacent sub regions.

The method may include calculating a maximum a posteriori estimate in a Bayesian framework using the formula circumflex over arg max arg max log arg max log log where circumflex over is the reconstruction is a vector for grouping pixel values forming the reconstruction is the estimated filtered back projection reconstruction and log P is a scalar regularization term. The method may still further include specifying a conditional probability for where is a deviate of a multivariate normal random variable the formula is rewritten as circumflex over arg min where C is a covariance matrix for U is a Guassian Markov random field with a Huber like convex potential function and T represents a transpose operation. In one example the covariance matrix may be calculated by computing a subset of rows of the covariance matrix using reference pixels that correspond to a downsampled version of the reconstruction and interpolating a remainder of the rows.

The method may include defining a number of pixels in the reconstruction in one dimension as 512 for example. The method may also include receiving input specifying selection of a region of interest over which the pixels are to be distributed.

Referring now to a flow diagram of another method is illustrated in accordance with an example of the present technology. The method may be a computer implemented method. The method may include assuming that a filtered back projection reconstruction of a computed tomography image is available and acquiring a deviate of a multivariate random variable computed tomography data set. A filtered back projection reconstruction of the image may be estimated and the filtered back projection reconstruction may be identified as a deviate of a multivariate random variable. A maximum a posteriori estimate may be generated for the filtered back projection reconstruction.

In a further example the method may include estimating the filtered back projection reconstruction for subjects that extend beyond a field of view for a computed tomography device used to acquire the computed tomography image. Thus the method may be applied to obese or overweight individuals.

Similarly as mentioned in the description of the method illustrated in additional example details operations options variations etc. that may be part of the method illustrated in have been described previously herein and or are described in further detail below. Various systems devices components modules and so forth for implementing the method may also be used as described with respect to the various examples included in this disclosure.

The memory device may contain modules that are executable by the processor s and data for the modules. A data store may also be located in the memory device for storing data related to the modules and other applications along with an operating system that is executable by the processor s .

Various applications may be stored in the memory device and may be executable by the processor s . Components or modules discussed in this description that may be implemented in the form of software using high programming level languages that are compiled interpreted or executed using a hybrid of the methods.

The computing device may also have access to I O input output devices that are usable by the computing devices. An example of an I O device is a display screen that is available to display output from the computing devices. Other known I O device may be used with the computing device as desired. Networking devices and similar communication devices may be included in the computing device . The networking devices may be wired or wireless networking devices that connect to the internet a LAN WAN or other computing network.

The components or modules that are shown as being stored in the memory device may be executed by the processor . The term executable may mean a program file that is in a form that may be executed by a processor . For example a program in a higher level language may be compiled into machine code in a format that may be loaded into a random access portion of the memory device and executed by the processor or source code may be loaded by another executable program and interpreted to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by a processor . The executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory device . For example the memory device may be random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory a solid state drive memory card a hard drive optical disk floppy disk magnetic tape or any other memory components.

The processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memory units that operate in parallel to the processing circuits. This may provide parallel processing channels for the processes and data in the system. The local interface may be used as a network to facilitate communication between any of the multiple processors and multiple memories. The local interface may use additional systems designed for coordinating communication such as load balancing bulk data transfer and similar systems.

While the flowcharts presented for this technology may imply a specific order of execution the order of execution may differ from what is illustrated. For example the order of two more blocks may be rearranged relative to the order shown. Further two or more blocks shown in succession may be executed in parallel or with partial parallelization. In some configurations one or more blocks shown in the flow chart may be omitted or skipped. Any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement troubleshooting or for similar reasons.

Some of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module when joined logically together.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

The technology described here may also be stored on a computer readable storage medium that includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented with any technology for the storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer readable storage media include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tapes magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other computer storage medium which may be used to store the desired information and described technology. The computer readable storage medium may for example be in the form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium. As used herein the terms medium and media may be interchangeable with no intended distinction of singular or plural application unless otherwise explicitly stated. Thus the terms medium and media may each connote singular and plural application.

The devices described herein may also contain communication connections or networking apparatus and networking connections that allow the devices to communicate with other devices. Communication connections are an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. A modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes communication media.

It is noted that any of the distributed system implementations described above or any of their components may be implemented as one or more web services. In some implementations a web service may be implemented by a software and or hardware system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. A web service may have an interface described in a machine processable format such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Other systems may interact with the web service in a manner prescribed by the description of the web service s interface. For example the web service may define various operations that other systems may invoke and may define a particular application programming interface API to which other systems may be expected to conform when requesting the various operations.

Reference was made to the examples illustrated in the drawings and specific language was used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the technology is thereby intended. Alterations and further modifications of the features illustrated herein and additional applications of the examples as illustrated herein which would occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure are to be considered within the scope of the description.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more examples. In the preceding description numerous specific details were provided such as examples of various configurations to provide a thorough understanding of examples of the described technology. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the technology may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components devices etc. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the technology.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or operations it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features and operations described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the described technology.

