---

title: Methods and apparatus to identify media distributed via a network
abstract: Methods, apparatus, systems and articles of manufacture to monitor media presentations are disclosed. An example method includes extracting first network packet parameters from a first network packet received at a media device when retrieving a first encrypted web page, storing, at the media device, the first network packet parameters in association with a uniform resource locator for the first encrypted web page, the uniform resource locator received from an extension in a web browser at the media device, extracting second network packet parameters from a second network packet received at the media device from an unknown encrypted web page, when the extension is inoperative, comparing the second network packet parameters to the first network packet parameters, and identifying the unknown encrypted web page as the first encrypted web page when the comparison of the second network packet to the first network packet parameters has a similarity above a threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516001&OS=09516001&RS=09516001
owner: THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US), LLC
number: 09516001
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141010
---
This patent claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 058 055 filed Sep. 30 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to audience measurement and more particularly to methods and apparatus to monitor media presentations.

Media providers and or other entities such as for example advertising companies broadcast networks etc. are often interested in the viewing listening and or media behavior of audience members and or the public in general. To monitor this behavior an audience measurement company may enlist panelists e.g. persons agreeing to be monitored to cooperate in an audience measurement study. The media usage and or exposure habits of these panelists as well as demographic data about the panelists is collected and used to statistically determine the size and demographics of a larger audience of interest.

In recent years security of online communications has increased in importance due to privacy concerns financial data concerns etc. One method of providing security to online transactions is the use of encryption. In particular encrypted online communication protocols e.g. hypertext transport secure HTTPS have grown in popularity. Such protocols provide end to end encryption to prevent a third party from intercepting and observing the contents of communications.

To monitor encrypted media communications audience measurement entities often employ tools that interact with media presentation applications that reveal information about the media. For example an extension may be added to a web browser to gather information about webpages and or other media and to report the gathered information to a panelist meter executing on the same media presentation device e.g. computer as the web browser. Because the extension executes within the browser the extension has access to the decrypted contents of encrypted media e.g. media transferred using HTTPS .

The figures are not to scale. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawing s and accompanying written description to refer to the same or like parts.

Media monitoring using browser extensions can provide reliable results but browser extension operation is subject to interruption. For example a browser extension may become inoperative following an update of the browser extension may be disabled by security software may be accidently disabled by a user etc. Methods and apparatus disclosed herein facilitate monitoring of online media that may be used when a browser extension becomes inoperative or is otherwise unavailable.

As used herein the term media includes any type of content and or advertisement delivered via any type of distribution medium. Thus media includes television programming and or advertisements radio programming and or advertisements movies web sites streaming media etc. Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein monitor media presentations at media devices. Such media devices may include for example Internet enabled televisions personal computers Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone video game consoles e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 tablet computers e.g. an iPad digital media players e.g. a Roku media player a Slingbox etc. etc. In some examples media monitoring information is aggregated to determine ownership and or usage statistics of media devices relative rankings of usage and or ownership of media devices types of uses of media devices e.g. whether a device is used for browsing the Internet streaming media from the Internet etc. and or other types of media device information. In some examples media monitoring information is aggregated by media identity to determine usage of the media exposure of the media etc. In examples disclosed herein monitoring information includes but is not limited to media identifying information e.g. media identifying metadata codes signatures watermarks and or other information that may be used to identify presented media application usage information e.g. an identifier of an application a time and or duration of use of the application a rating of the application etc. and or user identifying information e.g. demographic information a panelist identifier a username etc. .

Audio watermarking is a technique used to identify media such as television broadcasts radio broadcasts advertisements television and or radio downloaded media streaming media prepackaged media etc. Existing audio watermarking techniques identify media by embedding one or more audio codes e.g. one or more watermarks such as media identifying information and or an identifier that may be mapped to media identifying information into an audio and or video component. In some examples the audio or video component is selected to have a signal characteristic sufficient to hide the watermark. As used herein the terms code or watermark are used interchangeably and are defined to mean any identification information e.g. an identifier that may be inserted or embedded in the audio or video of media e.g. a program or advertisement for the purpose of identifying the media or for another purpose such as tuning e.g. a packet identifying header . As used herein media refers to audio and or visual still or moving content and or advertisements. To identify watermarked media the watermark s are extracted and used to access a table of reference watermarks that are mapped to media identifying information.

Unlike media monitoring techniques based on codes and or watermarks included with and or embedded in the monitored media fingerprint or signature based media monitoring techniques generally use one or more inherent characteristics of the monitored media during a monitoring time interval to generate a substantially unique proxy for the media. Such a proxy is referred to as a signature or fingerprint and can take any form e.g. a series of digital values a waveform etc. representative of any aspect s of the media signal s e.g. the audio and or video signals forming the media presentation being monitored . A good signature is one that is repeatable when processing the same media presentation but that is unique relative to other e.g. different presentations of other e.g. different media. Accordingly the term fingerprint and signature are used interchangeably herein and are defined herein to mean a proxy for identifying media that is generated from one or more inherent characteristics of the media.

Signature based media monitoring generally involves determining e.g. generating and or collecting signature s representative of a media signal e.g. an audio signal and or a video signal output by a monitored media device and comparing the monitored signature s to one or more references signatures corresponding to known e.g. reference media sources. Various comparison criteria such as a cross correlation value a Hamming distance etc. can be evaluated to determine whether a monitored signature matches a particular reference signature. When a match between the monitored signature and one of the reference signatures is found the monitored media can be identified as corresponding to the particular reference media represented by the reference signature that with matched the monitored signature. Because attributes such as an identifier of the media a presentation time a broadcast channel etc. are collected for the reference signature these attributes may then be associated with the monitored media whose monitored signature matched the reference signature. Example systems for identifying media based on codes and or signatures are long known and were first disclosed in Thomas U.S. Pat. No. 5 481 294 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The example media provider of the illustrated example of includes one or more servers providing Internet media e.g. web pages audio video images etc. . The example media provider of may be implemented by any provider s of media such as a digital media broadcaster a multicaster a unicaster e.g. a cable television service a fiber optic television service an IPTV provider etc. an on demand digital media provider e.g. an Internet streaming video and or audio service such as Netflix YouTube Hulu Pandora Last.fm etc. a web page e.g. an online store such as Amazon.com and or any other provider and or creator of media. Additionally or alternatively the example media provider may not be an Internet provider. For example the media provider may be on a private a virtual private and or semi private network e.g. a LAN .

The example network of the illustrated example of is a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. However in some examples local networks may additionally or alternatively be used. For example multiple networks e.g. a cellular network an Ethernet network etc. may be utilized to implement the example network of .

The example media device of the illustrated example shown in is a device that retrieves media from the media provider for presentation. In some examples the media device is capable of directly presenting media e.g. via a display while in other examples the media device presents the media on separate media presentation equipment e.g. speakers a display etc. . Thus as used herein media devices may or may not be able to present media without assistance from a second device. Media devices are typically consumer electronics. For example the media device of the illustrated example is a personal computer such as a laptop computer and thus is capable of directly presenting media e.g. via an integrated and or connected display and speakers . While in the illustrated example a personal computer is shown any other type s and or number s of media device s may additionally or alternatively be used. For example Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone an iPod etc. video game consoles e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 etc. tablet computers e.g. an iPad a Motorola Xoom etc. digital media players e.g. a Roku media player a Slingbox a Tivo etc. smart televisions desktop computers laptop computers servers etc. may additionally or alternatively be used.

The web browser of the illustrated example of is an application that requests receives and presents media e.g. webpages . For example the web browser of the illustrated example downloads media from the example media provider via the example network . The example web browser of the illustrated example is instrumented to include monitoring functionality via a browser extension provided by the monitoring entity via e.g. the monitoring entity hosting the central facility . While the web browser of the example of any other type of application that may retrieve and or present media may be utilized.

The media device data store of the illustrated example stores metering information collected by the panelist meter . The example media device data store of the illustrated example of may be any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. In the illustrated example the media device data store is random access memory of the media device . Furthermore the data stored in the media device data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the media device data store is illustrated as a single database the media device data store may be implemented by multiple databases e.g. distributed in two or more devices and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the media device.

The example central facility of provides the panelist meter including the extension to the media device . During installation and or registration of the panelist meter on the media device the central facility receive user identifying information e.g. demographic information for a user s of the media device . Additionally the central facility receives metering information collected by a plurality of the panelist meters operating on a plurality of media devices . The central facility aggregates the collected metering information to generate reports regarding exposure to the media. For example the central facility of this example compiles media exposure metrics based on the correlation of the metering information and the user identifying information. A report is then generated to indicate media exposure audience size and or audience characteristics e.g. demographics . In some examples the exposure measurements provide ratings information for different media e.g. a particular website a particular video etc. In some examples the exposure measurements indicate ratings information and or usage statistics for different media provided by the media provider and or a plurality of media providers . The example central facility of is associated with a neutral audience measurement entity that ensures that validity and integrity of the exposure metrics. Alternatively the central facility may be associated with any other entity.

The example panelist meter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other circuitry e.g. a dedicated circuit . For example the panelist meter may be a component built into the media device a component communicatively coupled to the media device etc. The panelist meter may be implemented by adding the functionality disclosed herein to an existing panelist meter e.g. the NetSight panelist meter software from The Nielsen Company US LLC . In the illustrated example the panelist meter is downloaded to the media device from the central facility and or another server of the audience measurement entity. In the illustrated example the extension is installed in conjunction with the installation of the panelist meter . Alternatively the panelist meter and or the extension may be delivered to and or installed in the media device in any other manner. The panelists are users registered on panels maintained by a ratings entity e.g. an audience measurement company that owns and or operates the ratings entity subsystem. Alternatively the panelist meter may be installed on computing devices from other types of panelists and or any other type of user.

The example panelist meter cooperates with the extension to meter media presentation at the media device . The example extension collects information from media presented by the web browser e.g. media retrieved from the media provider and transmits the information to the panelist meter . The extension of the example of collects a uniform resource locator URL e.g. from page information reported by the web browser for media presented in the example web browser . Alternatively the extension may collect any other identifying information or other types of information. For example the extension may determine e.g. extract transform derive decode convert etc. media identifying metadata e.g. such as media identifying information source identifying information a watermark a code etc. associated with and or transmitted with the media e.g. in an ID3 tag in a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Live Streaming HLS manifest in a Moving Pictures Experts Group version 2 MPEG2 transport stream in a Moving Pictures Experts Group version 4 MPEG4 transport stream in a timed text track in an encryption key associated with the media etc. . The media identifying metadata may be a code in for example a text or binary format located in an ID3 tag associated with the media. In some examples the extension converts the information into a text and or binary format for transmission to the panelist meter .

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 828 971 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IDENTIFYING A USER OF AN ELECTRONIC DEVICE and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 489 390 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS TO MONITOR MEDIA PRESENTATIONS disclose methods and apparatus to obtain user consent for monitoring and collect monitoring information. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 828 971 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 489 390 are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The example extension of is included within the web browser to allow the extension to access media presented by the browser. For example when media is encrypted during transmission e.g. a web page transmitted using HTTPS the example extension has access to the media after it is decrypted by the web browser but the example panelist meter does not have access to the unencrypted media. While the example extension is installed within the web browser the extension or another component may be installed or located in another place that enables access to the media e.g. unencrypted media . For example the web browser could be configured to share the unencrypted media with the panelist meter the media device could be configured to share the unencrypted media with the panelist meter the extension could be located in the media device or another network component in a manner that provides access to the unencrypted media e.g. using man in the middle interception etc.

The example panelist meter of records the information collected by the extension to meter presentation of the media. According to the illustrated example the panelist meter stores collected information in the data store until such time as the information is transmitted to the central facility . Alternatively the panelist meter could transmit the information to the central facility upon receipt e.g. as a stream in real time .

In addition to recording and transmitting information collected by the example extension the example panelist meter collects information that enables the panelist meter to identify media in instances when the extension is inoperative or is otherwise unavailable e.g. when an update to the web browser breaks compatibility with the extension . In particular the example panelist meter collects network data associated with the media presented by the web browser and stores characteristics e.g. packet parameters such as header information of the network data in association with the URL collected by the extension e.g. during times that the extension is operational to train a reference database. Accordingly when the extension is not operational the panelist meter continues to collect the network data e.g. without assistance from the extension and compares the network data e.g. the packet parameters against the trained reference database in the data store to predict a URL that is associated with the network data.

For example when media is transmitted using HTTPS the panelist meter cannot extract the URL for the media from the network data because the network data is encrypted and the panelist meter cannot decrypt the network data to access the payloads of the encrypted network data. However some information is available from the network data. The example panelist meter determines the amount of time taken to transfer the media e.g. the duration of the communication from the media provider to the media device a source hostname e.g. a hostname for a server serving the media which is often not the same as the hostname of the URL for the media a destination hostname and a size of the network data e.g. a packet size . When training the reference database the panelist meter stores the collected parameters in the data store in association with the URL received from the example extension e.g. parameters from all network traffic collected within 2 seconds of a URL received from the extension may be associated with the extension . Later when the extension is not available or the URL is otherwise not available the panelist meter collects the parameters from network data compares the parameters to the data in the reference database to determine similarity scores and determines the URL based on the similarity score e.g. determines the URL to be the URL associated with the reference data that has the best similarity score .

The example data monitor of monitors network communications at the media device to collect information from network traffic carrying media presented by the example web browser of . For example the data monitor may operate as a packet sniffer may operate as a proxy server may query an application programming interface API of an operating system of the media device may communicate with a network element communicatively coupled to the media device e.g. a router a switch a gateway a firewall etc. and or may obtain network data in any other manner.

The example parameter extractor of the example of processes the network data to extract information of interest to the panelist meter . For example the example parameter extractor extracts packet header information to determine the following parameters durations of communications e.g. by comparing timestamps of packets destination and source hostnames and packet sizes. Additionally or alternatively the parameter extractor may extract any other information contained in a packet e.g. hardware addresses checksums sequence numbers any transmission control protocol TCP parameters any internet protocol IP parameters any hypertext transport protocol parameters etc. . In instances where the network data is not encrypted the parameter extractor may extract additional information about the media e.g. the URL for the media .

To determine where to send the collected parameters the example parameter extractor determines if the extension of is operational within the web browser . For example the parameter extractor of the illustrated example queries the browser extension data receiver to determine if data has been received from the extension e.g. within a threshold time such as 2 seconds 4 seconds 30 seconds etc. of the network communication monitored by the data monitor . When data has not been received from the extension within the threshold period of time the parameter extractor of the illustrated example determines that the extension is not operational. Alternatively the parameter extractor may utilize other methods to determine the operational state of the extension e.g. may query the web browser may query an operating system of the media device etc. .

The example parameter extractor of selectively transmits the collected parameters to the data store interface or the identifier based on the operational state of the extension . According to the illustrated example when the extension is operational the example parameter extractor transmits the parameters to the example data store interface for storage in the data store in association with identifying information collected by the extension and received by the browser extension data receiver . When the extension is not operational the example parameter extractor transmits the parameters to the example identifier to predict identifying information associated with the media as described in further detail below in conjunction with the description of the example identifier . Alternatively the parameter extractor may transmit the parameters to the data store interface and the identifier regardless of the operational state of the extension .

The example browser extension data receiver of receives information collected by the extension of . The example extension of collects information about web pages presented by the media device and transmits the information to the browser extension data receiver . For example the collected information may be PAGEINFO data. The following illustrates example PAGEINFO data 

The example browser extension data receiver of transmits the received information to the data store interface . The browser extension data receiver may additionally or alternatively provide information to the parameter extractor . For example the browser extension data receiver may provide information to the parameter extractor to enable the parameter extractor to determine if the extension of is operational e.g. a time of last communication with the extension a notification from the extension about its operational state etc. .

The data store interface of the illustrated example receives information collected by the extension of via the browser extension data receiver and parameters extracted from network data via the parameter extractor . The example data store interface stores the information and parameters in the example data store . For example the example data store interface adds a session record including the parameters to a training record associated with the URL identified in the information from the extension each time that a session is detected in the network data. Alternatively the information and parameters may be stored and or associated in any other manner.

Additionally the example data store interface retrieves stored data from the data store to facilitate prediction of identifying information by the example identifier . For example when the extension is not operational the identifier compares parameters extracted from network data by the parameter extractor with parameters stored in training records in the data store . Once the identifier has predicted the identifying information the data store interface stores the information in the data store to record the exposure to the associated media.

Periodically and or aperiodically the data store interface transmits data stored in the data store to the central facility . The example data store interface transmits web page identifying information e.g. identifying information received from the extension when it is operational and predicted identifying information received from the identifier when the extension is not operational . Alternatively any other information may be transmitted. For example the data store interface may transmit the training records containing the parameters extracted by the parameter extractor to enable the central facility to share the parameters with other media devices .

The identifier of the illustrated example receives parameters extracted by the parameters extractor e.g. when the extension is not operational and analyzes the parameters to predict identifying information e.g. a URL for the parameters. The example identifier retrieves training records stored in the data store via the data store interface compares the received parameters to each set of parameters stored in the session records of the training records to determine similarity scores e.g. a Jaccard similarity coefficient and aggregates e.g. averages the similarity scores to determine a similarity score for each training record. The identifier of the illustrated example determines that the identifying information for the received parameters is the identifying information associated with the training record that had the best similarity score. In some examples the identifier compares the best similarity score with a threshold to determine if the similarity is sufficient to make a prediction. In such an example if the similarity score does not meet the threshold the identifier may determine that identifying information cannot be predicted.

The example identifier of utilizes a Jaccard similarity coefficient to determine a similarity between a set of received parameters e.g. a set of parameters comprising a duration a source hostname a destination hostname and a size with a set of parameters stored in a session record of a training record. The Jaccard similarity coefficient is a statistic for comparing similarity of sets 

After the example identifier has determined identifying information the identifying information is transmitted to the data store interface for storage in the data store e.g. to create a record of the exposure to the web page associated with the identifying information .

In some examples the identifier may additionally compute a similarity score when parameters are added to a training record e.g. when the extension is operational . For example the identifier may retrieve the training record for a URL identified in the information received from the extension may compare the received parameters to each session record to compute a set of similarity scores and may aggregate e.g. average the similarity scores to determine a confidence score that may indicate the confidence level of the training record. The confidence level may be stored in the data store and during prediction e.g. when the extension is not operational the identifier may ignore training records for which the confidence level does not meet a minimum threshold e.g. 50 confidence of accuracy.

While the components and associated operations of the panelist meter of are described as operating as part of the panelist meter in the media device of some or all of the components may be located in other places. For example the panelist meter may include only the data monitor and may transmit the data to a parameter extractor located at the central facility . In such an example the parameter extractor the browser extension data receiver the data store interface the identifier and the data store could be located at the central facility such that the training process and identification process described herein could be performed at the central facility based on data collected by the panelist meter and or other panelist meters of other devices. Additionally or alternatively this disclosure is not limited to a particular allocation of components. Other location configurations are within the scope of this disclosure. In some examples training data may be utilized only with the media device from which the training data is collected. In other examples training data may be shared among training devices e.g. by performing identification using shared data at the central facility and or by distributing training data to other media devices . For example training data may be shared among similar devices e.g. devices of the same type e.g. among laptops among mobile devices etc. devices utilizing the same operating system devices operated by user of the same demographic group devices owned by the same user s etc. . Alternatively the training data may not be shared in instances where the training data is confidential or not applicable to other devices e.g. due to differences in network timing associated with particular devices .

While example manners of implementing the example panelist meter are illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example media device the example web browser the example extension the example data store the example panelist meter and or the example central facility of and or the example data monitor the example parameter extractor the example browser extension identifier the example data store interface and or the example identifier of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example media device the example web browser the example extension the example data store the example panelist meter and or the example central facility of and or the example data monitor the example parameter extractor the example browser extension identifier the example data store interface and or the example identifier of could be implemented by one or more analog or digital circuit s logic circuits programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s . When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example media device the example web browser the example extension the example data store the example panelist meter and or the example central facility of and or the example data monitor the example parameter extractor the example browser extension identifier the example data store interface and or the example identifier of is are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk CD a Blu ray disk etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example panelist meter of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the example panelist meter of are shown in . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise program s for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example media device discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program s are described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in many other methods of implementing the example panelist meter may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein tangible computer readable storage medium and tangible machine readable storage medium are used interchangeably. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer and or machine readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended.

The process of begins when the data monitor of the example panelist meter of detects network data e.g. by sniffing the packet data transmitted to from the web browser block . The example parameter extractor extracts parameters from the identifying data block . For example the example parameter extractor of extracts a duration a source hostname a destination hostname and a size. The example parameter extractor then determines if the example extension of the web browser on the media device of is operational block . When the extension is not operational the example process proceeds to example process which is discussed below in conjunction with .

When the extension is operational block the browser extension data receiver receives information from the extension block . According to the illustrated example the browser extension data receiver receives a URL extracted by the extension from a web page that is being presented by the web browser . Alternatively any other information provided by the extension may be collected by the browser extension data receiver .

The data store interface then queries the example data store for the page information associated with the URL received from the extension block . The data store interface determines if a training record exists for the URL block . When a training record does not exist the data store interface creates a new training record for the URL and stores the parameters extracted at block in a new session record for the training record block .

When an existing training record exists for the URL block the example identifier computes an updated similarity score e.g. a confidence level by determining the similarity of the parameters extracted in block with the parameters contained in session records of the existing training record block . The data store interface then stores the similarity score and a new session record containing the parameters in the training record in the data store block .

After a new training record has been create in block or an existing training record has been updated in block the example data store interface transmits page information to the central facility to record the exposure to the web page presented by the web browser block . Alternatively the data store interface may store records until a threshold number of records have been collected or a duration of time has passed and transmit a plurality of page information records to the central facility.

After the page information has been transmitted to the central facility according to the example process control returns to block to await detection of data by the data monitor .

The data store interface then determines if there are additional training records to be analyzed block . When there are additional training records control returns to block to compute a similarity score for remaining training records.

When similarity scores have been determined for all training records e.g. all training records that include a confidence level that exceeds a threshold block the example identifier determines if a matching training record has been found block . For example the matching training record may be determined to be the training record for which the best similarity score was determined. However the similarity score may be compared with a threshold to determine if the best similarity score is sufficient to establish a match. When a match is not found the identifier causes the data store interface to transmit the parameters from block to the central facility with an indication that a match could not be found block . The central facility may analyze the information to determine an identity e.g. by comparing the parameters with training records received from other locations may record an error notification etc. Alternatively the identifier may cause the data store interface to store the parameters from block in the data store for later transmission to the central facility or the identifier may skip the parameters from block and await new data.

Returning to block when the identifier identifies a training record that is a sufficient match with the parameters from block the identifier causes the data store interface to retrieve the page information e.g. URL associated with the matching training record block . The data store interface then transmits the page information to the central facility to record the exposure to the web page presented by the web browser block . Alternatively the data store interface may store records until a threshold number of records have been collected or a duration of time has passed and transmit a plurality of page information records to the central facility.

Example machine readable instructions to compute similarity scores for example data are attached as an appendix are incorporated in this disclosure. The example machine readable instructions are written in the Ruby programming language. However machine readable instructions as disclosed herein may be written in any one or more programming language. The example data analyzed by the example machine readable instructions are also attached.

The media device of the illustrated example includes a processor . The processor of the illustrated example is silicon based hardware. For example the processor can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits logic circuits microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor of the illustrated example includes a local memory e.g. a cache . The example processor of executes the instructions of to implement the example data monitor the example parameter extractor the example browser extension data receiver the example data store interface and the example identifier of . The processor of the illustrated example is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The media device of the illustrated example also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

In the illustrated example one or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit s a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example an audio sensor a microphone a camera still or video a keyboard a button a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit of the illustrated example. The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a light emitting diode LED an organic light emitting diode OLED a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a touchscreen a tactile output device a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit of the illustrated example thus typically includes a graphics driver card a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.

The interface circuit of the illustrated example also includes a communication device such as a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a modem and or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines e.g. computing devices of any kind via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The media device of the illustrated example also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and or data. The example mass storage device includes the data store . Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives Blu ray disk drives RAID systems and digital versatile disk DVD drives.

The coded instructions of may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

Example systems disclosed herein enable monitoring of for example online media. In some examples media that is encrypted e.g. media communicated via HTTPS may be monitored when a panelist meter is not able to access the decrypted media e.g. when a browser extension is not available and or the encryption prevents a panelist meter from accessing the payload of encrypted media packets. In disclosed examples this monitoring is accomplished by extracting parameters from the packets carrying the encrypted data and comparing the parameters against reference records of parameters e.g. parameters extracted when a browser extension is operative and gathering identifying information . Because reference parameters are collected at the media device at which the reference parameters will later be analyzed the accuracy of the system is improved as compared with distributing reference parameters from a central facility to a plurality of media devices . Improved accuracy may be obtained by utilized parameters that reflect the local experience of the affected media device e.g. the media device of . Furthermore because the disclosed system is capable of identifying encrypted media even when a browser extension has failed e.g. after a browser update identifying information can be determined and media exposure can be credited where no crediting would have occurred in prior systems e.g. because prior systems could not identify the source of encrypted media for crediting . In some examples after sufficient identifying information and records have been collected using the browser extension the extension could be disabled and identification could be performed utilizing the collected records thus eliminating utilization of the computing resources e.g. processing resources memory resources etc. consumed by the browser extension. Thus disclosed examples overcome the problem associated with extensions for monitoring media being disabled e.g. by a software update to a browser .

The example instructions included in the appendix may be utilized to implement the components of the panelist meter . In the appendix traffic analysis.rb is an example implementation of the example data monitor of receiving tcpdump session data the example parameter extractor parsing the tcpdump data the example identifier determining Jaccard coefficient similarity scores and the example data store interface storing parameters and similarity scores for training data . The comparer.rb is an example implementation of the example data monitor of receiving tcpdump session data the example parameter extractor parsing the tcpdump data the example identifier determining Jaccard coefficient similarity scores to identify the media and the example data store interface storing parameters and similarity scores for training data . The example tcpdump filter.rb is an example implementation of the parameter extractor of parsing tcpdump data and extracting relevant parameters . facebook tcp filtered.txt gmail tcp filtered.txt and youtube tcp filtered.txt are example listings of parameter data that may be collected by the example data monitor and or extracted by the example parameter extractor of .

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

0 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 44732 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 122 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 985 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 175 44804 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 488 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 133 178 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 202 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 6 5 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 41 49 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 499 44849 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 5 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 3 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 96248 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1448 4 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 107 3 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1448 33 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1149 94 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 5 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 33 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1448 77 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 66 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1448 2 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 297 59 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 59 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1448 125 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1448 89 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 37 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1448 246 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 44259 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 1342 337 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 29068 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 4 10.45.203.108.49593 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 3504 10.45.203.108.49595 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 86 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49594 0 103 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49593 0 5 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 35 10.45.203.108.49593 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 3247 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 150 70 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49595 0 40 10.45.203.108.49595 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 543 10.45.203.108.49593 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 150 646 10.45.203.108.49595 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 150 2186 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49594 0 504 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49594 1000 227 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 14 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49593 0

0 10.45.203.108.49598 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 37 16 10.45.203.108.49598 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 377 10.45.203.108.49597 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 37 21 10.45.203.108.49597 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 315 10.45.203.108.49596 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 37 15 10.45.203.108.49596 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 255 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 37 11 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 741 10.45.203.108.49593 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 37 81 10.45.203.108.49593 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 477 10.45.203.108.49595 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 37 41 10.45.203.108.49595 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 358 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 27 39 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 1153 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49597 37 4 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49597 0 47 10.45.203.108.49597 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 3 10.45.203.108.49597 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 212 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49596 37 2 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49596 0 23 10.45.203.108.49596 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 3 10.45.203.108.49596 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 499 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49598 37 3 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49598 0 23 10.45.203.108.49598 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 3 10.45.203.108.49598 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 326 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49594 37 3 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49594 0 97 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 7 10.45.203.108.49594 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 1322 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49593 37 4 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49593 0 188 10.45.203.108.49593 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 9 10.45.203.108.49593 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 318 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49595 37 3 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 10.45.203.108.49595 0 104 10.45.203.108.49595 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 8 10.45.203.108.49595 a65 32 34 73.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com.https 0 40283 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 3 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 3 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 27 2 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0 152 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 4 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 2 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 2 10.45.203.108.49592 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 0 44853 edge star ecmp 12 frc1.facebook.com.https 10.45.203.108.49592 0

0 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 3 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 32750 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 0 109 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49606 0 22 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 13 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 1091 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 147 848 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 147 26332 10.45.203.108.49607 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 0 5428 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 0 796 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49606 0 872 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 1418 16 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 733 90 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 242 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49606 1418 69 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49606 733 33 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 55255 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49607 0 45 10.45.203.108.49607 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 0 3315 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 75 5 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 6 2 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 41 948 10.45.203.108.49607 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 146 10106 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 75 6 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 6 4 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 41 22074 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 0 88 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 47 34 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 211 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 549 11153 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49606 0 62 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49606 47 45 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 284 10.45.203.108.49606 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 525 18571 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49607 0 1227 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49607 1418 3 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49607 517 92 10.45.203.108.49607 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 0 30231 10.45.203.108.49607 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 75 13 10.45.203.108.49607 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 6 6 10.45.203.108.49607 ye in f84.1e100.net.https 41 15609 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 0 11676 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49606 0 34993 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 1350 107 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 1350 7 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 40 10.45.203.108.49605 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 0 71 mia05s17 in f28.1e100.net.https 10.45.203.108.49605 1350

