---

title: Circuit for mixed memory storage and polymorphic logic computing
abstract: A circuit utilizing memcapacitive elements for mixed memory storage and polymorphic computing is introduced. The circuit includes a plurality of memory cells each selectively or fixedly connected to a word line, bit line and dual bit line. Each memory cell includes a memcapacitive element. Voltage pulse generators can selectively applying voltage pulses to the memory cells. A method for mixed memory storage and polymorphic computing in at least two memory cells is provided. Data is stored by selectively applying voltage pulses to an individual memory cell to set an internal charge level of the memcapacitive element. Logic functions are conducted by applying voltage pulses having independent amplitudes to at least two memory cells to achieve internal charges in the memcapacitive elements of the cells to store an output bit according to a logic map that depends upon applied independent voltage pulse amplitudes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09570140&OS=09570140&RS=09570140
owner: 
number: 09570140
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140307
---
The application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 and from applicable treaties from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 774 986 which was filed Mar. 8 2013.

This invention was made with government support under DMR 802830 and ECCS 1202383 awarded by National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is VLSI circuits. The invention concerns mixed memory storage and polymorphic computing.

Most modern computing systems follow the so called Von Neumann architecture. This architecture separates memory control and logic. This widely successful model includes inherent performance limits that researchers have recently sought to overcome. Quantum computing represents one branch of research that seeks to provide massive parallelism in departure from the traditional model. Practical quantum computing systems still have many technological hurdles to overcome and large scale quantum computing schemes have not yet been demonstrated to outperform traditional CMOS large scale integrations.

Memristors have been attracted a lot of attention due to the prospects of non volatile information storage. See Chua L. O. Kang S. M. Memristive devices and systems. Proc. IEEE 64 209 223 1976 the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors 2011 Edition http www.itrs.net . Memristors have been recently proposed to enable stateful logic operations via material implication. See J. Borghetti et. al. Memristive switches enable stateful logic operations via material implication Nature 464 873 2010 . Memristive based systems employ intrinsically dissipative memristive devices which consume power at a very high level.

Recent efforts including research by some of the present inventors and colleagues have provided information storage based upon capacitors or inductors with memory together with memristors collectively called memelements . See Di Ventra M. Pershin Y. V. Chua L. O. Circuit elements with memory memristors memcapacitive systems and meminductors Proceedings of the IEEE 97 1717 24 2009 . Computation has been demonstrated only with memristors but not memcapacitors or meminductors as stated in the previous paragraph where J. Borghetti et. al. has been cited. The computation demonstrate with the memristors was limited only to the logic operation IMP material implication .

Some of memelements are readily fabricated with current technology and can be integrated with CMOS. Pershin Y. V. Di Ventra M. Memory effects in complex materials and nanoscale systems Advances in Physics 60 145 227 2011 Jo S. H. Kim K H. Lu W. High Density Crossbar Arrays Based on a Si Memristive System . Nano Lett. 9 870874 2009 . These past efforts focused mainly on models and realizations of memcapacitors and meminductors but fail to provide any basis for computing including binary logic operations based on these elements.

An embodiment of the invention is circuit for mixed memory storage and polymorphic computing. The circuit includes a plurality of memory cells each selectively or fixedly connected to a word line bit line and dual bit line. Each memory cell includes a memcapacitive element. Voltage pulse generators can selectively applying voltage pulses to the memory cells. Preferred embodiments also include sense amplifiers for reading and refreshing contents of the memory cells. Control circuitry is applied to control the voltage generators and sense amplifiers to conduct logic operations using two or more of the memory cells.

A method for mixed memory storage and polymorphic computing in at least two memory cells each having a memcapacitive element is provided. Data is stored by selectively applying voltage pulses to an individual memory cell to set an internal charge level of the memcapacitive element. Logic functions are conducted by applying voltage pulses having independent amplitudes to at least two memory cells to achieve internal charges in the memcapacitive elements of the cells to store an output bit according to a logic map that depends upon applied independent voltage pulse amplitudes.

Particular embodiments of the invention provide solid state memcapacitor circuits and memcomputing systems that can provide computation with memory elements to achieve computation and storage of information on the same platform. Preferred embodiments of the invention provide memcapacitor based VLSI circuits that store data and perform computation at the same time. Advantageously memelement circuits of the invention provide additional miniaturization by combining logic and memory.

Previous work discussed in the background demonstrate the use of memristors for memory operations. The invention greatly expands this area by using memcapacitors to conduct computation and storage operations at the same time and to generalize computation operations. Preferred embodiments use memcapacitors to compute and store at the same time. Memcapacitors store energy and can be integrated with VLSI permitting the latter to be reused during computation to provide a low energy form of computation.

Other embodiments use different types of memcapacitor cells. For example bistable membrane memcapacitive systems see J. Martinez Rincon and Y. V. Pershin Bistable non volatile elastic membrane memcapacitor exhibiting chaotic behavior IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices 58 1809 2011 and polymer based memcapacitive systems see Q. Lai L. Zhang Z. Li W. F. Stickle R. S. Williams and Y. Chen Analog memory capacitor based on field configurable ion doped polymers Appl. Phys. Lett. 95 2009 p. 213503 are alternatives. Ferroelectric capacitors and ferroelectric ram are other possible alternatives.

Preferred embodiments of the invention provide circuits of interacting memcapacitors capable of storing data and performing logic functions such as AND OR etc at a very low energy cost. Circuits of preferred embodiments of the invention can be implemented in Very Large Scale Integrated VLSI circuits allowing for large scale low cost production very low power consumption and mixed mode operation for memory storage and polymorphic logic computing on the same physical platform.

Other embodiments of the invention realize analog type computation utilizing circuits networks of memcapacitors. Such circuits could perform different tasks including analog addition and multiplication solution of graph theory optimization problems and brain like computing. In the core of all these applications is the ability of memcapacitors to store and process information on the same physical platform.

A preferred embodiment system utilizes low power dissipation memcapacitive devices to provide a DCRAM Dynamic Computing Random Access Memory . A DCRAM of the invention can provide massively parallel logic operations directly in memory thus offering a practical solution to the von Neumann bottleneck.

Preferred embodiment DCRAM can resolve the intrinsic limitations of prior state of the art architectures by enabling computing and storing of information on the same physical platform. DCRAM of the invention can provide massively parallel and polymorphic digital logic. Different logic operations can be achieved in the invention with the same architecture by varying only control signals. Alternatively switching can be added to alter connections between cells. With either control signal variation or connection switching a hardware cell of the invention can provide multiple logic functions traditional performed by different hardware cells in traditional VLSI circuitry. Analysis shows that energy expenditures of preferred DCRAM can be as low as a few femtojoules per operation. DCRAM of the invention are fully compatible with present CMOS technology and can be integrated therewith. Fabrication can be achieved with current fabrication systems.

An embodiment of the invention is circuit for mixed memory storage and polymorphic computing. The circuit includes a plurality of memory cells each selectively or fixedly connected to a word line bit line and dual bit line. Each memory cell includes a memcapacitive element. Voltage pulse generators can selectively applying voltage pulses to the memory cells. Preferred embodiments also include sense amplifiers for reading and refreshing contents of the memory cells. Control circuitry is applied to control the voltage generators and sense amplifiers to conduct logic operations using two or more of the memory cells.

A method for mixed memory storage and polymorphic computing in at least two memory cells each having a memcapacitive element is provided. Data is stored by selectively applying voltage pulses to an individual memory cell to set an internal charge level of the memcapacitive element. Logic functions are conducted by applying voltage pulses having independent amplitudes to at least two memory cells to achieve internal charges in the memcapacitive elements of the cells to store an output bit according to a logic map that depends upon applied independent voltage pulse amplitudes.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings may include schematic representations which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale.

In WL is a word line and BL is a bit Line. DBL is a dual bit line. The write read and refresh processes can be performed in a similar way as for DRAMs using a configuration composed of word line WL and double bit line bit line BL and dual bit line DBL . It is also possible to make computation directly inside the platform. It can be reached simply by working with two three or more memory cells with a common WL as illustrated in . shows the configuration of three memory cells. In this configuration the BLs of three cells have the SAs temporarily disconnected by switching in the control logic circuitry and they are connected together to a floating common line not illustrated but part of logic circuitry . The control logic circuitry also includes control in the form of hardware or firmware to execute various logic and storage operations as will be discussed. The output one of the three cells memcapacitor is initially set to a certain state and voltage pulses with different amplitudes are successively applied at the DBLs. Vis applied to to WL across the cells to the DBL. The global current response of the three memory cells will depend on the internal states of the memcapacitors.

The operation can also provide a variety of additional circuit operations other than the cell operation in . For example the same memcapacitor could be used to store Input and Output values. In this case the circuit from reduces to a circuit of two memcapacitors coupled to a traditional capacitor.

The write process is the usual write process for DRAMs i.e. to store data a row is opened and a given column s sense amplifier SA is temporarily forced to the desired high positive or low negative voltage state. In this case the positive negative applied voltage over under a certain threshold moves the charge Q form the bottom top to the top bottom layer. Providing that the potential barrier due to the semiconductor between the layers is high enough our simulation shows that 0.4 eV is a reasonable barrier height the charge Q persists practically indefinitely on the desired layer avoiding the periodic refresh of the cell typical for the DRAMs.

The read process is quite different from the DRAMs. In fact the charge Q cannot flow out of the memcapacitor but it can only move from one layer to the other. However while the charge Q is moving the dynamic capacitance of the memcapacitor dramatically varies depending on the applied voltage. This induces a current response to a voltage pulse to the terminal of the sense amplifier that is different depending on where the charge Q is distributed. shows the current response simulated current response at terminal A for the two different states of the memcapacitor where the connection between the voltage pulse generator and the memcapacitor is modeled as usual as a transmission line. The difference in the current response can be used to read the data. As in the case of DRAM reading is a destructive process so a proper sense amplifier is used to refresh the bit that has been read.

Computation is performed directly inside the memory with two or more memory cells as in the example shown with three memory cells with common word line in . In with the BLs of three cells having SAs temporarily disconnected and being connected to a floating common line the output memcapacitor is initially set to 1 and voltage pulses with different amplitudes are successively applied at the DBLs by voltage drivers in the circuitry . The global current response of the three memory cells will depend on the internal states of the memcapacitors .

Embodiments of the invention can also use for example membrane memcapacitor circuits. See J. Martinez Rincon and Y. V. Pershin Bistable non volatile elastic membrane memcapacitor exhibiting chaotic behavior IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices 58 1809 2011 . Preferred embodiments are based upon solid state memcapacitors. See Martinez Rincon J. Di Ventra M. Pershin Y. V. Solid state memcapacitive system with negative and diverging capacitance Phys. Rev. B 81 195430 2010 .

The DCRAM of has topology that permits information storage and logic operations using memory cells that are solid state memcapacitive systems. shows single cell response to a voltage pulse under READ WRITE for the DCRAM of . In simulations the bit and dual bit lines were modeled as transmission lines with typical parameters for DRAM R 1.5 kmmand C 0 2 pFmmassuming 1 mm line length. The voltage pulse is a smooth square pulse of 1 V amplitude and 1 ns width starting at t 1 ns. The main graph is the current response measured at the end of the bit line for several initial values of the internal charge Q. The middle line refers to Q 0 initial condition. To quantify Q an effective internal voltage difference IVD is denied as V Q Cwith Cbeing the geometrical capacitance of the intermediate layer. C A k d where A is the surface area 0 is the vacuum permittivity kis the relative permittivity of the central layer and dis its thickness. The top right inset shows the cell s dissipated energy. The bottom left inset shows the effective internal voltage difference as a function of voltage pulse amplitude in 1 s after the voltage pulse application.

The capacitance Cof a solid state memcapacitive system is derived using the standard relation q CV where q is the charge on the capacitor plates external metal layers and V is the applied voltage. Importantly Cis a function of the internal state namely it depends on the ratio Q q where Q is the internal charge top left inset . Ccan diverge and take negative values leading to a variety of transient responses . The internal memory of the memcapacitive system arises from the delay of the internal charge response caused by a tunneling barrier of the central insulator layer. The tunneling barrier can be lowered by a voltage bias applied to the capacitor plates. In this case a finite internal current between the internal metal layers changing Q is possible. The internal charge Q becomes trapped when the shape of the potential barrier is restored. Therefore the applied voltage pulses can be used to control the internal charge Q which can be subsequently stored. The lifetime of Q can be set within wide ranges depending on geometrical and physical properties of the structure.

Binary information is encoded in the internal charge Q of the memcapacitive system of . Q Qcorresponds to logic 1. Q Qcorresponds to logic 0 and the logic value is not defined when Q Q Q. The threshold Qis introduced to reliably distinguish logic values and as such is defined according to the sensitivity of the voltage sense amplifiers. Voltage sense amplifiers are well understood as they are applied in conventional DRAM memories for read and refresh operations.

The WRITE READ and logic operations with memcapacitive memory cells are performed with the help the control circuitry that provides appropriate signals. Consider the WRITE operation first. The dual bit line DBL is grounded and the voltage pulse is applied to the bit line BL . The applied voltage pulse lowers the potential barrier between the internal metal layers allowing for an internal charge redistribution. The WRITE process is based upon a threshold voltage Vsuch that there is no significant charge transfer between the internal plates at applied voltage amplitudes below V. This is illustrated in the bottom left inset in . When pulse amplitudes exceed Va considerable amount of charge can tunnel between the internal layers. In an example structure Vis about 0.5V which is large enough to avoid being affected by typical perturbations induced by metal oxide semiconductor MOS transistor leakage currents. The existence of Valso provides a charge saturation as seen in the bottom left inset of .

The READ operation is destructive and therefore is followed by a REFRESH in the case of the memcapacitors of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated. Other types of memcapacitors with multistable states provide a non destructive READ operation e.g. membrane memcapacitors . With such memcapacitors a READ would not require REFRESH operations.

The current response of reveals variations in the cell response that depend on the initial value of Q. The sense amplifiers in the circuitry can read a stored logic value based upon these differences. To meet the VSA modus operandi current response can be transformed into a voltage response connecting the bit and dual bit lines to the VSA input terminals. The voltage pulse in the READ operation changes the internal charge A and therefore a REFERESH is applied after READ. The top right inset in shows the dissipated energy when a pulse that is 1 ns long and 1V is applied which can be used for all operations WRITE READ COMPUTE because of similar operating conditions. Energy is only on the order of a few femtojoules which is comparable with state of the art CMOS storage. However because information is stored directly in the DCRAM power is saved by avoiding a transfer operation to and from a CPU.

As discussed above when a voltage pulse is applied to a memory cell its current response strongly depends on its internal charge Q. This can be used to read the information stored in the memory cell. The common solution used in standard DRAM technology employs voltage sense ampliers VSAs . This solution can be adapted to the READ operation for the DCRAM of the invention. VSAs are connected to the memory cell in series with a voltage pulse generator as illustrated in . The ideal characteristics of the VSA are presented in for different operations showing the two cases were its input signal is below lower line and above upper line its threshold. It is important to know that VSA amplifies the response voltage Vif V V where Vis a predetermined threshold voltage. Generally the delayed response of VSAs is associated with internal capacitances of MOS structures. During the delay time the voltage pulse generator induces the response voltage V. Being amplified Vprovides the value stored in the memory cell.

As shown in the when the voltage pulse acts the information inside the memory cell is destroyed since the final state inside the memory cell is 1. The dotted line in is the pulse by the generator while the solid line is the case of bit partially written and subsequently refreshed and the dashed line is the case of bit partially written and subsequently refreshed. Therefore similarly to common DRAMs the reading process is destructive and thus needs to be coupled with a subsequent REFRESH process. The sequence thus consists of two steps. First a voltage pulse in our simulations of 0.5 ns length and 1 V amplitude is applied by the generator. It produces a voltage response that is considered as input for VSA during its delay state . Subsequently if V Vthe VSA amplifies the voltage Vand 0 is written on the contrary if V

For COMPUTE memory cells are coupled and logic operations are realized. Polymorphic logic gates can be obtained using switches at the end of the BL and DBL to create appropriate connections of two or more memory cells. A boolean function of choice can be applied to a pair of input memcapacitive cells and its result can be written into a different third cell. A couple of synchronized voltage pulses applied to these cells induce a dynamical process such that the values of internal charges Q hold the result of logic gates applied to the initial values.

The dynamics of the internal charges Q of two coupled cells subjected to a couple of synchronized voltage pulses depends on the initial combination of internal charges of these cells. In this way the final values of the internal charges can be considered as a result of a logic operation over initial values stored at t 0 in these cells. A complete set of logic operations is provided with only AND and NOT or OR and NOT functions which permit any logical expression to be evaluated. Two memory cells can provide 6 different operations depending upon how the cells are coupled and the amplitudes of applied voltages. Thus two coupled memory cells act as universal logic gates. In contrast in standard CMOS several transistors are required to perform the same computations. As an example a NAND gate in CMOS requires at least four transistors in a simple configuration.

The DCRAM circuit of the invention is also intrinsically capable of parallel computation. After one operation there can be a different output on each memcapacitor cell indicating the performance of two operations in a single step. Connection of more than two memory cells permits more complex operations in a single step and there different outputs can be written into each memory cell. It is possible to perform simultaneous operations of multiple groups of two or three coupled cells. The voltage pulse amplitudes for READ WRITE and logic operations are in the same range. This provides a memcomputing architecture that processes and stores information on the same physical platform using two terminal passive devices. Low power polymorphic and massive parallel capability are provided.

The final values of Q in cells A and B realize OR and AND gates respectively as shown in . The dissipated energy is low as in the other examples discussed being is less than 2 fJ in the worst case scenario and in the case of 1 0 initial configuration it is much lower. After computation the bits stored in the cells are only partially written and the computation process is completed by a REFRESH process thus increasing the total required energy per operation of a few fJ dependent on the characteristics of the VSA.

The discussed ability to perform six different two bit and three bit operations with different cell couplings will be explained with respect to . illustrate possible two bit logic operations for the DCRAM cells. An additional bit is set to 1 for negation. W and W stand for the operation WRITE and respectively. In the worst case scenario a three bit registry three cells is needed the third bit initially set to 1 is used to perform negation and a two level operation is required. Compared with CMOS NAND logic or NOR logic DCRAM logic circuits require fewer components. In fact the commonly used CMOS NAND or NOR logic gates require up to 5 level operation scheme and up to 20 transistors to perform the same set of two bit functions.

Three cell connection logic is illustrated in . The regions for operation are the same as in but the number of logic operations and parallelism are substantially increased by involving three passive two terminal cells in the operations.

Similarly illustrate the same approach for fixing connections of three cells. Instead of switching cells logic is achieved by variation of voltage pulses. is a continuation of the table in . W and W again stand for the operation WRITE and respectively and R REFRESH. The functions and 1 are not shown but are obtained as in the fifth column for and in the first column for 0 respectively.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

