---

title: Objective lens for endoscope and endoscope
abstract: An objective lens for an endoscope focuses from a farthest point object to a nearest point object by moving, along optical axis Z, at least one lens group excluding a most object-side lens group. The objective lens satisfies the formulae:

1.2≦, and

0.0<()/()≦0.5, where


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645382&OS=09645382&RS=09645382
owner: FUJIFILM Corporation
number: 09645382
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140703
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 150499 filed on Jul. 19 2013. The above application is hereby expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present application.

The present invention relates to an objective lens for an endoscope and an endoscope. In particular the present invention relates to an objective lens for an endoscope in which focusing is performed from a farthest point object to a nearest point object by moving a part of lens groups in a system and also to an endoscope including this objective lens for an endoscope.

In observation by endoscopes users want to observe a wide range as a whole and also a part such as a diseased region that has been found in observation of the whole area in detail. Conventionally such demand was often satisfied by using a fixed focus lens with a deep depth of field. However further improvement in image qualities is requested because the trend of endoscopes is a higher pixel number and a wider angle of view and also because images imaged by endoscopes are read in and analysis and observation are performed on the images.

In view of such situations objective lenses for endoscopes in which the usage state of an endoscope is switchable between a far point side observation state wide which is appropriate for observation of a region as a whole and a near point side magnified observation state tele which is appropriate for observation of a part of the region became used. As an example of such related art an objective lens disclosed in Japanese Patent No. 2876252 Patent Document 1 is known.

The objective lens for an endoscope disclosed in Patent Document 1 consists of four lens groups and negative refractive power positive refractive power negative refractive power and positive refractive power are arranged in this order from an object side. Further the usage state is switched as described above by moving a third lens group of the four lens groups.

When a diseased region that has been found in observation of the whole area is observed as a part in detail as described above the diseased region is not always observed while the diseased region is located at a nearest point. In actual observation observation is often performed while an objective lens and the diseased region are placed close to each other to such an extent that a significant magnified observation effect is obtainable. Therefore there is a demand for an objective lens for an endoscope that enables excellent observation while a target of observation is located in a region between a farthest point and a nearest point to such an extent that a significant magnified observation effect is obtainable.

However in the objective lens for an endoscope disclosed in Patent Document 1 when a point located between a farthest point and a nearest point is set as a middle point an amount of variation in a focal length with respect to a change in an object distance at this middle point is large. In an objective lens for an endoscope the focal length of the entire system of which is variable based on an object distance the focal length of the entire system in a near point side magnified observation state is longer than the focal length of the entire system in the far point side observation state. Therefore an observation depth the depth of field in the near point side magnified observation state is shallow and adjustment of focus becomes even more difficult. When the amount of variation in the focal length at the middle point is large as in the objective lens for an endoscope disclosed in Patent Document 1 an observation depth becomes shallower in the region from the middle point to the nearest point and adjustment of focus becomes extremely difficult. Further when the amount of variation in the focal length is large a magnification in observation greatly changes and the size of an observation image greatly changes. Therefore there are problems that observation is extremely difficult and that a target of observation tends to disappear from a field of view.

In view of the foregoing circumstances it is an object of the present invention to provide an objective lens for an endoscope the focus of which is easily adjustable during magnified observation and in which excellent observation is possible and to provide an endoscope including the objective lens for an endoscope.

An objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention is configured to perform focusing from a farthest point object to a nearest point object by moving along an optical axis at least one lens group excluding a most object side lens group. Further the following conditional formulas 1 and 2 are satisfied 1.2 1 and 0.0

ft a focal length of an entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the nearest point object 

fw a focal length of the entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the farthest point object 

fm a focal length of the entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the middle point object.

It is desirable that the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention further satisfies the following conditional formula 2 in the range satisfying the aforementioned conditional formula 2 0.0

In the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention it is desirable that one of the lens groups that move during focusing is a negative lens group. Further in the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention it is desirable that focusing is performed by moving two lens groups in such a manner that a distance between the two lens groups changes. In that case it is desirable that the two lens groups that move during focusing are a positive lens group and a negative lens group.

It is desirable that the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention satisfies the following conditional formula 3 . It is more desirable that the following conditional formula 3 is satisfied 0.0

fmw a focal length of the entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the medium far point object.

It is desirable that the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention substantially consists of a first lens group having negative refractive power a second lens group having positive refractive power a third lens group having negative refractive power and a fourth lens group having positive refractive power in this order from an object side. Here the expression substantially consists of means substantially consisting of these lens groups. Therefore lenses substantially without any refractive power optical elements such as apertures and cover glass lens flanges lens barrels and the like may be included besides the lens groups mentioned as composition elements.

In the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention it is desirable that a movement path of the at least one lens group that moves during focusing is variable.

Here the term lens group does not necessarily mean a lens group composed of plural lenses. The lens group may be composed of only a lens.

Further the term farthest point means a point that is in best focus and farthest from the objective lens for an endoscope in the range of length on the target of observation side. The term nearest point means a point that is in best focus and nearest to the objective lens for an endoscope in the range of length on the target of observation side. Further the term object distance means a distance on an optical axis from a most object side lens surface of the objective lens for an endoscope to an object.

The sign of refractive power will be considered in a paraxial region when an aspheric lens is included unless otherwise mentioned.

An endoscope of the present invention includes the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention as described above.

The present invention can provide an objective lens for an endoscope that can shift from a far point side observation state to a near point side magnified observation state and in which focusing is easily performable during magnified observation and excellent image is observable and an endoscope including this objective lens for an endoscope.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to drawings. is a diagram illustrating the structure of an objective lens for an endoscope according to an embodiment of the present invention at a cross section including optical axis Z. The structural example illustrated in corresponds to a lens structure in Example 1 which will be described later. In the left side is the object side and the right side is the image side.

An objective lens for an endoscope according to an embodiment of the present invention is configured to perform focusing from a farthest point object to a nearest point object by moving along optical axis Z at least one lens group excluding a most object side lens group. In an upper row illustrates a lens structure in a state of having focused on a farthest point object hereinafter referred to as a farthest point observation state a middle row illustrates a lens structure in a state of having focused on a middle point object hereinafter referred to as a middle point observation state and a lower row illustrates a lens structure in a state of having focused on a nearest point object hereinafter referred to as a nearest point observation state .

The objective lens for an endoscope of the example illustrated in substantially consists of first lens group G1 having negative refractive power second lens group G2 having positive refractive power third lens group G3 having negative refractive power and fourth lens group G4 having positive refractive power in this order from an object side. The objective lens for an endoscope is configured in such a manner that two lens groups of second lens group G2 and third lens group G3 move as indicated by arrows between the states in during focusing from the farthest point observation state to the middle point observation state and during focusing from the middle point observation state to the nearest point observation state. The directions of the arrows illustrated in do not indicate exact directions but approximate directions.

As lenses constituting the objective lens for an endoscope illustrated in first lens group G1 substantially consists of negative lens L1 and a cemented lens of negative lens L2 and positive lens L3 cemented together in this order from the object side. Second lens group G2 substantially consists of only positive lens L4 which is a single lens. Third lens group G3 substantially consists of a cemented lens of positive lens L5 and negative lens L6 cemented together in this order from the object side. Fourth lens group G4 substantially consists of positive lens L7 and a cemented lens of positive lens L8 and negative lens L9 cemented together in this order from the object side.

In the example illustrated in lens L1 and lens L2 are plano concave lenses with their flat surfaces facing the object side. Lens L3 and lens L4 are biconvex lenses and lens L5 is a plano convex lens with its flat surface facing the object side. Lens L6 is a biconcave lens and lens L7 is a plano convex lens with its flat surface facing the image side. Lens L8 is a biconvex lens and lens L9 is a negative meniscus lens with its concave surface facing the object side. Here the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention may be structured in such a manner that lens L1 and lens L2 are negative meniscus lenses with their concave surfaces facing the image side and that lens L5 is a positive meniscus lens with its convex surface facing the image side.

In this objective lens for an endoscope the most object side lens group is fixed and does not move during focusing. This is because an objective lens for an endoscope is often mounted on an endoscope without using a protective member and a function of an optical window is also given to the most object side lens among lenses constituting the objective lens for an endoscope. In that case for the purpose of maintaining the air tight condition it is impossible to structure the objective lens for an endoscope in such a manner that the most object side lens is movable.

In this objective lens for an endoscope it is desirable that one of lens groups that move during focusing is a negative lens group. When a negative lens group is moved during focusing it is possible to easily obtain a larger amount of variation in focal length by a smaller amount of movement. Therefore that is advantageous to achievement of both reduction in the size of an optical system and a magnified observation effect.

It is desirable that focusing is performed by moving two lens groups in such a manner that a distance between the two lens groups changes. When the number of lens groups that move is two it is possible to suppress a fluctuation of aberrations caused by the movement of lens groups and to improve the flexibility in setting a focusing speed with respect to a movement distance of each lens group while simplifying a movement mechanism of lens groups. Further it is possible to provide the objective lens for an endoscope easily usable by users.

When the number of lens groups that move during focusing is two it is desirable that the two lens groups is a negative lens group and a positive lens group. In such a case it is possible to excellently suppress a fluctuation of aberrations caused by the movement of the lens groups and especially a fluctuation of chromatic aberrations.

In the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention it is desirable that movement paths of lens groups that move during focusing are variable. Specifically it is desirable that the lens groups that move during focusing have plural kinds of movement paths. When the movement paths of the lens groups that move are variable it is possible to improve the flexibility in setting a focusing speed with respect to a movement distance of each lens group. Further it is possible to provide the objective lens for an endoscope easily usable by users.

In the example illustrated in the entire system substantially consists of four lens groups and negative refractive power positive refractive power negative refractive power and positive refractive power are arranged in this order from the object side. Further second lens group G2 and third lens group G3 are moved during focusing. Third lens group G3 is moved because of the aforementioned reason. Fourth lens group G4 is not selected as the positive lens group to be moved but second lens group G2 is selected as the positive lens group to be moved because second lens group G2 which is easily structurable by using a smaller number of lenses than fourth lens group G4 is desirable to simplify the movement mechanism. However the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention is not necessarily limited to the example illustrated in . For example the lens group that moves during focusing may be only one negative lens group. In such a case it is possible to simplify a drive mechanism. Further the number of lens groups constituting the entire system may be three or five or greater.

The objective lens for an endoscope according to an embodiment of the present invention is configured to satisfy the following conditional formulas 1 and 2 1.2 1 and 0.0

ft a focal length of an entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the nearest point object 

fw a focal length of the entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the farthest point object and

fm a focal length of the entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the middle point object.

In conditional formula 1 ft fw represents the ratio of magnification the ratio of enlargement or reduction induced by a change in the focal length of the entire system. For example ft fw corresponds to a zoom ratio of a general zoom lens. When the value of ft fw in conditional formula 1 is larger than 1 the focal length of the entire system becomes longer during focusing from a farthest point object to a nearest point object. Therefore it is possible to obtain not only a magnified observation effect achievable by approaching the object but also a magnified observation effect achievable by a change in the focal length of the entire system. When the objective lens for an endoscope is structured in such a manner that the value is not less than the lower limit of conditional formula 1 it is possible to obtain a significant ratio of magnification induced by a change in the focal length of the entire system. When the value is less than the lower limit of conditional formula 1 if a magnification in observation similar to a magnification achievable when conditional formula 1 is satisfied is tried to be achieved an object distance inevitably becomes short. Consequently a region insufficiently illuminated with illumination light output from an illumination window arranged at a leading end of an insertion portion of the endoscope is observed. When conditional formula 1 is satisfied it is possible to obtain a significant ratio of magnification induced by a change in the focal length of the entire system and perform excellent observation.

Further dm about conditional formula 2 corresponds to a harmonic mean of dt and dw. A point on the object side of the objective lens for an endoscope at the distance of dm from the objective lens for an endoscope will be referred to as a middle point. Conditional formula 2 is created by taking not only the nearest point and the farthest point but also the middle point into consideration. When the objective lens for an endoscope is structured in such a manner that the value does not exceed the upper limit of conditional formula 2 it is possible to make the focal length in a middle point observation state which generally tends to be inclined to a long focus side relatively inclined to a short focus side. Accordingly it is possible to make the depth of observation during magnified observation at the middle point and in the vicinity thereof deeper. Therefore adjustment of focus becomes easy. Further it is possible to suppress a change in the size of an observation image at the middle point and in the vicinity thereof so that the change does not become too large. When the objective lens for an endoscope is structured in such a manner that the value is not less than or equal to the lower limit of conditional formula 2 it is possible to obtain not only a magnified observation effect achievable by approaching the object but also a magnified observation effect achievable by a change in the focal length of the entire system for an object located in the range between the farthest point and the middle point. Therefore a minute target object becomes observable.

It is desirable that the following conditional formula 2 is satisfied to improve the effect about the upper limit of conditional formula 2 while achieving the effect about the lower limit of conditional formula 2 0.0

In the objective lens for an endoscope according to an embodiment of the present invention it is desirable that the following conditional formula 3 is satisfied 0.0

ft a focal length of an entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the nearest point object 

fw a focal length of the entire system when the objective lens has been focused on the farthest point object and

fmw a focal length of the entire system when the objective lens has been focused on a medium far point object.

Object distance dmw to the medium far point object is represented by the following expression 4 3 where

Further dmw about conditional formula 3 corresponds to a harmonic mean of dw and dm. A point on the object side of the objective lens for an endoscope at the distance of dmw from the objective lens for an endoscope will be referred to as a medium far point. Conditional formula 3 is created by taking not only the nearest point and the farthest point but also the medium far point into consideration. When the objective lens for an endoscope is structured in such a manner that the value does not exceed the upper limit of conditional formula 3 it is possible to make the focal length in a medium far point observation state relatively inclined to a short focus side. Accordingly it is possible to make the depth of observation during magnified observation at the medium far point and in the vicinity thereof deeper. Therefore adjustment of focus becomes easy. Further it is possible to suppress a change in the size of an observation image at the medium far point and in the vicinity thereof so that the change does not become too large. When the objective lens for an endoscope is structured in such a manner that the value is not less than or equal to the lower limit of conditional formula 3 it is possible to obtain not only a magnified observation effect achievable by approaching the object but also a magnified observation effect achievable by a change in the focal length of the entire system for an object located in the range between the farthest point and the medium far point. Therefore a minute target object becomes observable.

It is desirable that the following conditional formula 3 is satisfied to improve the effect about the upper limit of conditional formula 3 while achieving the effect about the lower limit of conditional formula 3 0.0

The aforementioned desirable structures may be adopted in arbitrary combination. It is desirable that the aforementioned structures are optionally adopted in an appropriate manner based on what is requested.

Next numerical value examples of the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention will be described.

A diagram illustrating the lens structure of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 1 is illustrated in . The illustration method of and the structure of the objective lens for an endoscope were described already. Therefore explanations will not be repeated.

Table 1 shows basic lens data on an objective lens for an endoscope in Example 1. In Table 1 column Si shows the surface number of the i th surface i 1 2 3 . . . . The object side surface of a composition element located closest to the object side is the first surface and surface numbers are assigned to surfaces of composition elements in such a manner to sequentially increase toward the image side. Column Ri shows the curvature radius of the i th surface and column Di shows a distance on optical axis Z between the i th surface and the i 1 th surface. Column Ndj shows the refractive index of the j th optical element j 1 2 3 . . . for d line wavelength is 587.6 nm . An optical element closest to the object side is the first element and numbers are assigned to optical elements in such a manner to sequentially increase toward the image side. Column vdj shows the Abbe number of the j th optical element for d line.

The basic lens data including aperture stop St and optical members P1 P2 P3 are shown. In the column of surface numbers the term of St is written for a surface corresponding to aperture stop St together with the surface number. In Table 1 the sign of a curvature radius is positive when a surface shape is convex toward the object side and negative when a surface shape is convex toward the image side. In the lowest row of the column of Di a distance between an image side surface of optical member P3 and an image plane is written. In Table 1 the terms of VARIABLE 1 VARIABLE 2 VARIABLE 3 and VARIABLE 4 are written for a distance between first lens group G1 and second lens group G2 a distance between second lens group G2 and aperture stop St a distance between aperture stop St and third lens group G3 and a distance between third lens group G3 and fourth lens group G4 respectively which are variable surface distances that change during focusing.

Table 2 shows an object distance and the values of VARIABLE 1 VARIABLE 2 VARIABLE 3 and VARIABLE 4 in each of a farthest point observation state a medium far point observation state a middle point observation state and a nearest point observation state. The focal length of an entire system and values corresponding to conditional formulas 1 through 3 for each state will be collectively shown in Table 8 and Table 9 later together with values for other examples. Values in the following tables are rounded at predetermined digits. In each table mm is used as the unit of length.

In the aberration diagrams of a spherical aberration astigmatism and distortion aberrations based d line as a reference wavelength are illustrated. The diagram of the spherical aberration illustrates aberrations also for C line wavelength is 656.27 nm and F line wavelength is 486.13 nm . In the diagram of the astigmatism an aberration for a sagittal direction is indicated by a solid line and an aberration for a tangential direction is indicated by a broken line. The diagram of the lateral chromatic aberration illustrates aberrations for C line and F line. In the diagram of the spherical aberration FNo. represents F number and in the other diagrams represents a half angle of view.

The illustration method and the signs meanings and description methods of various data about Example 1 as described above are similar in the following examples unless otherwise mentioned. Therefore explanations will not be repeated.

The basic lens data on the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 2 2 are the same as the basic lens data on the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 1 and Example 2 1. Further an object distance in a farthest point observation state and an object distance in a nearest point observation state of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 2 2 are the same as the object distances in Example 2 1. In Example 2 1 and Example 2 2 the basic lens data the farthest point object distance and the nearest point object distance are the same but the paths of movement are variable. Table 4 shows an object distance and the values of VARIABLE 1 VARIABLE 2 VARIABLE 3 and VARIABLE 4 in each of a farthest point observation state a medium far point observation state a middle point observation state and a nearest point observation state of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 2 2.

A spherical aberration astigmatism distortion and a lateral chromatic aberration of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 2 2 in a farthest point observation state are illustrated in the aberration diagrams of Sections A B C and D respectively. A spherical aberration astigmatism distortion and a lateral chromatic aberration of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 2 2 in a nearest point observation state are illustrated in the aberration diagrams of Sections A B C and D respectively. Sections A B C and D are aberration diagrams of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 2 2 in a middle point observation state and illustrate a spherical aberration astigmatism distortion and a lateral chromatic aberration respectively.

The basic lens data and the object distance in a farthest point observation state and the object distance in the nearest point observation state in Example 3 2 are the same as those in Example 3 1. In Example 3 1 and Example 3 2 the basic lens data the object distance in a farthest point observation state and the object distance in a nearest point observation state are the same but the paths of movement are variable. Table 7 shows an object distance and the values of VARIABLE 1 VARIABLE 2 VARIABLE 3 and VARIABLE 4 in each of a farthest point observation state a medium far point observation state a middle point observation state and a nearest point observation state of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 3 2.

A spherical aberration astigmatism distortion and a lateral chromatic aberration of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 3 2 in a farthest point observation state are illustrated in the aberration diagrams of Sections A B C and D respectively. A spherical aberration astigmatism distortion and a lateral chromatic aberration of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 3 2 in a nearest point observation state are illustrated in the aberration diagrams in Sections A B C and D respectively. Sections A B C and D are aberration diagrams of the objective lens for an endoscope in Example 3 2 in a middle point observation state and illustrate a spherical aberration astigmatism distortion and a lateral chromatic aberration respectively.

Table 8 collectively shows an object distance a focal length and a focal length ratio in each of a farthest point observation state a medium far point observation state a middle point observation state a medium near point observation state and a nearest point observation state of objective lenses for endoscopes in Examples 1 2 1 2 2 3 1 and 3 2. Here the term medium near point observation state refers to a state in which the objective lens has been focused on a medium near object and object distance dmt to the medium near object is represented by the following expression 4 3 where

The term focal length ratio in Table 8 is a value represented by fx fw ft fw when a focal length of an entire system at a certain state is fx. A focal length ratio in a medium far point observation state is represented by fmw fw ft fw . A focal length ratio in a middle point observation state is represented by fm fw ft fw .

Table 9 shows values corresponding to conditional formulas 1 through 3 for the objective lenses for endoscopes in Examples 1 2 1 2 2 3 1 and 3 2. As Table 9 shows all of the examples satisfy conditional formulas 1 through 3 . Table 9 show values when d line is a reference wavelength.

Next with reference to Table 10 comparative examples will be described. Comparative Examples 1 through 6 in Table 10 correspond to Examples 1 through 6 of the objective lens for an endoscope disclosed in the aforementioned Patent Document 1 Japanese Patent No. 2876252 respectively. Table 10 shows an object distance a focal length and a value corresponding to conditional formula 2 in each of a farthest point observation state a middle point observation state a nearest point observation state of these Comparative Examples 1 through 6. Here the object distance in the nearest point observation state in Comparative Example 2 is not an object distance copied from Patent Document 1. The object distance was calculated by using lens data described in Patent Document 1 under the assumption that a back focus in a wide state and a back focus in a tele state are the same. As Table 10 shows none of Comparative Examples 1 through 6 satisfies Conditional formula 2 .

Next with reference to through embodiments of an endoscope to which the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention is applied will be described. is a schematic diagram illustrating the configuration of the whole endoscope. An endoscope illustrated in mainly includes an operation unit an insertion unit and a connector unit not illustrated for connecting a universal cord . An insertion unit which is inserted into a patient s body is connected to a leading end side of the operation unit and the universal cord for connecting to the connector unit for connecting to a light source apparatus or the like extends from the base end side of the operation unit .

A most part of the insertion unit is a flexible portion which is bendable in an arbitrary direction along an insertion path. Further a curving portion is connected to the leading end of this flexible portion and a leading end portion is sequentially connected to the leading end of this curved portion . The curving portion is provided to direct the leading end portion to a desirable direction and a curving operation is performable by rotating a curve operation knob provided at the operation unit .

Further as illustrated in the objective lens for an endoscope an optical path conversion prism and a solid state imaging device are arranged in the leading end portion . The objective lens for an endoscope is arranged in such a manner that the optical axis of the objective lens for an endoscope is parallel to the direction of the longitudinal axis of the insertion unit . The optical path conversion prism is provided to bend the image side optical path of the objective lens for an endoscope by about 90 degrees. The solid state imaging device is cemented on the optical path conversion prism in such a manner that a light receiving surface of the solid state imaging device is parallel to the direction of a longitudinal axis of the insertion unit .

In the objective lens for an endoscope is conceptually illustrated. The solid state imaging device is arranged in such a manner that the imaging surface of the solid state imaging device matches with the image plane of the objective lens for an endoscope. The solid state imaging device images an optical image formed by the objective lens for an endoscope and outputs electrical signals. The solid state imaging device includes a cover glass for protecting a light receiving surface. However in and the cover glass is included in the solid state imaging device and illustrated as the solid state imaging device . In optical axis Z of an observation optical system by the objective lens for an endoscope is indicated by a dot dashed line. The structure in which the optical path is bent as illustrated in is adopted. Therefore as illustrated in a straight view type observation optical system is configured in the lower half of the leading end portion and a treatment tool insertion channel is configured in the upper half of the leading end portion . It is possible to arrange many elements in the insertion unit with a small diameter.

So far the present invention has been described by using embodiments and examples. However the present invention is not limited to the embodiments nor to the examples and various modifications are possible. For example values of a curvature radius a surface distance a refractive index an Abbe number and the like of each lens element are not limited to the values in the numerical value examples but may be other values.

For example all of the objective lenses for endoscopes in the aforementioned examples consist of refractive lenses using no aspherical surface. However the objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention is not limited to this. The objective lens for an endoscope of the present invention may be structured to correct chromatic aberrations and various aberrations by using one of an aspherical surface a GRIN Gradient Index lens a refractive index distribution lens and a diffraction optical element or an arbitrary combination themof.

