---

title: Text-augmented interactive self-service terminal sessions
abstract: Various embodiments include text-augmented interactive self-service terminal sessions as may be implemented in whole or in part according to one or more of the systems, methods and software illustrated and described herein. One method embodiment includes an SST and a remote service representative terminal device. The remote service representative terminal device captures live audio and video to form a multimedia stream and performs speech-to-text processing against the audio to obtain text. The text is then added to the multimedia stream. In some embodiments, the multimedia stream is then provided over a network to the SST. The SST may then provide a view of audio and video of the multimedia stream along with a view of the text. The text in such embodiments is presented synchronously with the audio and video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495669&OS=09495669&RS=09495669
owner: NCR Corporation
number: 09495669
owner_city: Duluth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140626
---
Increasingly consumers are conducting financial transactions through Self Service Terminals SSTs without the assistance of a teller or clerk. In fact in many cases these transactions are conducted without any individual other than a consumer in the vicinity of the SSTs other than perhaps a security camera integrated into the SSTs or in proximity to the SSTs. However there are times when a consumer may prefer or feel a need to speak directly to a teller or clerk. Additionally entities providing service via SSTs may desire to provide consumers an option for human interaction.

Interactive SSTs such as the NCR Interactive Teller available from NCR Corporation of Duluth Ga. provide multimedia human interactive session capabilities for such purposes. Through such interactive SSTs consumers are able to communicate with service representatives via video and audio exchanged between an SST and a service representative computing device. However the service representative may be located virtually anywhere and may speak with an accent may speak very quickly or may speak a language not understood by the SST consumer. Additionally an environment within which the SST is located may be noisy making it difficult for the SST consumer to hear audio coming from a speaker or telephone like handset of the SST. Further the SST consumer may be hard of hearing. These and similar audio related issues confound full utility realization of such interactive SSTs by all consumers.

Various embodiments include text augmented interactive self service terminal sessions as may be implemented in whole or in part according to one or more of the systems methods and software illustrated and described herein.

One method embodiment that may be performed at one or more locations within a computing environment including at least one SST includes a remote service representative terminal device. The remote service representative terminal device may perform a method including capturing live audio and video and performing speech to text processing with regard to the captured audio to obtain text. The audio and video may be received already joined in a single multimedia stream or a multimedia stream may be formed therefrom. In either case the text is then added to the multimedia stream. In some embodiments the multimedia stream is then provided over a network to an SST. The receiving SST may then provide a view of audio and video of the multimedia stream along with a view of the text. The text in such embodiments is presented synchronously with the audio and video.

Various embodiments include at least one of systems methods and software that can be implemented with regard to interactive Self Service Terminals SSTs . Some such embodiments provide text representations of a least a portion of oral communication between an SST consumer and a remote service representative. Interactive SSTs generally provide an ability for an SST consumer to initiate and conduct an audio and video enabled communication session with a remote service representative.

For example in some embodiments the SST may be an Automated Teller Machine ATM an SST consumer may be a banking customer and a remote service representative may be a bank teller located in a location remote to the ATM. The SST consumer may input a bank card and a Personal Identification Number PIN number to authenticate in relation to one or more accounts. The SST consumer may then manipulate various control elements of the SST to request an interactive session with a remote service representative. An interactive session including video and audio is then initiated. A camera and a microphone present on the SST as well as a camera and microphone present on a remote service representative computing device are activated. Audio and video between the SST and the computing device of the remote service representative are then exchanged in a live multimedia session.

During the live multimedia session the SST consumer may have difficulty understanding or hearing speech of the remote service representative for a variety reasons. Such reasons may be due to a different language or accent of the remote service representative noise present within an environment of the SST hearing deficiencies of the SST consumer or any other or combination of reasons. Regardless of the reason various embodiments herein provide a textual view on the SST that is synchronized with audio of the live multimedia session.

For example the textual view may be generated from text added to a live multimedia data stream received from the remote service representative computing device. The text may be added to the live multimedia data stream on the remote service representative computing device by a host that operates on a network between the remote service representative computing device and the SST or locally on the SST.

Regardless of where the text data is added the text is obtained in some embodiments by submitting at least the audio of the live multimedia data stream to a speech to text module. An example of a speech to text module is a speech to text Application Programming Interface API available from Nuance Communications Inc. of Burlington Mass. that outputs text. The text is then added to the live multimedia data stream.

Some embodiments may further include abilities to translate the text added to the live multimedia data stream from one language or local form of a language to another language or local form of the language. For example the text may be translated from English to Spanish or from a British English form to a United States English form. In some such embodiments the text may be translated prior to additional to the live multimedia data stream on the same or a collocated computing device that performs the speech to text processing. In other embodiments the translation may occur on a computing device that is presenting the text such as the SST or the remote service representative computing device.

Although such embodiments are described in the context of presenting text of a live multimedia data stream to an SST consumer the same or similar processes may be performed to present text on the remote service representative computing device.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

The RST is a computing device utilized by a remote service clerk. The remote service clerk via the RST may provide teller checkout clerk or cashier customer service and other such types of service to SST consumers.

The SST in some embodiments is an ATM. In other embodiments the SST is a self service point of sale terminal. In further embodiments the SST may be a kiosk such as in a shopping mall amusement park auto dealer hotel airport airline hub or other location where consumers may desire to gain electronic access to data and in some instances interact with remote service personnel via the SST .

The host in some embodiments is a transaction processing host that processes transaction initiated or otherwise performed with the SST . In some embodiments the host is a banking system that processes one or more of banking transactions debit or credit card transactions and other financial services transactions. The host is typically connected to the RST and SST via a network to enable exchange of data there between. In some embodiments the network that interconnects the host RST and SST is a single network established and maintained in accord with one or more of statutory regulatory industry standard network operator and other policies and requirements such as may apply to banking type transactions. In some additionally embodiments some data may be carried over such a network such as specific financial transaction data while other data may be carried over a second network such as live multimedia session data that may be carried over the Internet. Thus data interconnections between the host RST and SST may be made via a single network two networks or more networks depending on the particular embodiment.

Within the system only one of each of the RST host and SST are illustrated. However other embodiments may include a plurality of each of one or more of the RST host and SST . Further although the host may be a single computing device in some embodiments the host in other embodiments may be implemented on a server cluster on a plurality of servers or server clusters that are geographically distributed.

The RST in some embodiments is a computing device that includes remote service software a display device Input Output I O devices a microphone and a camera . The remote service software is software through which a remote service person remotely interacts with the SST and conducts live multimedia sessions with SST consumers which can generally be thought of as video calls.

For example the remote service software includes software that enables connection to and interaction with the SST such as to receive and present data representative of user input i.e. tendered currency and checks and to issue commands i.e. a currency dispense command . Additionally the remote service software includes functionality to facilitate live multimedia interactivity with SST consumers. In particular the remote service software is able to receive video from the camera and audio from the microphone to combine into a multimedia data stream. The multimedia data stream may include multiple channels such as video audio and one or more data channels some channels of which may be time synchronized. For example the multimedia data stream may be a data stream that may be played by an application plug in such as the FLASH player available from ADOBE Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. The remote service software also typically includes functionality to receive a multimedia data stream from the SST and present a view thereof within a user interface of the remote service software . An example of such a user interface is illustrated in . Accordingly the remote service software may also include an application plug in or native functionality allowing the remote service software to present a view of a multimedia data stream received from the SST .

In some embodiments the remote service software includes or has access to a speech to text module. The remote service software in such embodiments feeds a live audio stream of audio as captured by the microphone to the speech to text module and receives text in response thereto. The remote service software then adds text in synchronization with the captured audio to the multimedia data stream that is sent to the SST . In some embodiments the remote service software may also feed an audio stream of a multimedia data stream received from the SST to the speech to text module to receive text. That text is then either added to the received multimedia data stream which is then presented within a view of the live multimedia session presented by the remote service software or is presented directly in the view of the live multimedia session without adding it to the received multimedia data stream.

In some embodiments the remote service software also includes or has access to a text translation module to translate text from the speech to text module into a different language or regional form of a language such as between British or Indian English forms to an American English form. In such embodiments the text translation module may be invoked by the remote service software based on a determination of whether the text from the speech to text module is to be translated. This determination may be made based on translation configuration data. Translation configuration data may include a configuration setting associated with one or both of the SST and the remote service software . The translation configuration data may also or alternatively include input received from the SST or within the remote service software . The text once translated may then be added to the added to the proper multimedia data stream or presented within a view of the live multimedia session as previously discussed.

In some embodiments the remote service software exchanges data including the multimedia data stream with a remote session module of the SST via the host . In such embodiments transaction related data may be exchanged via a transaction processing system of the host while live multimedia session data may be exchanged via a multimedia session management module . In some such embodiments the multimedia session management module once helping establish a live multimedia session between the remote service software and the remote session module of the SST may provide data to facilitate transfer of the live multimedia session to a peer to peer connection. Such a peer to peer connection may be established between the remote service software and the remote session module of the SST over the same or a different network. In such peer to peer embodiments transaction related data such as data representative of tendered currency and commands to dispense currency may still be communicated via the transaction processing system of the host .

In some embodiments the multimedia session management module may include or have access to the text to speech module. In such embodiments the host maintains the text to speech module rather than the remote service software of the RST or the remote session module of the SST . Similarly the host may also maintain or have access to the translation module as discussed above.

The SST includes SST software the remote session module a display which may be a touch screen display I O devices a microphone and a camera . The SST software is software that operates the SST to present output and receive input such as to authenticate an SST consumer and facilitate transaction therewith. The remote session module adds interactive session capabilities to the SST software such as may be in the form of a live multimedia session with the remote service software on the RST . The remote session module may be a part of the SST software an add on module to the SST software or a distinct application that executes on the SST in different embodiments.

In some embodiments the remote session module operates on the SST in concert with the SST software to facilitate live interactive multimedia sessions such as for banking point of sale and customer service purposes. The remote session module operates to receive a live multimedia session data stream from the remote service software of the RST and to form and provide a live multimedia session data stream to the remote service software of the RST including audio data and video data captured by the microphone and camera respectively. The remote session module also provides a view and plays audio of received multimedia session data. When presenting a view of video included in the multimedia session data the remote session module may extract text from the multimedia session data and also present a view of the text in synchronization with the video and audio. However in some embodiments the audio may not be played instead opting only to present the text.

In some embodiments the remote session module may include or have access to one or both of the speech to text and translation modules as discussed above. The speech to text module may be invoked to obtain a text transcript of audio in a received multimedia data stream when a text transcript is not included in the received multimedia data stream. The speech to text module may also be invoked to obtain text to add to a multimedia data stream generated on the SST . The translation module may be invoked to translate text received in or generated from a multimedia data stream prior to presentation or to translate text to be added to a multimedia data stream generated on the SST .

The speech to text module may include abilities to generate text from speech in one or more different languages. The speech to text module may auto detect a spoken language or receive input or have a configuration setting designating the spoken language. The translation module may receive a command utilize one or more configuration settings or otherwise be aware of a language selection of a user to determine a language of received text and to determine a language into which to translate the text. As noted above the translation may include a translation from one regional form of a language into another regional form.

The user interface includes a transaction summary presentation a video area a text transcript area and a set of control buttons. The set of control buttons includes a VIEW TRANSCRIPT button to turn on a view of the text in the transcript area . The set of control buttons also includes ENGLISH button and SPANISH button . The ENGLISH button and SPANISH button are selectable to specify a language in which to present transcript text within the transcript area when activated with the VIEW TRANSCRIPT button . When a translation button is selected software on the SST presenting the user interface may perform the translation or send a command to a host or to an RST indicating the selected language. Similarly when the VIEW TRANSCRIPT button is selected a command may also be sent to one or both of the host and an RST to turn the transcript generation on or off. However in other embodiments selection of the VIEW TRANSCRIPT button does not send any commands and instead simply changes whether or not the transcript text is presented within the transcript area .

In another embodiment the user interface does not include a transcript area . Instead transcript text when enabled for presentation is presented over a portion of the video area . Regardless of where transcript text is presented the video area is an area within the user interface that video of a multimedia data stream is presented.

The user interface may also include other controls and areas to control other functions of the SST the live multimedia session or to present views of other data. Similarly the user interface may include fewer controls and areas in other embodiments.

The user interface includes a video area a text transcript area a CONNECT button to accept a live multimedia session from an SST a HOLD button to place the live multimedia session on hold as if it were a telephone call and a set of transaction button that may be selected to initiate particular transaction types. The user interface also includes a transaction summary area within which transaction related data of a live multimedia session is presented. The user interface additionally includes a set of control buttons. The set of control buttons includes a VIEW TRANSCRIPT button to turn on a view of the text in the transcript area . The set of control buttons also includes ENGLISH button and SPANISH button . The ENGLISH button and SPANISH button are selectable to specify a language in which to present transcript text within the transcript area when activated with the VIEW TRANSCRIPT button . When a translation button is selected software on the RST presenting the user interface may perform the translation or send a command to a host or to the SST indicating the selected language. Similarly when the VIEW TRANSCRIPT button a command may also be sent to one or both of the host and an SST to turn the transcription generation on or off. However in other embodiments selection of the VIEW TRANSCRIPT button does not send any commands and instead simply changes whether or not the transcript text is presented within the transcript area .

The user interface also includes an area within which transaction related documents may be viewed. For example an SST user may be making a deposit of a check. A check may be inserted into the SST and the SST may scan a front and back of the check. Images of the check front and back scans may then be presented in the area allowing the RST user to confirm check details.

The user interface may also include other controls and areas to control other functions of the RST and software present thereon the live multimedia session or to present views of other data. Similarly the user interface may include fewer controls and areas in other embodiments.

For example the user interface may include a predefined selection area that includes a plurality of selectable controls through . Selection area enables a user who is mute and who has difficulty entering text via a keyboard to communicate easily and quickly via the live chat text area . The shortcut text controls may request a transaction type or may include general conversational text such as I would like to so that the customer can select that text the supplement it with manually entered text.

Three of these selectable controls through are function controls that allow the customer to perform predefined functions namely to present a numeric keypad to present a text keyboard and to delete text from the live chat session . In addition nine of the selectable controls through are predefined shortcut text controls.

When a customer selects the withdraw cash selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to withdraw cash. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to withdraw cash .

When a customer selects the deposit cash selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to deposit cash. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to deposit cash .

When a customer selects the pay a bill selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to pay a bill. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to pay a bill .

When a customer selects the deposit a check selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to deposit a check. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to deposit a check .

When a customer selects the cash a check selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to cash a check. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to cash a check .

When a customer selects the transfer selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to transfer money to an account. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to transfer money to an account .

When a customer selects the new account selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to open a new account. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to open a new account .

When a customer selects the statement selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to obtain a statement. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to obtain a statement .

When a customer selects the loan application selectable control then the user interface communicates a statement to a remote agent such as a human operator at the RST via the live chat area indicating that the customer would like to complete a loan application. The full statement that is communicated to the RST may comprise a sentence such as I would like to complete a loan application .

The method includes capturing video and audio on the RST within a live multimedia session with a SST such as the RST and SST of . The method may then submit audio to a speech to text module to obtain text and determine whether the text is to be translated into another language. When the text is to be translated the text is submitted to a translation module. The text is then received from the speech to text module including any translation that may have been performed. The method then builds a multichannel data stream with the video audio and text. However in other embodiments the multichannel data stream may already exist. In such embodiments the text is added to a text channel of the multichannel data stream. The multichannel data stream is then transmitted or submitted depending on the embodiment. For example the multichannel data stream may be transmitted to a host or to the SST in some embodiments. However in other embodiments a process of remote service software on the RST may handle the transmission function. As such the multichannel data stream may instead be submitted to the remote service software.

The method includes initiating an interactive multimedia session on an interactive SST with a RST device. Initiating an interactive multimedia session may include requesting a connection with a service representative by selecting a connect button that may be presented on a touch screen display device on the SST. In such embodiments upon receipt of a selection of the connect button the method may generate and transmit via a network an interactive multimedia session request to a host. The host may relay the connection request to an RST. In response thereto interactive multimedia session connectivity data is received from the host. A connection is then established according to the received connectivity data.

After a connection is established between the SST and the RST which may include a connection made via a host the method includes receiving a multimedia data stream from the RST device. The multimedia data stream typically includes audio video and data channels. The data channel may include speech to text data providing a textual representation of speech included in the audio channel. The method further includes presenting on a display of the SST such as the touch screen display device the video channel synchronously with a view of text of the speech to text data included in the data channel. The presenting may further include playing audio from the audio channel through a speaker of the SST via a telephone like handset or via a headphone jack of the SST. However the SST may include a selectable option to disable the presenting of the text of the speech to text data included in the data channel.

Some embodiments of the method also include presenting on the display of the SST at least two language options for presentation of the text of the speech to text data included in the data channel. Upon receipt of language option input with regard to one of the at least two language options the method in such embodiments includes triggering a translation operation such that the presenting of the text is performed in a language according to the received language option input. Triggering of the translation operation may cause the translation to be performed locally on the SST or transmission of a command to the host or to the RST depending upon where a translation module is deployed or is accessible in the particular embodiment. In some such embodiments the at least two language options include at least two nationalizing options with regard to the same language such a British American Canadian or Australian forms of English.

Computer may include or have access to a computing environment that includes input output and a communication connection . The input may include one or more of a keyboard a personal identification number PIN pad a touch screen a video camera a microphone a biometric reading device and the like. The output may include one or more of a receipt printer a video monitor one or more speakers one or more headphone jacks to which another audio output device maybe coupled a handset including both a speaker and a microphone a currency dispenser tactile output and other output devices depending on the particular embodiment.

The computer operates in a networked environment using a communication connection to connect to one or more remote computers such as host computer. The communication connection may include a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a private dedicated network or other networks that provide sufficient security that may be needed or required by statute regulation other law or policy. In some embodiments the network is a network dedicated to connecting SSTs to one or more hosts. In some embodiments a remote service representative terminal device may also connect to such a dedicated network.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a non transitory computer readable medium. For example a computer program capable of providing SST functionality remote service representative terminal device functionality or to perform at least a portion of one or more of the methods and processes described herein may be included on a CD ROM or a portable hard drive and loaded therefrom to a local hard drive.

An additional embodiment may be in the form of a method that may be performed on one or more of an SST a host and an RST. This method includes performing speech to text processing of an audio portion of a multimedia data stream of a live multimedia session between an SST and a service representative terminal device to obtain text. The method then augments the multimedia data stream with the text. In some such embodiments augmenting the multimedia data stream with text includes adding the text to the multimedia data stream in a manner such that when the multimedia data stream is presented by a recipient computing device the text is presented synchronously with a rendering of a video portion of the multimedia data stream presentation.

In a further of such embodiments the method includes performing a language translation on the text from the speech to text processing to obtain translated text. The augmenting of the multimedia data stream with the text in such embodiments includes augmenting the data stream with the translated text.

In one or more of these additional method embodiments the multimedia data stream includes two multimedia data streams. A first of the two multimedia data streams is received over a network by a host from the SST and a second of the two multimedia data streams is received over the network by the host from the RST device. In such embodiments the method is performed by the host on at least one of the first and second multimedia data streams.

A further embodiment is in the form of a system. The system of such embodiments includes at least one processor at least one memory device a video camera a microphone and at least one network interface device. The system also includes a speech to text module stored in the at least one memory device and executable by the at least one processor to receive an audio input and provide a text output. An RST application is also stored in the at least one memory device and executable by the at least one processor.

The RST application in such embodiments is executable to establish via the at least one network interface device a live multimedia session with an interactive SST and to present a view of a video channel and output audio of an audio channel the video and audio channels being channels of a first multichannel multimedia stream received from the SST. The RST application is further executable to capture video from the video camera synchronously with audio from the microphone into a second multichannel multimedia stream and to feed audio captured from the microphone to the speech to text module to obtain the text output. The RST application then adds the text output to a data channel of the second multichannel multimedia stream and transmits via the at least one network interface device the second multichannel multimedia stream to the SST.

In some embodiments the RST application is further executable by the at least one processor to receive financial transaction input with regard to a financial transaction on the SST and to generate at least one SST command based on the received financial transaction input. The RST application may then transmit via the at least one network interface device data representative of the at least one SST command to the SST. The transmitting of the data representative of the at least one SST command to the SST may include adding data representative of the at least one SST command to the data channel of the second multichannel multimedia stream that is transmitted to the SST.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

