---

title: Devices, systems, and methods for responding to telemarketers
abstract: Aspects of the disclosure provide responses from a communication device to a call from an unknown source, such as telemarketers. In certain aspects, information associated with a communication address of the unknown source can be accessed by the communication device, and a response to the call can be specific to some or all of the information. In other aspects, the responses can be automated and/or can be directed, at least in part, by external input supplied to the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350858&OS=09350858&RS=09350858
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09350858
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141222
---
Telemarketing calls are quite common even for numbers on the national do not call list. These calls also can use automated messages which is in contravention of existing regulations. Telemarketers calls may not be identified at the time of receiving the call at a communication device or other type of communication devices. Therefore a response from the mobile device to a marketer call can be limited to pre emptily terminating the call without answering it.

The disclosure recognizes and addresses in at least certain aspects the issue of responding to communication calls from telemarketers and other types of unknown callers. More specifically embodiments of the disclosure provide responses from a communication device e.g. a smartphone to a call from an unknown source such as a telemarketer. In certain aspects information associated with a communication address of the unknown source can be accessed by the communication device and a response to the call can be specific to some or all of the information. In other aspects the responses can be automated and or can be directed at least in part by external input supplied to the communication device.

In accordance with the present disclosure communication devices that can utilize or otherwise leverage the techniques for response to calls from unknown calling systems in accordance with this disclosure can generally include one or more processors and one or more memory devices communication devices e.g. a system bus a memory bus or the like input output interface s that can include display device s and or a radio unit for wireless communication. More specifically in one example a communication device in accordance with this disclosure can be embodied in a tethered computing device or a portable computing device such as a mobile tablet computer an electronic book reader also referred to as an e reader a mobile telephone e.g. a smartphone and the like. In another example the communication device can be embodied in or can comprise a wearable computing device such as a watch goggles or head mounted visors or the like. In yet another example the communication device can be embodied in or can comprise portable consumer electronics equipment such as a camera a media reproduction device a portable television set a gaming console a navigation device a voice over internet protocol VoIP telephone or two way communication device and the like.

With reference to the drawings illustrates an example operational environment that can respond to a communication call herein generally referred to as call or call session from an unknown calling system in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure. As illustrated a caller communication platform can initiate the communication call labeled as call in with a communication device which is represented for the sake of illustration with a wireless smartphone via a communication pathway . The communication call can be embodied in or can include a voice call or a data session implemented using a cellular radio telecommunication protocol VoIP protocols or protocols suitable for videotelephony. The caller communication platform can be embodied in or can include any communication device such as a predictive dialer suitable for communication automated or otherwise with the communication device . The first communication pathway can be established via at least one network of a group of one or more networks and can utilize one or more telecommunication protocols packet switched circuit switched or a combination thereof that can exchange voice natural and or simulated data and or signaling e.g. tones numeric codes alphanumeric codes or the like . As an example the at least one network can include a cellular network or a portion thereof and an internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS platform. The network s can include wireless and or wired communication networks having various footprints e.g. a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a local area network LAN a home area network HAN and or a personal area network PAN .

As part of a communication call established between the caller communication platform and the communication device the communication device can receive a telephone number of the caller communication platform . Establishing the communication call can include receiving signaling and or payload information at the communication device from the caller information platform and initiating a session for exchange information e.g. voice and or data between the communication device and the caller communication platform . A portion of the received signaling and or payload information can include a request to establish the session and in certain embodiments acceptance logic e.g. response rules may be implemented at the communication device or a remote device coupled therewith in order to accept or decline the request prior to initiating such a session. The communication call can begin upon initiation of such a session and can end in response to the communication device submitting signaling or other information to terminate the session. Each of the communication call and the session may be referred to as a connection. In certain scenarios the telephone number may be unknown or otherwise unavailable to the communication device . For instance the communication device can determine that the telephone number is not included in an address book or other type of listing of known telephone numbers e.g. a list of contacts . Therefore in one example the communication device can transmit the telephone number labeled as caller tel. no. in to a caller analysis server in order to obtain caller information that can characterize the caller communication platform . Such information may be available in one or more storage platforms referred to as storage and in certain embodiments can be crowd sourced or otherwise user generated. In other embodiments the caller analysis server can generate at least a portion of the caller information. As illustrated the storage can include one or more memory elements such as register s file s database s or the like that can contain at least a portion of the caller information. As such the one or more memory elements may be referred to as caller info. or more generally caller info. and can include data and or metadata indicative or otherwise representative of various aspects of a caller.

The caller info. that can be accessed by the caller analysis server can include information that permits more than determining if a caller telephone number is associated with a telemarketer or other type of commercial entity e.g. a debt collector or a banking representative . More specifically in certain embodiments at least a portion of the information can be indicative or otherwise representative of numerous aspects of operation pertaining to the caller telephone number. For example some or all of the information can convey that automated recorded calls originate from the telephone number. For another example some or all of the information can convey that the telephone number is associated with a specific business or commercial entity e.g. a hospital or dentist office . For yet another example some or all of the information can convey that the telephone number is associated with callers known to be associated with fraudulent activities or with other types of illegitimate callers as opposed to telemarketers or other types of legitimate callers. A fraudulent activity may be referred to as a scam and can include for example communications intended to obtain personal or other sensitive information e.g. date of birth social security number parents names or the like from an end user of the communication device in exchange for false assets e.g. vacations gifts cash payments etc. or false services such as identity theft protection . A caller associated with fraudulent activities may be referred to as a scammer. Accordingly it can be appreciated that the information accessed or otherwise generated by the caller analysis server can permit identifying potentially harmful callers or otherwise unacceptable callers. In certain embodiments the legitimacy of a caller can be specific to the communication device and certain types of callers can be legitimate or otherwise acceptable to the communication device while being illegitimate or otherwise unacceptable to another communication device. For instance the caller analysis server can utilize or otherwise leverage device activity information such as web browsing histories call history activity logs user profiles combinations thereof or the like in order to determine if a caller telephone number is associated with a caller that is legitimate or otherwise acceptable to the communication device . The activity logs can include information indicative or otherwise representative of applications or other type of software executed or otherwise utilized at the communication device information indicative of financial transactions made at or via the communication device a combination thereof or the like. As an illustration in one implementation the caller analysis server can access at least a portion of the device activity information from the communication device and can determine the legitimacy of the caller based at least on the device activity information. More specifically the caller analysis server can query or otherwise receive device activity information from the communication device and can apply one or more rules to determine a likelihood of the caller being a legitimate or otherwise acceptable caller. In certain embodiments the caller analysis server can send information indicative of such likelihood to the communication device which can compare the received likelihood to a threshold in order to determine if the caller is legitimate and or associated with an acceptable business activity e.g. likelihood above the threshold can convey the caller is legitimate and or associated with an acceptable business activity. In another implementation the caller analysis server can receive a list of acceptable callers e.g. a list of telephone numbers permitted to contact the communication device or a list of acceptable types of caller. Each of such lists may be referred to as a white list and the caller analysis server can compare the white list to the telephone number of a caller or a type assigned to the caller in order to determine the legitimacy of the caller.

For still another example some or all of the information included in the caller info. can convey one or more relationships between the telephone number of the caller communication platform and other telephone number s e.g. such information can convey that the telephone number is affiliated with other entities such as telemarketers scammers and the like. For a further example the caller analysis server can receive a report from the communication device or other communication devices not depicted in that can indicate that the caller telephone number is associated with a telemarketer or other types of commercial entity. As such the caller analysis server can determine or otherwise identify a group of one or more current telephone numbers each associated with a respective telemarketer or other type of commercial entity. A telephone number in such a group can be current as of certain period e.g. present hour present day present week or the like . The caller analysis server can retain or otherwise store report s received from a communication device within the caller info. . In addition or in other embodiments the caller analysis server can retain a list of current telephone numbers associated with a telemarketer or another type of commercial entity. Further or in other embodiments the caller analysis server can receive a directive or another type of instruction information to include the caller telephone number or other types of communication address associated with the telemarketer in a do not call list and or a block list including telephone number s that are not permitted to establish a communication call with the communication device . The same list or a similar type of list can be retained or otherwise stored at a memory device in the communication device .

For a still further example a portion of the caller info. can include information indicative of otherwise representative of an audio signature associated with an audio segment provided e.g. played back or otherwise transmitted by a caller communication platform e.g. a telemarketer platform or a communication platform for other type of commercial entity . The audio signature can include one or more of a information indicative or otherwise representative of a keyword a phrase or other type of utterance that is specific to the communication platform b information indicative of otherwise representative of a spectral decomposition e.g. a group of audible frequencies associated with the audio segment c information indicative of a compressed version of the audio segment a combination thereof or the like. As such in certain embodiments availability of audio signatures at the communication device can permit determining the nature of the business activity of the caller communication platform. For instance the communication device can compare an audio signature for a caller associated with the caller telephone number with an audio input signal received during a call from the caller communication platform . Such a comparison can determine or otherwise identify the call from the caller communication platform as being legitimate or fraudulent.

As illustrated the caller telephone number or other type of communication address can be transmitted to the caller analysis server via a communication pathway . In certain implementations the telephone number can be transmitted after or while initiating or otherwise establishing the communication call between the caller communication platform and the communication device and prior to providing or otherwise implementing a response to the call by the communication device . It should be appreciated that while reference is made to a telephone number in the embodiments illustrated herein the present disclosure is not so limited and other types of communication addresses are contemplated. As such a communication address in accordance with this disclosure can be embodied in or can include a telephone number a subscriber number an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI an electronic serial number ESN an internet protocol IP address a session initiation protocol SIP address a uniform resource locator URL or other type of uniform resource identifier URI a media access control MAC address and or any other information that can be utilized or otherwise leveraged to identify a communication device and or system with which to establish a communication link for the exchange of audio data audio metadata video data video metadata and or signaling associated with such an exchange. In certain embodiments the second communication pathway can be embodied in one or more out of band channels available for communication within the communication protocol utilized to establish a call session between the communication device and the caller analysis server .

The caller analysis server can receive the caller telephone number associated with the caller communication platform and can send at least a portion of the caller information available for the caller telephone number. The communication device can receive such information labeled as caller info. and can respond to the communication call from the caller communication platform based at least on such information. As such the communication device can generate response information in response to the communication call from the caller communication platform . The response information can include for example tones or other type of code information that can embody or can constitute the response to the communication call. In addition or in another example the response information can include audio output signal e.g. an audio signal indicative of a predetermined utterance e.g. hello or another keyword or phrase or a portion of the communication call in response to the communication call from the caller communication platform . In certain implementations the audio output signal can be provided e.g. transmitted prior to receiving audio input signal associated with the communication call. In addition or in other implementations the communication device can transmit at least a portion of the response information to a third party server such as a server of a law enforcement platform not depicted in as a record of the call and or for analysis thereof.

In certain embodiments the communication device can retain at least a portion of the caller information that is received and or the caller telephone number. Such information and or the caller telephone number can be retained in a memory device integrated into the communication device or functionally coupled thereto. In certain implementations the communication device can utilize or otherwise leverage device activity information such as web browsing histories call history activity logs combinations thereof or the like in order to determine if the caller telephone number and or a portion of the caller information is to be retained at the communication device . The activity logs can include information indicative or otherwise representative of applications or other type of software executed or otherwise utilized at the communication device information indicative of financial transactions made at or via the communication device a combination thereof or the like. In one implementation the caller telephone number and or the portion of the caller information can be retained for a specific period prior to being removed from the memory device. In other implementations the caller telephone number can be retained indefinitely and can be removed from the memory device in response to input information received at the communication device . The input information can convey a request for removal of the caller telephone number from the memory device.

In scenarios in which the caller information received from the caller analysis server conveys that the caller communication platform is a telemarketer or other type of commercial entity the communication device may not ring nor vibrate or convey other type of information indicative of reception of the communication call . In addition or in other embodiments the communication device can terminate the call after initiation thereof e.g. immediately after initiation or after a certain period . Further or in other embodiments the communication device can direct the communication call to voice mail. In yet other embodiments the communication device can modify current settings. The ring tone vibration settings could be changed so the user will have some clue about the trustworthiness of the caller before deciding if they want to have time to answer.

In certain embodiments in response to the communication call from the caller communication platform the communication device can generate one or more specific tones or other type of code information that can convey to the caller that the communication device is disconnected from service. It should be appreciated that the communication device need not be actually disconnected but it provides a response that provides the appearance of the communication device being disconnected from service. For example the communication device can generate one or more special information tones SITs . In addition or in another example the communication device can generate audio output signal that can present the communication device to the caller communication platform as being disconnected. For example the audio output signal can convey the following message this number has been disconnected please check your number and try again. As a response the communication device can transmit the tone s or code information and or the audio output signal to the caller communication platform . In certain scenarios receiving such a response can cause the caller communication platform to classify the telephone number of the communication device as inactive or otherwise unavailable and to cease to initiate communication calls with the communication device .

In other embodiments a response to a communication call from the caller communication platform can include an automated challenge response message. The challenge response message or information can permit to discriminate a human caller from an automated caller and can include a challenge having a unique solution which represents the expected response from the caller communication platform or any other caller device. The challenge can be embodied in or can include for example a question e.g. who was the first president of the United States or what is the capital of North Dakota a riddle a mathematical or logical problem a combination thereof or the like. In certain embodiments the challenge response message can prompt the caller to provide a response to the challenge e.g. the caller can be instructed to use a keypad or other input device to enter the response e.g. a number or code a phrase or the like . The solution associated with the challenge can be retained or otherwise stored at least temporarily in a memory device of the communication device . The communication device can transmit the challenge response message to the caller communication platform via the pathway prior to accepting the communication call. The challenge response message can be transmitted for example as an audio output signal that can permit a device of the caller communication platform to process and present the challenge response message. The device can include i an audio speaker and associated circuitry that can present the challenge response message aurally or ii a speech to text device that can display the challenge response message. As such the caller communication platform can receive the challenge response message and can provide a response to the challenge in the challenge response message or can terminate the communication call. The communication device can receive the response to the challenge and can determine if the response is correct. A correct response can cause the communication device to accept or otherwise permit the communication call to proceed. An incorrect response and or a response correct or incorrect received after a threshold period has elapsed can cause the communication device to terminate the communication call.

In order to provide the challenge response message the communication device can generate or otherwise access a challenge having a unique solution as described herein and can generate audio output signal indicative of the challenge. The audio output signal also can include optionally other information associated with the challenge such as reasons for the challenge message being provided or steps that may be taken in the event the challenge response message a combination thereof or the like. The challenge can be a mathematical challenge a logical challenge an aural repetition test e.g. a request to repeat a word a phrase one or more sentence a riddle a trivia question or any other type of problem with a unique or otherwise satisfactory solution. In certain embodiments the complexity of the challenge can be determined based at least on a portion of the caller information received at the communication device . For instance when the portion of the caller information identifies the caller communication platform as a caller with a high volume of automated calls the complexity of challenge can be high.

The communication device can report a response or an outcome to a challenge response message to the caller analysis server in order to augment the information available for the telephone number or other type of communication address associated with the caller communication platform . As an illustration when the caller information received at the communication device conveys that the caller communication platform is associated with or otherwise corresponds to a solicitor or other type of commercial entity the communication device can generate a challenge response message and audio output signal indicative or otherwise representative of such a message. As an example in one embodiment the challenge response message can be embodied in or can include the following this number does not accept solicitations if you are not a solicitor please state the value of 2 3. The communication device can generate audio output signal indicative of such a challenge response message and can transmit the audio output signal to the caller communication platform . The communication device can receive audio input signal representative of a response to the challenge response message from the caller communication platform and can determine if the response is correct. Receiving the correct response 5 in this example can cause the communication device to allow the communication call to proceed. The communication device also can transmit to the caller analysis server information that can characterize the caller communication platform as being associated with a human or an automated machine with speech recognition. The caller analysis server can retain such information in the storage .

In certain embodiments the communication call between the caller communication platform and the communication device can be initiated and allowed to proceed. In addition during the communication call the communication device can present a user interface UI including selectable or otherwise actionable indicia. Actuation of the indicia or other type of interaction with the indicia can cause the communication device to i terminate the call or ii terminate the call and report the telephone number associated with the caller communication platform as a telemarketer or other type of entity. As an illustration presents an example user interface that can be displayed after or upon a call from the caller communication platform is allowed to proceed. As illustrated the example UI can present a telephone number or other type of communication address of the caller communication platform and actionable indicia and where in response to respective actuation actionable indicia can cause the communication device to terminate the call and actionable indicia can cause the communication device to terminate the call and report the caller communication platform . In one example the caller communication platform can be reported by transmitting a message or other type of information to the caller analysis server where the message includes the telephone number of the caller and information that characterizes the caller as a telemarketer or other type of entity. To at least such an end in certain embodiments actuation of the indicia can cause the communication device to display a list of selectable options each conveying a type of entity e.g. telemarketer debt collector and the like that can be assigned to the caller.

The example UI also can include for example selectable or otherwise actionable indicia that can display or otherwise present information that characterizes the caller. As described herein at least a portion of such information can be received from the caller analysis server . It should be appreciated that while a specific arrangement number and relative sizes of the indicia are shown in the UI the disclosure is not so limited other arrangements and relative sizes can be considered. Similarly more or less than the number of indicia shown also can be contemplated.

In addition or in other embodiments a telephone number or other type of communication address associated with a communication call e.g. utilized to initiate the call can be reported as a telemarketer or other type of commercial entity after the call is terminated. To that end for example the communication device can provide a selectable option to report a telephone number in a call history of the communication device . As an illustration illustrates an example user interface that can present a portion of a call history of the communication device and selectable options to report a telephone number in the call history as a telemarketer or other type of commercial entity. The user interface includes indicia indicative of respective telephone numbers in the call history and indicia representative of a time generically labeled date of a respective call associated with a telephone number. Some of the indicia such as indicia and can represent telephone numbers included in an address book or other type of contact list of the communication device . Accordingly such indicia can include specific contact names instead of a telephone number. Other indicia such as indicia and can represent telephone numbers associated with unknown callers and are represented accordingly. As described herein an unknown caller can initiate a call with the communication device via the caller communication platform . Therefore in certain examples the unknown caller can be associated with a telemarketer or other type of entity commercial or otherwise .

As illustrated the indicia representative of a telephone number from an unknown caller can include selectable or otherwise actionable indicia that in response to actuation can cause the communication device to display or otherwise present e.g. emit sounds caller information. In one aspect the caller information can characterize an entity associated with the telephone phone in accordance with aspects described herein. More specifically indicia can represent a first unknown caller having the telephone number 1 555 251 4367 and can include selectable or otherwise actionable indicia labeled 5 that in response to actuation or other type of interaction therewith can present caller information. Each of the selectable or otherwise actionable indicia and includes a similar feature e.g. selectable or otherwise actionable indicia and

In addition for each of the indicia the example UI can include a selectable or otherwise actionable indicia that in response to actuation or other type of interaction such as selection can cause the communication device to report the telephone number as a telemarketer or other entity e.g. the American Red Cross a hospital or doctor office or the like . As such in certain embodiments actuation of the indicia can cause the communication device to display other indicia e.g. a fillable form such as an HTML form or other types of fillable fields that can prompt an end user of the communication device to input information that characterizes the caller as a telemarketer or other type of entity. At least a portion of the input information can be received via interaction with a display device or a microphone of the communication device . The communication device can transmit at least the portion of the received information to the caller analysis server via the pathway .

In certain embodiments the communication device can allow the call from the caller communication platform to proceed and can record at least a portion of the audio input signal and or other type of communication signal received from the caller communication platform . For instance the communication device can record the call for a specific period which can be shorter than or equal to the call duration. The recorded audio input signal can be utilized to analyze the call and generate intelligence about the caller communication platform . In one example the communication device can generate a signature in which the recorded audio input signal can be anonymized to remove private or other type of sensitive information associated with an end user of the communication device . The communication device can transmit such a signature to the caller analysis server for processing. In certain implementations as part of the processing the caller analysis server can perform voice detection and or speech recognition in order to determine if the call includes a known telemarketing message or if it is a common request from telemarketers or other type of entities legitimate or otherwise .

In addition or in other embodiments the communication device can present a selectable or otherwise actionable option to send a recorded portion of a communication call to a remote server or other type of remote computing device e.g. indicia shown in . In one example the remote server can be embodied in or can constitute a computing platform of a law enforcement agency. In another example the remote server can be embodied in or can include a computing platform for training of an expert system or other type of learning machine. The report can constitute information data and or metadata that can permit the computing platform e.g. the caller analysis server to improve the heuristics for detecting or otherwise identifying a telemarketer or other type of commercial entity. For example in certain scenarios a telemarketer plays the same audio segment or pre recording in each communication call to a communication device. As such one or more of the called communication device can report the audio segment to the computing platform which can infer or otherwise determine that the audio segment pertains to a telemarketer pre recording. In response to selection of such an option the communication device can transmit the recorded portion of the communication call to a communication device or other communication platform of a law enforcement agency. As described herein the recorded portion of the communication call can span a period shorter than or equal to the call duration.

In certain embodiments the communication device can allow the call to proceed and can respond with an utterance e.g. hello and can pause waiting for the telemarketer s system to connect a live agent. At that point for example the communication device can record the audio of the agent and can transmit it to the caller analysis server for correlation. In certain embodiments a telemarketer s specific voice based on previous calls may be recognized in a current call and thus regardless of the telephone number utilized to initiate the call with the communication device the caller analysis server can recognize the caller communication platform as a telemarketer. Depending on how much market the phone has this could even potentially record normal conversations and identify who that person really is their name personal phone number etc. . Depending on sophistication the communication device can interact with the caller communication platform . In one embodiment such interaction can include providing numbers or other codes to navigate menus in scenarios in which the caller communication platform embodies or includes an IVR system or other type of automated communication platform. In addition or in other embodiments as part of such an interaction the communication device can provide specific names email addresses or the like that can be used later to correlate the identity of the caller communication platform and how it uses the information provided by the communication device . Providing such information can permit or otherwise facilitate sharing information with law enforcement on non legitimate or criminal caller communication platforms.

In other embodiments the caller analysis server can query a repository associated with another server and in response the caller analysis server can access or otherwise receive information that characterizes or otherwise identifies a caller telephone number received from the communication device . As such in one example the caller analysis server can send caller information that identifies the caller telephone number and the communication device can display indicia representative of the caller identity. More specifically the caller analysis server can query an enterprise repository e.g. a database of an organization and can obtain identification ID information for an individual associated with the caller telephone number. The caller analysis server can then send the ID information to the communication device which can display it in conjunction with the caller telephone number and selectable indicia that can permit accepting the call or rejecting it. In addition or in other implementations the communication device can include a list of unacceptable callers which can be referred to as a black list do not call list block list or the like that can be compared to the received ID information. The communication device can reject a call in response to the ID information being included in the black list. The call can be rejected with or without the communication device presenting indicia indicative of the call e.g. the communication device may not ring nor vibrate in response to the incoming call .

As described herein in certain embodiments the response or behavior of the communication device associated with a call from the caller communication platform can be determined by caller information received from the caller analysis server . As described herein such information can be received periodically or otherwise from the caller analysis server . In addition or in other implementations the information can be received in response to an event such as in response to the communication device sending a caller telephone number associated with the call. Therefore it can be appreciated that lack of connectivity or other telecommunication issues between the communication device and the caller analysis server can preclude the communication device from responding to the call in accordance with aspects described herein. Accordingly in addition or in other embodiments the communication device can retain at least a portion of the received caller information and can respond to an incoming call regardless of being connected or otherwise in communication with the caller analysis server . For instance the communication device can receive a list of telephone numbers associated with a telemarketer and can retain the list within the caller info. . As such in response to receiving a call the communication device can compare the caller telephone number of the call with the list of telephone numbers and can determine that the caller telephone number is included in the list. In response the communication device can reject or otherwise process the call regardless of the connectivity status between the communication device and the caller analysis server . In a scenario in which a call is rejected based on the list of telephone numbers the list can effectively embody a no call or black list for the communication device . Further or in yet other embodiments the communication device can query periodically or otherwise the caller analysis server for caller information associated with a caller telephone number. The communication device can retain or otherwise store at least a portion of the information received in response to the query. The retained or otherwise stored caller information can permit responding to a call from the caller communication platform even in the presence of telecommunication issues between the communication device and the caller analysis server .

Information indicative or otherwise representative of a response to a call received at the communication device can be collected at the caller analysis server . The behavior of the caller communication platform after the response from the communication device also can be monitored. More specifically for a response effected by the communication device information on how the caller communication platform has responded e.g. no further calls from the caller have been received at the communication device calls from the caller communication platform have been received more frequently at the communication device calls from the caller communication platform have been received less frequently at the communication device additional telemarketing calls have been received at the communication device .

As illustrated the communication device can include one or more audio input units and one or more audio output units . At least one of the audio input unit s can include a microphone that can receive sound such as an utterance from an end user of the communication device . At least one of the audio output unit s can present the end user with one or more options related to responding to a call from a caller communication platform. More specifically in one example the at least one of the audio output unit s can present audio to the end user prompting the end user to record at least temporarily the call. To at least such an end in one example the audio output unit s can include at least one piezoelectric speaker that can transmit audio to an end user of the communication device .

In addition the communication device can include a display unit that can present or otherwise display various interfaces for management of a response to a call from a caller in accordance with aspects described herein. For instance the display unit can present the example user interfaces and shown in and respectively.

The communication device also can include a call response controller that can manage a response to a call received from a caller communication platform. In certain implementations the call response controller can access caller information from the memory for example. Based on at least a portion of such information the call response controller can cause the communication unit to reject a request to connect or to terminate initiation of a call received from the caller communication platform. To that end the call response controller can apply one or more response rules to the caller information and the outcome of the applied rule s can determine that the request is to be rejected. In addition or in other implementations for other caller information the outcome of the application of response rule s can determine or otherwise indicate that the request to connect is to be accepted and that the call is to be permitted to proceed. Therefore in one example the call response controller can cause the communication unit to establish the call and can cause the display unit to present a user interface including actionable options to accept or decline the call. In response to the call being accepted the display unit can present other user interface s such as example UI that can permit responding to the call. The response rules that can be leveraged or otherwise utilized by the call response controller can be retained in one or more memory elements referred to as response rule s .

As described herein the user interface displayed by the display unit can present selectable or otherwise actionable indicia representative of options to manage a call that is accepted or in progress. The call response controller can receive input information in response to selection of at least one such option and can cause e.g. can direct or can instruct the communication unit to operate in accordance with aspects described herein.

In certain embodiments the display unit can include an input interface such as a capacitive touchscreen or a resistive touchscreen combined with an input interface module that can permit receiving input information indicative of the selection. The input interface module can be included in the one or more input output I O interface s . In addition the I O interface s can include at least one port serial parallel or both at least one Ethernet port at least one pin and can permit communication of information between the communication device and an external electronic device such as another computing device e.g. a remote network device or an end user device .

As described herein in certain implementations the communication device can retain or otherwise store caller information in one or more memory elements referred to as caller info. of the memory . In one example the caller information can include a list of telephone numbers or other types of communication addresses. The caller information may be received in response to the communication device receiving a call and sending a telephone number associated with the call to a caller analysis server such as server . In addition or in other implementations the communication device can receive the caller information e.g. a list of telephone numbers from the caller analysis server. For instance the caller analysis server e.g. server can push or otherwise transmit a list of telephone numbers or other type of caller information to the communication device . Caller information can be pushed or otherwise transmitted to the communication device at specific times e.g. periodically or according to other schedule and or in response to an event. Further or in yet other implementations the communication device can query the caller analysis server for caller information associated with a caller telephone number. In response to the query the communication device can receive caller information and can retain or otherwise store at least a portion of the information. The communication device can retain the information available in the caller info. for a predetermined period and or until the communication device receives information to remove the information from the memory . The caller info. can permit the communication device to respond to a caller from an unknown caller platform without reliance on exchange of information with the caller analysis server e.g. the caller analysis server .

As illustrated the communication device includes a bus architecture . Two or more of the functional elements of the communication device can exchange information e.g. data metadata code instructions signaling and related payload data combinations thereof or the like through the bus architecture which can embody or can comprise at least one of a system bus an address bus a data bus a message bus a reference link or interface a combination thereof or the like. The bus architecture can include for example components for wireline and wireless communication.

The monitoring device can retain at least a portion of the device activity information in one or more memory elements referred to as activity info. . In certain implementations the communication device can utilize or otherwise rely on at least a portion of the activity info. in order to determine a response to a communication call received at the communication device. To that end in one example the call response controller can access a portion of the activity info. and can apply one or more response rule s to the accessed information. The outcome of the application of the applied response rule s can determine the response or specific action implemented by the communication device following a call from an unknown caller system e.g. the caller communication platform . As such in one aspect the communication device can respond to the call according to historical information of the communication device and thus the response can be germane to the communication device . As illustrated such response rule s can be retained in one or more memory elements .

In addition the communication device can include an analysis unit that can process at least a portion of the caller info. and can characterize a source of a call received at the communication device . The analysis unit can analyze the caller info. in a manner similar to that in which the caller analysis server analyzes the caller info. . Therefore it can be appreciated that the analysis unit can permit the communication unit to characterize a caller without reliance on the exchange of information with a remote computing device. As an illustration as described herein the caller info. can include a list of telephone numbers associated with respective telemarketers and as such the communication unit can identify the source of the call as being a telemarketer by comparing a caller telephone number to such a list. Therefore the communication device can reject or respond in a specific fashion to the call. In addition or as another illustration the caller information can include an audio signature associated with a telemarketer or another type of calling entity and thus the communication device can identify the source of the call as being a telemarketer by comparing incoming audio signal of the call to the audio signature. To that end in one example the analysis unit can analyze at least a portion of the incoming audio input signal in order to generate an incoming audio signature. To that end in one example the analysis unit can recognize one or more keywords e.g. words or phrases in the incoming audio input signal by implementing approaches or techniques for keyword spotting and or full fledged speech recognition. As such in one aspect the analysis unit can apply a keyword model to the incoming audio input signal where the keyword model e.g. a hidden Markov model HMM and or a Gaussian mixture model is directed to representing one or more predetermined keywords and predicting or otherwise providing a likelihood that observed audio input includes or otherwise conveys the one or more predetermined keywords. The keyword model can be retained in the memory e.g. within the response rule s . In another example the analysis unit can perform spectral analysis of at least a portion of the incoming audio input signal and can identify or otherwise determine certain audio frequencies present in the incoming audio input signal. The analysis unit can compare the incoming audio signature with the audio signature included in the caller info. . The communication device can reject or otherwise respond to the call of the so identified source without human intervention. In addition or in the alternative the comparison of an incoming audio signature with audio signature s available in the caller info. can permit the communication device to determine or otherwise identify the call as being associated with a fraudulent business activity or a legitimate business activity. Accordingly in one aspect the communication device can reject accept or otherwise respond to the call e.g. transmit at least a portion of the incoming audio input signal of the call to a remote device for analysis based on the identified type legitimate or fraudulent for example of the business activity. Therefore it can be appreciated that in response to a call received at the communication device the call response controller can apply one or more rules of the response rule s to caller information generated via the analysis unit . The outcome of the applied rule s can determine the response or other type of action performed by the communication device following a call from an unknown caller system.

It should be appreciated that in certain implementations the call response controller can apply one or more rules to a portion of the caller information generated by the analysis unit and a portion of the activity info. .

Further or in yet other implementations the analysis unit can analyze or otherwise process call recordings or other audio segments in order to generate an audio signature or other type of model for a caller communication platform. To that end in certain implementations the analysis unit can include a machine learning unit that implement statistical analysis to some or all of the recordings and or other audio segments to generate the audio signature. The statistical analysis can rely or otherwise leverage techniques for supervised and or non supervised machine learning.

In certain embodiments in order to access caller information via a query for example the analysis unit can utilize or otherwise leverage at least one of the I O interface s . The I O interface s can include at least one port serial parallel or both at least one Ethernet port at least one pin and can permit the exchange of information e.g. data metadata and or signaling between the caller analysis server and a resource such as a computing device directly or indirectly functionally coupled to the caller analysis server . The at least one of the I O interface s can receive information associated with the telephone number or other type of communication address associated with a caller communication platform. The analysis unit can process at least a portion of the received information and can generate as described herein feature information that can characterize the type of caller communication platform e.g. a telemarketer a banking institution or a representative thereof a debt collector a dentist office or the like a volume and or type of calls originated from the caller communication platform calling behavior such as typical time of day and or typical time of week that the caller communication platform initiates a call relationships between telephone numbers associated with the caller a combination thereof or the like.

At least a portion of the information that can be received and or generated at the caller analysis server can be provided to a caller information composition unit that can configure data and or metadata indicative or otherwise representative of a caller. Therefore in certain implementations the caller information composition unit can generate caller information corresponding to a caller communication platform related to a telephone number of other type of communication address. Specifically in one example the caller information can convey that a certain telephone number e.g. 1 555 123 4567 corresponds to a mortgage lender with low volume of calls that are placed in the evening during weekdays and that typically no voicemails are provided in calls are unanswered. Such caller information can be arranged in an XML file or other type of information structure that can be leveraged or otherwise utilized by a communication device in order to respond to a call from such a telephone number. As described herein the caller information so generated can be retained in one or more memory elements in one or more memory devices referred to as storage . It can be appreciated that the storage and the caller info. can embody or can constitute respectively the storage and the caller info. .

In certain implementations the caller info. can be indexed or otherwise catalogued according to the telephone number or other type of communication address of a caller communication platform. Therefore in one aspect the caller analysis server can receive a telephone number or other type of communication address and can determine if corresponding caller information is available. As described herein in response to the corresponding caller information being available the caller analysis server can send at least a portion of the caller information to the communication device that provided the telephone number or other type of communication address.

As illustrated the caller analysis server includes a bus architecture . Two or more of the functional elements of the caller analysis server can exchange information e.g. data metadata code instructions signaling and related payload data combinations thereof or the like through the bus architecture which can embody or can comprise at least one of a system bus an address bus a data bus a message bus a reference link or interface a combination thereof or the like. The bus architecture can include for example components for wireline and wireless communication.

The computational environment represents an example implementation of the various aspects or features of the disclosure in which the processing or execution of operations described in connection with the management of unknown callers in accordance with aspects disclosed herein can be performed in response to execution of one or more software components at the computing device . It should be appreciated that the one or more software components can render the computing device or any other computing device that contains such components a particular machine for the management of unknown callers in accordance with aspects described herein among other functional purposes. A software component can be embodied in or can comprise one or more computer accessible instructions e.g. computer readable and or computer executable instructions. In one scenario at least a portion of the computer accessible instructions can embody and or can be executed to perform at least a part of one or more of the example methods described herein such as the example method presented in . For instance to embody one such method at least the portion of the computer accessible instructions can be retained e.g. stored made available or stored and made available in a computer storage non transitory medium and executed by a processor. The one or more computer accessible instructions that embody a software component can be assembled into one or more program modules for example that can be compiled linked and or executed at the computing device or other computing devices. Generally such program modules comprise computer code routines programs objects components information structures e.g. data structures and or metadata structures etc. that can perform particular tasks e.g. one or more operations in response to execution by one or more processors which can be integrated into the computing device or functionally coupled thereto.

The various example embodiments of the disclosure can be operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that can be suitable for implementation of various aspects or features of the disclosure in connection with the management of unknown callers in accordance with aspects described herein can comprise personal computers server computers laptop devices handheld computing devices such as mobile tablets or e readers wearable computing devices and multiprocessor systems. Additional examples can include set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network personal computers PCs minicomputers mainframe computers blade computers programmable logic controllers distributed computing environments that comprise any of the above systems or devices and the like.

As illustrated the computing device can comprise one or more processors one or more input output I O interfaces a memory and a bus architecture also termed bus that functionally couples various functional elements of the computing device . In certain embodiments the computing device can include optionally a radio unit . The radio unit can include one or more antennas and a communication processing unit that can permit wireless communication between the computing device and another device such as one of the computing device s . The bus can include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and can permit the exchange of information data metadata and or signaling between the processor s the I O interface s and or the memory or respective functional elements therein. In certain scenarios the bus in conjunction with one or more internal programming interfaces also referred to as interface s can permit such exchange of information. In scenarios in which the processor s include multiple processors the computing device can utilize parallel computing.

The I O interface s can permit communication of information between the computing device and an external device such as another computing device e.g. a network element or an end user device. Such communication can include direct communication or indirect communication such as the exchange of information between the computing device and the external device via a network or elements thereof. As illustrated the I O interface s can comprise one or more of network adapter s peripheral adapter s and display unit s . Such adapter s can permit or facilitate connectivity between the external device and one or more of the processor s or the memory . For example the peripheral adapter s can include a group of ports which can include at least one of parallel ports serial ports Ethernet ports V.35 ports or X.21 ports. In certain embodiments the parallel ports can comprise General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB IEEE 1284 while the serial ports can include Recommended Standard RS 232 V.11 Universal Serial Bus USB FireWire or IEEE 1394.

In one aspect at least one of the network adapter s can functionally couple the computing device to one or more computing devices via one or more traffic and signaling pipes that can permit or facilitate the exchange of traffic and signaling between the computing device and the one or more computing devices . Such network coupling provided at least in part by the at least one of the network adapter s can be implemented in a wired environment a wireless environment or both. The information that is communicated by the at least one of the network adapter s can result from the implementation of one or more operations of a method in accordance with aspects of this disclosure. Such output can be any form of visual representation including but not limited to textual graphical animation audio tactile and the like. In certain scenarios each of the computing device s can have substantially the same architecture as the computing device . In addition or in the alternative the display unit s can include functional elements e.g. lights such as light emitting diodes a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor or an electrochromic monitor combinations thereof or the like that can permit control of the operation of the computing device or can permit conveying or revealing the operational conditions of the computing device .

In one aspect the bus represents one or more of several possible types of bus structures including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. As an illustration such architectures can comprise an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express bus a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA bus a Universal Serial Bus USB and the like. The bus and all buses described herein can be implemented over a wired or wireless network connection and each of the subsystems including the processor s the memory and memory elements therein and the I O interface s can be contained within one or more remote computing devices at physically separate locations connected through buses of this form in effect implementing a fully distributed system. In certain embodiments such a distributed system can implement the functionality described herein in a client host or client server configuration in which the call response control component s or the call response control information or both can be distributed between the computing device and at least one of the computing device s and the computing device and at least one of the computing device s can execute such components and or leverage such information. It should be appreciated that in an embodiment in which the computing device embodies or constitutes a communication device e.g. communication device the call response control component s can be different from those in an embodiment in which the computing device embodies or constitutes a caller analysis server e.g. server in accordance with aspects of this disclosure. Specifically as an example in an embodiment in which the computing device embodies the call analysis server the call response control component s and or the call response control information can configure the computing device or at least one of the processor s to provide the functionality of the call analysis server according to aspects described herein.

The computing device can comprise a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media transitory and non transitory that can be accessed by a computing device. In one aspect computer readable media can comprise computer non transitory storage media or computer readable non transitory storage media and communications media. Example computer readable non transitory storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computing device and can comprise for example both volatile and non volatile media and removable and or non removable media. In one aspect the memory can comprise computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM .

The memory can comprise functionality instructions storage and functionality information storage . The functionality instructions storage can comprise computer accessible instructions that in response to execution by at least one of the processor s can implement one or more of the functionalities of the disclosure. The computer accessible instructions can embody or can comprise one or more software components illustrated as call response control component s . In one scenario execution of at least one component of the call response control component s can implement one or more of the methods described herein such as the example methods and . For instance such execution can cause a processor e.g. one of the processor s that executes the at least one component to carry out a disclosed example method. It should be appreciated that in one aspect a processor of the processor s that executes at least one of the call response control component s can retrieve information from or retain information in one or more memory elements in the functionality information storage in order to operate in accordance with the functionality programmed or otherwise configured by the call response control component s . The one or more memory elements may be referred to as call response control information . Such information can include at least one of code instructions information structures or the like. For instance at least a portion of such information structures can be indicative or otherwise representative of communication addresses caller information response rules and the like in accordance with aspects described herein.

In certain embodiments one or more of the call response control component s can embody or can constitute the call response controller and or at least a portion of the communication unit and can provide the functionality of such unit s in accordance with aspects of this disclosure. In other embodiments one or more of the call response control component s in combination with at least one of the processor s can embody or can constitute one or more of the call response controller or at least a portion of the communication unit and can provide the functionality of such unit s in accordance with aspects of this disclosure. In scenarios in which the computing device can embody a caller analysis server e.g. caller analysis server and one or more of the call response control component s provide the functionality of the caller analysis server in accordance with aspects of this disclosure.

At least one of the one or more interfaces e.g. application programming interface s can permit or facilitate communication of information between two or more components within the functionality instructions storage . The information that is communicated by the at least one interface can result from implementation of one or more operations in a method of the disclosure. In certain embodiments one or more of the functionality instructions storage and the functionality information storage can be embodied in or can comprise removable non removable and or volatile non volatile computer storage media.

At least a portion of at least one of the call response control component s or the call response control information can program or otherwise configure one or more of the processors to operate at least in accordance with the functionality described herein. One or more of the processor s can execute at least one of the call response control component s and leverage at least a portion of the information in the functionality information storage in order to provide management of calls from unknown callers in accordance with one or more aspects described herein.

It should be appreciated that in certain scenarios the functionality instructions storage can embody or can comprise a computer readable non transitory storage medium having computer accessible instructions that in response to execution cause at least one processor e.g. one or more of the processor s to perform a group of operations comprising the operations or blocks described in connection with the disclosed methods.

In addition the memory can comprise computer accessible instructions and information e.g. data metadata and or programming code instructions that permit or facilitate the operation and or administration e.g. upgrades software installation any other configuration or the like of the computing device . Accordingly as illustrated the memory can comprise a memory element labeled operating system OS instruction s that contains one or more program modules that embody or include one or more operating systems such as Windows operating system Unix Linux Symbian Android Chromium and substantially any OS suitable for mobile computing devices or tethered computing devices. In one aspect the operational and or architectural complexity of the computing device can dictate a suitable OS. The memory also comprises a system information storage having data metadata and or programming code that permits or facilitates the operation and or administration of the computing device . Elements of the OS instruction s and the system information storage can be accessible or can be operated on by at least one of the processor s .

It should be recognized that while the functionality instructions storage and other executable program components such as the OS instruction s are illustrated herein as discrete blocks such software components can reside at various times in different memory components of the computing device and can be executed by at least one of the processor s . In certain scenarios an implementation of the call response control component s can be retained on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media.

The computing device and or one of the computing device s can include a power supply not shown which can power up components or functional elements within such devices. The power supply can be a rechargeable power supply e.g. a rechargeable battery and it can include one or more transformers to achieve a power level suitable for the operation of the computing device and or one of the computing device s and components functional elements and related circuitry therein. In certain scenarios the power supply can be attached to a conventional power grid to recharge and ensure that such devices can be operational. In one aspect the power supply can include an I O interface e.g. one of the network adapter s to connect operationally to the conventional power grid. In another aspect the power supply can include an energy conversion component such as a solar panel to provide additional or alternative power resources or autonomy for the computing device and or one of the computing device s .

The computing device can operate in a networked environment by utilizing connections to one or more remote computing devices . As an illustration a remote computing device can be a personal computer a portable computer a server a router a network computer a peer device or other common network node and so on. As described herein connections physical and or logical between the computing device and a computing device of the one or more remote computing devices can be made via one or more traffic and signaling pipes which can comprise wired link s and or wireless link s and several network elements such as routers or switches concentrators servers and the like that form a LAN a MAN a WAN and or other networks wireless or wired having different footprints. Such networking environments are conventional and commonplace in dwellings offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets local area networks and wide area networks.

In one or more embodiments one or more of the disclosed methods can be practiced in distributed computing environments such as grid based environments where tasks can be performed by remote processing devices computing device s that are functionally coupled e.g. communicatively linked or otherwise coupled through a network having traffic and signaling pipes and related network elements. In a distributed computing environment in one aspect one or more software components such as program modules can be located in both a local computing device and at least one remote computing device.

In view of the aspects described herein example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosure can be better appreciated with reference for example to the flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation the example method disclosed herein is presented and described as a series of blocks with each block representing an action or an operation in a method for example . However it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed method is not limited by the order of blocks and associated actions or operations as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from those that are shown and described herein. For example the various methods or processes or techniques in accordance with this disclosure can be alternatively represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Furthermore not all illustrated blocks and associated action s may be required to implement a method in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods or processes can be implemented in combination with each other to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

It should be appreciated that the methods in accordance with this disclosure can be retained on an article of manufacture or computer readable medium to permit or facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to a computing device such as a two way communication device such as a mobile smartphone or a voice over IP tethered telephone a blade computer a programmable logic controller and the like for execution and thus implementation by a processor of the computing device or for storage in a memory thereof or functionally coupled thereto. In one aspect one or more processors such as processor s that implement e.g. execute one or more of the disclosed methods can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory or any computer or machine readable medium to implement one or more of the disclosed methods. The code instructions can provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to implement the methods described herein.

At block a call can be received at the communication device from a caller platform having a communication address. Receiving the call can include receiving a request to initiate a connection or call session between the communication device and the caller platform. As such the connection or call session is associated with the communication address. The request to initiate the connection or call session can be associated with numerous types of call sessions either voice calls or data calls that may be established or otherwise performed at least in part via the communication device. The types of call sessions can include for example calls implemented using a cellular radio telecommunication protocol such as voice calls over cellular telecommunication networks calls implemented using VoIP protocols and videotelephony calls implemented using suitable protocols for call initiation and media stream communication e.g. transmission and or reception . As described herein the communication address of the caller platform can be embodied in or can include a telephone number a subscriber number an IMSI an ESN an IP address a SIP address a MAC address or the like. The communication address can be included in the request to initiate the call session. It should be appreciated that while the subject example method is illustrated with reference to a communication platform the disclosure is not limited in that respect and any type of caller device having a communication address can be contemplated in the subject example method.

At block the communication device can transmit or otherwise communicate the communication address to a remote computing device e.g. the caller analysis server as described herein . At block the communication device can receive caller information associated with the communication address from the remote computing device. As described herein the caller information can characterize the caller platform identifying various aspects of the identity and or operation of the caller platform.

At block the communication device can perform a specific action in response to the call according to at least a portion of the caller information. In one implementation performing the specific action can include accepting the call or a request to initiate a call from the unknown caller system and receiving audio input signal from the unknown caller system. Accepting the request can include for example generating challenge response information sending to the unknown caller system an audio output signal indicative of a challenge in the challenge response information receiving from the unknown caller system audio input signal indicative of a response to the challenge and validating the response at the communication device.

In addition or in other implementations as part of block the communication device can display a first selectable indicia representative of an option to terminate the call and to send a report to the remote computing device that the unknown caller system is associated with a specific entity. Further or in yet other implementations the communication device can display a second selectable indicia representative of an option to record at least a portion of the audio input signal.

In addition or in other implementations performing the specific action at block can include receiving by the communication device a selection of the second selectable indicia and recording at least the portion of the audio input signal. In addition or in yet other implementations performing the specific action can include determining from at least the portion of the audio input signal that the connection is related to an acceptable business activity and sending at least the portion of the audio input signal to the remote computing device. In one aspect the acceptable business activity can include one of a qualified business activity or a business activity having a likelihood of being acceptable that exceeds a threshold. In other implementation performing the specific action can include determining from at least the portion of the audio input signal that the connection is related to a scam and sending at least the portion of the audio input signal to a second remote computing device. Further or in yet other implementations performing the specific action can include generating from the audio input signal an audio segment that lacks identifying information of an end user of the communication device and sending the audio segment to the remote computing device.

Performing the specific action at block also can include for example terminating a call between the unknown caller system and the communication device and displaying actionable indicia comprising one or more fillable fields to input information representative of the connection. In addition or as another example performing the specific action at block can include displaying selectable indicia representative of an option to report a communication address in a historical record of calls of the communication device.

At block a call can be received at the communication device from a caller platform having a communication address. Receiving the call can include receiving a request to initiate a call session between the communication device and the caller platform. The request to initiate the call session or otherwise connect can be associated with numerous types of call sessions either voice calls or data calls that may be established or otherwise performed at least in part via the communication device. The types of call sessions can include for example calls implemented using a cellular radio telecommunication protocol such as voice calls over cellular telecommunication networks calls implemented using VoIP protocols and videotelephony calls implemented using suitable protocols for call initiation and media stream communication e.g. transmission and or reception . As described herein the communication address of the caller platform can be embodied in or can include a telephone number a subscriber number an IMSI an ESN an IP address a SIP address a MAC address or the like. The communication address can be included in the request to initiate the call session. It should be appreciated that while the subject example method is illustrated with reference to a communication platform the disclosure is not limited in that respect and any type of caller device having a communication address can be contemplated in the subject example method.

At block the communication device can access caller information and or device activity information. As described herein the communication device can access at least a portion of the caller information and or at least a portion of the device activity information from one or more memory devices integrated into the communication device or functionally coupled thereto. As described herein in connection with caller info. for example the caller information can include information that can characterize multiple communication addresses e.g. telephone numbers IP address URLs or other types of URI or the like . At block the communication device can determine caller information associated with the communication address. To that end in certain embodiments the communication device can analyze the accessed caller information and or the accessed device activity. More specifically in one example the communication device can select or otherwise determine a portion of the caller information that includes the communication address and can aggregate the portion of the caller information in order to determine for example volume of calls and or frequency of calls associated with the communication address. In addition or as another example the communication device can determine if the calls initiated by the caller platform are automated or non automated. The communication device can carry out other types of analysis in order to generate or otherwise determine the caller information associated with the communication address. As described herein the caller information associated with the communication address can characterize the caller platform identifying various aspects of the identity and or operation of the caller platform. At block the communication device can perform a specific action in response to the call according to at least a portion of the caller information associated with the communication address. The communication device can implement block in substantially the same manner in which block is implemented.

At block the computing device can query a repository for content containing or otherwise being associated with a communication address of the one or more communication addresses. The repository can be embodied in or can include any centralized or distributed platform e.g. shared memory devices in a server cluster or other types of storage devices that can retain information e.g. data and or metadata . In one example the repository can be embodied in or can include a distributed database relational or unstructured . In another example the repository can be embodied in or can include storage devices forming a network such as the Internet or other WAN a LAN a MAN a HAN and or a PAN. As such files documents databases hyperlinks combinations thereof or the like can be queried for content containing the communication address.

At block the computing device that implements the subject example method can analyze one or more of i at least a portion of the content accessed or otherwise received in response to the query at block or ii at least a portion of the report information. At block the computing device can generate caller information e.g. at least a portion of the caller info. in accordance with aspects described herein in connection with the caller analysis server and the caller info. .

Various embodiments of the disclosure may take the form of an entirely or partially hardware embodiment an entirely or partially software embodiment or a combination of software and hardware e.g. a firmware embodiment . Furthermore as described herein various embodiments of the disclosure e.g. methods and systems may take the form of a computer program product comprising a computer readable non transitory storage medium having computer accessible instructions e.g. computer readable and or computer executable instructions such as computer software encoded or otherwise embodied in such storage medium. Those instructions can be read or otherwise accessed and executed by one or more processors to perform or permit the performance of the operations described herein. The instructions can be provided in any suitable form such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code assembler code combinations of the foregoing and the like. Any suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium may be utilized to form the computer program product. For instance the computer readable medium may include any tangible non transitory medium for storing information in a form readable or otherwise accessible by one or more computers or processor s functionally coupled thereto. Non transitory storage media can include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory etc.

Embodiments of the operational environments and methods or techniques are described herein with reference to block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods systems apparatuses and computer program products. It can be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be implemented by computer accessible instructions. In certain implementations the computer accessible instructions may be loaded or otherwise incorporated into a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable information processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the operations or functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks can be implemented in response to execution at the computer or processing apparatus.

Unless otherwise expressly stated it is in no way intended that any protocol procedure process or method set forth herein be construed as requiring that its acts or steps be performed in a specific order. Accordingly where a process or a method claim does not actually recite an order to be followed by its acts or steps or it is not otherwise specifically recited in the claims or descriptions of the subject disclosure that the steps are to be limited to a specific order it is in no way intended that an order be inferred in any respect. This holds for any possible non express basis for interpretation including matters of logic with respect to the arrangement of steps or operational flow plain meaning derived from grammatical organization or punctuation the number or type of embodiments described in the specification or annexed drawings or the like.

As used in this application the terms component environment system architecture interface unit module pipe and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities. Such entities may be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable portion of software a thread of execution a program and or a computing device. For example both a software application executing on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution. A component may be localized on one computing device or distributed between two or more computing devices. As described herein a component can execute from various computer readable non transitory media having various data structures stored thereon. Components can communicate via local and or remote processes in accordance for example with a signal either analogic or digital having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as a wide area network with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry that is controlled by a software application or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts and the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In certain embodiments components can communicate via local and or remote processes in accordance for example with a signal either analog or digital having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as a wide area network with other systems via the signal . In other embodiments components can communicate or otherwise be coupled via thermal mechanical electrical and or electromechanical coupling mechanisms such as conduits connectors combinations thereof or the like . An interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processors applications and or other programming components. The terms component environment system architecture interface unit module and pipe can be utilized interchangeably and can be referred to collectively as functional elements.

As utilized in this disclosure the term processor can refer to any computing processing unit or device comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit IC an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A processor can be implemented as a combination of computing processing units. In certain embodiments processors can utilize nanoscale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance the performance of user equipment or other electronic equipment.

In addition in the present specification and annexed drawings terms such as store storage data store data storage memory repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to the operation and functionality of a component of the disclosure refer to memory components entities embodied in a memory or components forming the memory. It can be appreciated that the memory components or memories described herein embody or comprise non transitory computer storage media that can be readable or otherwise accessible by a computing device. Such media can be implemented in any methods or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions information structures program modules or other information objects. The memory components or memories can be either volatile memory or non volatile memory or can include both volatile and non volatile memory. In addition the memory components or memories can be removable or non removable and or internal or external to a computing device or component. Examples of various types of non transitory storage media can include hard disc drives zip drives CD ROMs digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory cards or other types of memory cards cartridges or any other non transitory medium suitable to retain the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

As an illustration non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The disclosed memory components or memories of the operational or computational environments described herein are intended to include one or more of these and or any other suitable types of memory.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain implementations could include while other implementations do not include certain features elements and or operations. Thus such conditional language generally is not intended to imply that features elements and or operations are in any way required for one or more implementations or that one or more implementations necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or operations are included or are to be performed in any particular implementation.

What has been described herein in the present specification and annexed drawings includes examples of systems devices and techniques that can provide responses from a communication device to a call from an unknown source such as telemarketers. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of elements and or methods for purposes of describing the various features of the disclosure but it can be recognized that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed features are possible. Accordingly it may be apparent that various modifications can be made to the disclosure without departing from the scope or spirit thereof. In addition or in the alternative other embodiments of the disclosure may be apparent from consideration of the specification and annexed drawings and practice of the disclosure as presented herein. It is intended that the examples put forward in the specification and annexed drawings be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

