---

title: Enclosure power distribution architectures
abstract: Computational enclosures may be designed to distribute power from power supplies to load units (e.g., processors, storage devices, or network routers). The architecture may affect the efficiency, cost, modularity, accessibility, and space utilization of the components within the enclosure. Presented herein are power distribution architectures involving a distribution board oriented along a first (e.g., vertical) axis within the enclosure, comprising a power interconnect configured to distribute power among a set of load boards oriented along a second (e.g., lateral) axis and respectively connecting with a set of load units oriented along a third (e.g., sagittal) axis, and a set of power supplies also oriented along the third axis. This orientation may compactly and proximately position the loads near the power supplies in the distribution system, and result in a comparatively low local current that enables the use of printed circuit boards for the distribution board and load boards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09257818&OS=09257818&RS=09257818
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09257818
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140811
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 530 466 filed Jun. 22 2012 and also entitled Enclosure Power Distribution Architectures the entirety of which is incorporated by reference as if fully rewritten herein.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a computational architecture comprising an enclosure configured to provide power from one or more power supplies connected to a power source to a set of load units that apply a load to the provided power such as computational processors storage or network routing. As a first example a rack server may comprise a set of racks each sized to hold a computational unit such as a cased or caseless mainboard including a processor memory a power supply and one or more storage devices network adapters and other expansion cards. The mainboard may include a power supply having a power inlet usually positioned toward the back of the unit that may be attached to a power outlet of the rack via a power cable and a network port that may be attached to a network port of the rack using a network cable. As a second example a blade server may comprise a set of slots wherein a structural unit may comprise a set of parallel slots respectively configured to receive a computational unit of a blade form factor e.g. a thin substantially planar array of computational components . The enclosure may therefore store a horizontal or vertical stack of blades each having an array of components such as a processor memory a storage device and a power supply and may provide other services such as power and network access through cable attachments to various ports and outlets provided in the enclosure.

In these and other examples the enclosure involves a distribution of power from the power supplies to the load units. A basic enclosure may simply connect each load unit with a dedicated power supply but this architecture may cause any load unit to fail if the power supply fails or if the power connection through the power supply is disconnected or otherwise interrupted. Other enclosures may distribute the power provided by two or more power supplies to the load units e.g. by including a distribution grid that enables any power supply to be connected to any load unit or a bus bar that provides a store of power from several power supplies to a set of load units. Some such enclosures may include a reserve power supply that may be automatically or by user selection connected with a load unit in place of a failed power supply thus achieving N 1 resilience of the power supplies within the enclosure.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

While many enclosure architectures may connect power supplies with load units some such architectures may present advantages or disadvantages with respect to other enclosures. As a first example it may be desirable to enable distribution of power from a set of power supplies to a set of load units in order to provide fault tolerance in the event of a failure or disconnection of one or more power supplies. As a second example it may be desirable to modularize the power distribution and the load units such that some or all of the load units may be removed without altering the positions of the power supplies and power distribution components and new load units may be inserted into the architecture to connect with the power components with little or no manual manipulation of connectors by a user. Conversely it may be desirable to provide access and detachability to the power distribution system for maintenance without altering the positions of the load units. As a third example it may be desirable to economize the connections among the power distribution components and load units such as by reducing or eliminating cabling. As a fourth example it may be desirable to position the connectors of the distribution system such that the load units and the power supplies when connected are efficiently positioned within the enclosure. As a fifth example it may be desirable to position load units at a comparatively short and uniform distance from power supplies in order to stabilize voltage reduce maximum local current through the power distribution system and balance power phases among the power supplies and load units. As a sixth example it may be desirable to modularize power distribution among different groups of power supplies and load units and also the expansion of distribution among such groups through an interconnection. As a seventh example it may be desirable to configure the power distribution system in such a manner that connected load units are exposed to directed airflow within the enclosure in order to provide temperature and climate regulation.

Presented herein are architectures that may present some of these advantages. In accordance with these architectures an enclosure may comprise a distribution board having a distribution board surface comprising a set of power connectors connectible with respective power supplies a set of load board connectors connectible with respective load boards and a power interconnection that interconnects the power connectors and load board connectors to enable power distribution. The distribution board surface may be oriented along a first axis within the enclosure e.g. a vertical axis and may position the load connectors such that connected load boards are oriented within the enclosure along a second axis that is orthogonal with the first axis e.g. a lateral axis . Additionally the power connectors may be positioned on the distribution board surface such that power supplies connected with the power connectors are oriented along a third axis within the enclosure that is orthogonal with the first axis and the second axis e.g. a sagittal axis and the load boards may comprise load unit connectors positioned such that connected load units are also oriented along the third axis within the enclosure.

This organization of the power distribution may enable compact modular and accessible storage of the power supplies and load units. The distribution of power through load boards each connecting one or more load units may further extend the modularity of the load units stored within the enclosure. Additionally because proximity of the power supplies to the load units may stabilize the voltage and or reduce the local current and load through the interconnection the distribution board and load boards may be designed as a printed circuit board PCB instead of bus bars designed to convey higher loads thus enabling high power distribution and loads while economizing the costs and resources of the distribution system. These and other advantages may be achievable through the design of the power distribution system of an enclosure according to the architectures presented herein.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a plurality of computational units stored together in an enclosure such as a rack or cabinet. As a first example the computational units may comprise a set of independently operable computers configured to intercommunicate to achieve a task in a cooperative manner such as a server farm or a peer to peer processing network. As a second example the computational units may comprise processors and or storage arrays that are coordinated by a coordinating module such as in a symmetric multiprocessor SMP model. As a third example the computational components may autonomously process data but may share resources such as input output components such as a rack server comprising a set of mainboards and a switch configured to enable user interaction with a single mainboard. In these scenarios the enclosure may comprise a set of resources to provide various functionality e.g. power supplies that supply power to the computational units climate components e.g. fans heatsinks air conditioners heaters humidifiers and dehumidifiers that regulate the temperature humidity and or airflow of the components communication components such as wired and or wireless network adapters and network switches user input components such as keyboards mice microphones and cameras user output components such as displays speakers and printers and physical protection such as enclosures and physical locks. In various scenarios each computational unit may have a dedicated resource e.g. each computer may have a separate enclosure and dedicated input output devices or a resource may be shared among two or more computational units e.g. in a rack server each computational unit may have a dedicated processor and volatile storage and may provide a pool of nonvolatile storage such as a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID unit that is shared by all of the units for nonvolatile storage . Additionally the degree of integration of the computational units may vary in different server scenarios from complete independence e.g. units that provide independent functions and that seldom intercommunicate or are even isolated from each other units that operate independently but intercommunicate to achieve a particular task or units that are incapable of independent operation without direction from a management module .

In particular the rack illustrated in the exemplary scenario of enables respective computers to be connected to the power source via a dedicated power supply . Although simple this architecture may present significant disadvantages. As a first exemplary disadvantage this exemplary scenario may exhibit poor resiliency in the event of a failure of a power supply such as a blown fuse short circuit or physical disconnection from the computer or the power outlet . Any such failure of any one power supply may cause the connected computer to fail. However respective power supplies may be unutilized or underutilized by the connected computer . Such failures may therefore be reduced by sharing power provided by the power supplies to the computers in order to alleviate the failure of one or more power supplies . This sharing may be achieved through many configurations which may involve altering the architecture of the rack to incorporate power distribution resources. Additionally such architectures may be selected in view of other advantages such as economy of resources high flexibility and low complexity of distribution the stability consistency and economy of provided power e.g. providing consistent current and phasing convenience in coupling the computers and power supplies with the enclosure and modularity to enable access to or removal of some components without manipulating other components.

Presented herein are architectures for multi unit enclosures that may present some advantages in comparison with the exemplary scenarios in . In accordance with these techniques an enclosure may comprise a distribution board featuring a power interconnect that connects a set of load board connectors and a set of power supply connectors. Respective power supply connectors may be connected with a power supply while respective load board connectors may be connected with a load board which in turn may be connected with one or more load units. Additionally the techniques presented herein relate to the positions and orientations of the power distribution components. The distribution board may comprise a distribution board surface oriented along a first axis of the enclosure e.g. a vertical or top to bottom axis with the load board connectors and power connectors distributed on the surface along the first axis. Respective load board connectors may be oriented along a second axis e.g. a lateral or left to right axis that is substantially orthogonal with the first axis and that may connect with a load board oriented along the second axis e.g. inserted from the front of the enclosure to connect with the distribution board. The load units may connect with respective load boards along a third axis e.g. a sagittal or front to back axis that is substantially orthogonal with the first axis and the second axis. Similarly respective power supply connectors may be oriented along the third access and may connect with a power supply that is also oriented along the third axis e.g. inserted from the back of the enclosure to connect with the distribution board. Such configurations may present several advantages in terms of resource and space efficiency accessibility and consistency.

In this exemplary scenario of the enclosure stores a set of load units e.g. computational units storage devices or network routers that are to be connected with at least one power supply connected with a power source . In order to achieve this interconnection the enclosure comprises a distribution board featuring load board connector and a power supply connector interconnected by a power interconnect . The load board connector may couple the distribution board with respective loads by connecting with a distribution board connector on a load board which in turn comprises two load unit connectors respectively connecting with a load connector of a load unit . In particular if the view of this enclosure is understood to be a cross section along a first axis e.g. a top down view it may be appreciated that the load board is oriented along a second axis e.g. a laterally oriented load board and that the load units when connected with the load board are oriented along a third axis e.g. a front to back orientation of the load units . Additionally the power supply connector connects with a power supply that is also oriented along the third axis e.g. a front to back orientation of the power supply . This architecture thus enabling a conductivity path of power from the power source via the outlet to the power cable of the power supply the power supply connector of the distribution board the power interconnect the load board connector the distribution board connector of the load board the load unit connectors and finally with the load connectors of the load units .

The enclosure illustrated in thus exhibits an architecture selected according to the techniques presented herein for the distribution of power among a set of power supplies and load units . In particular this architecture presents several features that may confer advantages on this architecture as compared with other architectures including those illustrated in the exemplary scenarios of . As a first example by decouping the load units from dedicated power supplies this architecture enables fault tolerance for respective power supplies e.g. a failure of one or even two power supplies may be compensated by the connection of other underutilized or unutilized power supplies to the power interconnect thereby providing N 1 or higher levels of resiliency. As a second example the exemplary architecture presents a stack of load units along the first axis and a separate stack of power supplies along the first axis . Moreover by orienting the load units and power supplies along the same third axis but in opposite directions this architecture may enable access to the load units and load boards from the front of the enclosure without obstruction from the power supplies and may enable access to the power supplies from the back of the enclosure without obstruction from the load units and load boards . This configuration thereby presents convenient accessibility to selected power distribution components without manual manipulation of other power distribution components. As a third example the power supplies are connected with the distribution board not using power cables and connector plugs but using physical connectors which may reduce the expense space consumption management and other inefficiencies of cabling. Similarly the load boards connect with the load units and the distribution board using physical connectors rather than cabling. As a fourth example the orthogonal orientation of the load boards and the power supplies may enable close proximity and a comparatively short power path between each power supply and a load unit . This proximity may conserve the efficiency of the supplied power. Moreover respective load units may primarily draw power from the closest power supply thereby reducing the local current through any portion of the power interconnect . As a result rather than incorporating a high current conductor such as a bus bar the distribution board and or load boards may be designed as a medium current conductor such as a printed circuit board PCB utilizing less conductive material and ordinary fabrication processes rather than specialized and comparatively expensive conductive material. These and other advantages may be achievable through the selected architecture of the enclosure according to the techniques presented herein.

The power distribution architectures presented herein may be implemented with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other architectures and implementations. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the scenarios wherein such techniques may be utilized.

As a first variation of this first aspect the tray and enclosure architectures may implement many types of load units such as file servers webservers database servers and distributive processing servers. Additionally the load units may be configured with varying types and degrees of interoperability e.g. a mutually isolated set of load units an intercommunicating set of independent load units interacting in a peer to peer or server client model and a tightly coupled set of load units such as a symmetric multiprocessing SMP server . The computational resources representing respective load units may be directly connected to the load boards or may be included in a container such as a tray a board or a case. Moreover respective load boards may be configured to support one load unit several load units of the same or different types or any variation thereof.

As a second variation of this first aspect the architecture of an enclosure may be provided as an integrated unit or as different components provided by one or more vendors. For example a vendor may provide a distribution board configured for mounting in an enclosure to interconnect power supplies and load boards further connected to one or more load units where the distribution board comprises a distribution board surface to be oriented along a first axis of the enclosure . The distribution board surface may thus comprise at least two power connectors respectively connectible with a power supply to be oriented along a second axis of the enclosure at least one load board connector respectively connectible with a load board oriented along a third axis of the enclosure and a power interconnect interconnecting the power supply connectors and the load board connectors . The same vendor or another vendor may provide one or more load boards configured to interconnect one or more load units with power supplies through a distribution board oriented along a first axis within an enclosure where the load board comprises a load board surface oriented along a third axis of the enclosure and comprises at least one load unit connector respectively connectible with a load unit oriented along a second axis within the enclosure and at least one distribution board connector that is connectible with a load board connector of the distribution board . The same or another vendor may also distribute the enclosure configured to store the power distribution components the load units and or the power supplies . Alternatively the enclosure distribution board and load boards may be provided together for use with load units and power supplies . These and other architectural scenarios may be compatible with the techniques presented herein.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the design of the distribution board and or load boards .

As a first variation of this second aspect the distribution board and or load boards may be designed using many types of power distribution technologies and materials. In particular the orthogonal orientation of the power distribution components presented herein may enable the design these components as printed circuit boards PCBs due to the comparatively short power path between the load units and the power supplies and the resulting low local current through respective portions of the power interconnect and load boards . However other designs such as cabling or bus bars may alternatively or additionally be utilized as the components of the power distribution techniques presented herein.

As a second variation of this second aspect the connectors connecting respective components including the load board connectors the distribution board connectors the load unit connectors the load connectors the power supply connectors and the power connectors may incorporate many types shapes materials and or features. As a first such example the connectors may comprise physical connectors integrated with a printed circuit board or other solid state unit as depicted in . Alternatively or additionally such connectors may terminate a cable attached to a component which may enable greater flexibility in the orientations of the components. As a second such example the connectors may couple according to various mechanisms such as interlocking physical parts or magnetic coupling. As a third such example the connectors may be coupled through manual manipulation or may automatically couple such as blind mate connectors that are configured to couple automatically even if a user is unable to visualize or reach the connectors.

As a third variation of this second aspect the orientations of the components with respect to one another and with the enclosure may vary among embodiments. As a first such example the axes may be devised as illustrated in wherein the first axis comprises a vertical axis the second axis comprises a lateral axis and the third axis comprises a sagittal axis or according to other orientations of the axes. Additionally the axes may be precisely orthogonal or only substantially orthogonal. As a second such example the orientations of respective components may match or differ from the orientations of the connectors therebetween. For example as illustrated in the exemplary scenario of the load board is oriented along the second axis and the distribution board connectors and the load board connectors are also oriented along the second axis e.g. facing laterally and coplanar and are coupled in this orientation. However load connectors of the load units are oriented along the third axis e.g. facing the back of the enclosure and are not coplanar with the load boards . The load unit connectors on the load board are therefore positioned as elbow connectors that first protrude along the first axis e.g. rising vertically and bend in the direction of the third axis in order to couple with the load connectors of the load units .

As a fourth variation of this second aspect the power interconnect may utilize many power routing techniques. For example the power interconnect may simply interconnect all of the power supply connectors and all of the load board connectors may selectably interconnect a selected subset of such connectors or may provide selective one to one routing between power supply connectors and load board connectors . Additionally the power routing of the distribution board may be fixed may be adjustable by a user or may be automatically adjusted according to a power routing logic e.g. upon detecting a failure of a power supply automatically re routing power from a reserve power supply . These and other variations in the architectures of the boards and connectors may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the architecture of the enclosure storing the power distribution components.

As a first variation of this third aspect the distribution board may be positioned in many locations within the enclosure . As a first such example the distribution board may be positioned along a corner edge of the enclosure to accommodate the orthogonal orientations of the load boards and the power supplies . Alternatively the distribution board may be positioned at a middle edge or in a center are of the enclosure e.g. in order to partition the enclosure into a first region e.g. a front half for the load units and a second region e.g. a back half for the power supplies .

As a second variation of this third aspect respective power distribution components may be designed for mounting within the enclosure . As a first such example the enclosure may comprise an enclosure mounting component and the distribution board may comprise a distribution board mounting component that is configured to couple with the enclosure mounting component to mount the distribution board within the enclosure . Alternatively or additionally respective load boards may comprise a load board mounting component that is configured to couple with an enclosure mounting component of the enclosure to mount the load board within the enclosure . Additional mounting components may be provided for the load units and or power supplies . Moreover the distribution board and or load boards may be configured to detach from an enclosure mounting component such that a user may choose to remove any of the distribution board power supplies and or load boards without having to remove load units or other components within the enclosure . These components may be detachable individually or together e.g. several power supplies and the distribution board may be mounted to a detachable side wall which may be removed from the back of the enclosure to access and service the power distribution system without repositioning the load boards or load units or vice versa . Additionally the enclosure may comprise at least one power supply guide that is configured to upon insertion of a power supply into the enclosure guide the power supply to connect with a power supply connector of the distribution board e.g. rails mounted on the side walls of the enclosure that guide power supplies into a mount position and or one load unit guides configured to upon insertion of a load unit into the enclosure guide the load unit to connect with a load unit connector of a load board .

As a third variation of this third aspect the orientations of the distribution board the power supplies and the load units within the enclosure may vary and many such variations may be compatible with the techniques presented herein.

As a fourth variation of this third aspect and as further depicted in the exemplary scenario of the enclosure may separate the load units and or power supplies into two or more subsets each subset connected to a different distribution board within the enclosure . This separation may enable compartmentalization of power distribution e.g. failures of multiple power supplies attached to a first distribution board that result in failures of the attached load units may not affect the power supplies and load units attached to a second distribution board within the same enclosure . Moreover the power interconnects of the distribution boards within the same enclosure or different enclosures may be connectible in order to provide configurable grouping and power distribution. For example and as further depicted in the exemplary scenario of respective power distribution boards may comprise a distribution board interconnect that is connectible e.g. via a cable or a distribution interconnect board with the distribution board interconnect of a second distribution board to interconnect the power interconnects of the first distribution board and the second distribution board .

As a fifth variation of this third aspect the components of the power distribution system may integrate and or interact with other components of the enclosure . As a first such example the distribution board load board connectors load boards load connectors power supply connectors and or power interconnect may integrate communication channels for power monitoring and or management communications such as an Advanced Configuration and Power Interface ACPI signal. As a second such example the power distribution system may be oriented with respect to climate regulation components within the enclosure . For example in the exemplary scenario of the distribution board may serve as a wall of a plenum directing airflow toward the load units . The power supplies may be positioned within or as part of the plenum e.g. one or more power supplies may include fans or other climate regulating components that may be integrated with the plenum of the enclosure or may be positioned outside of the plenum e.g. to expel the heat generated by the power supplies . Alternatively or additionally respective load units may comprise a load unit surface e.g. a board or tray bottom supporting the computational units and respective load boards may be oriented to be coplanar with the load board surfaces of the load boards e.g. laying flat in order to reduce obstruction of airflow directed at the load units by climate regulating components of the enclosure . These and other variations may be incorporated into power distribution systems and enclosures in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

In some embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may include one or more additional storage components including but not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state storage device and or other removable or non removable magnetic or optical media. In one embodiment computer readable and processor executable instructions implementing one or more embodiments provided herein are stored in the storage component . The storage component may also store other data objects such as components of an operating system executable binaries comprising one or more applications programming libraries e.g. application programming interfaces APIs media objects and documentation. The computer readable instructions may be loaded in the memory component for execution by the processor .

The computing device may also include one or more communication components that allows the computing device to communicate with other devices. The one or more communication components may comprise e.g. a modem a Network Interface Card NIC a radiofrequency transmitter receiver an infrared port and a universal serial bus USB USB connection. Such communication components may comprise a wired connection connecting to a network through a physical cord cable or wire or a wireless connection communicating wirelessly with a networking device such as through visible light infrared or one or more radiofrequencies.

The computing device may include one or more input components such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras or video input devices and or one or more output components such as one or more displays speakers and printers. The input components and or output components may be connected to the computing device via a wired connection a wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input component or an output component from another computing device may be used as input components and or output components for the computing device .

The components of the computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 794 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of the computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example the memory component may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. The computing device may access the computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively the computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at the computing device and some at computing device .

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

