---

title: Bionic cochlea
abstract: A bionic cochlea includes a fluid filled vessel having a flexible window disposed in one of its walls. The flexible window flexes when exposed to an acoustic pulse to produce an acoustic pressure pulse in the fluid inside the vessel. A plurality of piezoelectric nanowires is disposed within the fluid filled vessel. The piezoelectric nanowires vibrate in response to acoustic pressure pulses transmitting through the fluid and produce electrical signals. Electrical wires in communication with the piezoelectric nanowires receive the produced electrical signals and pass these signals to the mammalian auditory nerve.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511224&OS=09511224&RS=09511224
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09511224
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141104
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties.

The most widely used prosthetic hearing device for deaf persons is the Cochlear implant CI . The CI is an electronic device that uses conventional electronics and microphones to generate electrical signals that are fed into the damaged cochlea. The CI uses a stimulator implanted under the skin in combination with a battery powered microphone and processing electronics located outside the body. The two are attached together by a magnet. Sound waves detected by the external CI system are converted into electrical signals transmitted across the skin to the inner stimulator. The inner stimulator feeds electric signals inside the cochlea. Cochlear implants provide limited hearing to patients. The quality of sound is significantly different from a normal cochlea with less sound information being received and processed by the brain. Cochlear implants differ from hearing aids because they feed electrical signals to the auditory nerve inside the cochlea rather than amplifying sound and feeding the amplified sound to the ear drum.

In general acoustics sensors use some type of transducer or microphone to sense acoustic energy e.g. voice music and vibrations. Air and contact e.g. bone conduction microphone elements utilize piezoelectric materials such as ceramic disk or polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF films. In a ceramic disk microphone the ceramic disk is generally round and is glued to a thin metal substrate such as brass. The center of the disc is positive while the brass substrate is negative. In a PVDF film microphone the PVDF film is either mounted to a metal plastic or polymer substrate or is stretched over the open end of a cylinder so the film can vibrate freely.

Air microphones do not work well in high noise environments as they pick up ambient noise along with any acoustic signals of interest. Bone conduction microphones are used in communication systems for the transmission of speech. When a person speaks the cranial bones vibrate in accordance with the sounds that are produced by the vocal cords. Bone conduction microphones detect vibrations in the cranial bones and convert these vibrations to electrical signals that are fed into a two way radio. Bone conduction microphones are very useful in high noise environments but must firmly press against the bones in the skull in order to consistently detect vibrations. Over time a bone conduction microphone becomes uncomfortable because of the constant pressure on a person s head.

Therefore an acoustic sensor is desired that can be used as a bionic cochlea and that overcomes the poor sound quality of a CI and that avoids the problems with current air and contact microphones.

Exemplary embodiments in accordance with the present invention are directed to a bionic cochlea that replaces an existing human organic cochlea that is damaged due to trauma disease or birth defect among other causes. The cochlea is the organ in the mammalian ear that converts sound energy into electrical energy. These electrical signals are fed to the brain through the auditory nerve. The bionic cochlea is inserted inside the skull overcoming the performance issues associated with existing CI devices and eliminating infections that may occur with existing cochlear implants.

The organic cochlea includes cilia attached to the composite membrane to convert acoustic waves into electrical signals that feed into the auditory nerve. Exemplary embodiments of bionic cochlea in accordance with the present invention use piezoelectric nanowires attached to a composite basilar membrane to convert sound waves into electrical signals that feed into the auditory nerve. The piezoelectric nanowires convert acoustic pulses into electrical energy and are constructed from piezoelectric materials. Suitable piezoelectric materials include but are not limited to zinc oxide ZnO Polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF any other suitable organic or inorganic piezoelectric nanomaterial and combinations thereof. Preferably the piezoelectric materials are PVDF and ZnO as these nano fibers have proven successful in harvesting energy from mechanical vibrations. Since the nanowires generate electrical energy when they are stimulated the bionic cochlea does not require an external power source such as batteries.

In the mammalian auditory system the structure of the ear is divided into three parts the outer ear or pinna the middle ear and the inner ear. The outer ear structure is responsible in part for helping locate sounds. In addition this structure helps to funnel and focus sound waves to the middle ear. The middle ear contains the auditory canal which terminates in the eardrum or tympanic membrane. Attached to the opposite side of the eardrum from the auditory canal in a small air space are three tiny bones or ossicles called the malleus incus and stapes or hammer anvil and stirrup . These bones are attached to a fluid filled spiral structure called the cochlea. The stirrup is attached to a point on the cochlea called the oval window. The eardrum and ossicles transfer sound waves to the cochlea. As the ossicles vibrate they transfer sound energy to the cochlea. The cochlea includes three tapered tubes which circle around like the scroll on a violin. The basilar membrane is located inside a central fluid filled tube called the scala media. The perception of sound takes place on the basilar membrane. The scala media is situated between two other fluid filled tubes called the scala vestibuli and scala tympani which are joined at the tapered end of the cochlea.

The acoustic vibrations transmitted to the cochlea via the ossicles enter the cochlea via the oval window. The resulting pressure pulses travel down the scala vestibuli and scala tympani. As the pressure pulses travel inside the scala vestibuli and scala tympani the pressure pulses are transferred to the scala media tube. In particular the pressure pulse starts at the stirrup and travels down the scala vestibuli. This pulse causes the flexing of the Reissner s membrane that separates the scala vestibuli from the scala media. As the Reissner s membrane flexes the tectorial membrane moves. The tectorial membrane rests on inner and outer hair cells attached to the organ of Corti. The inner hair cells produce electric energy as they move. The pressure pulse continues traveling inside the scale vestibuli into the scala tympani. The basilar membrane separates the scala tympani from the scala media. The pressure pulses in the scale tympani produce a flexing of the basilar membrane that causes the tectorial membrane to flex again thereby stimulating the inner hairs again.

The basilar membrane is a tapered structure. The narrow end closest to the oval window is rigid and resonates at frequencies up to 25 KHz in human beings. At the distal end of the cochlea the basilar membrane is wider and softer with a resonant frequency of 10 Hz. The basilar membrane is organized into octave bands. This is known as tonotopic organization and allows humans to better perceive and locate sound sources. The distance between acoustic pitch follows the same logarithmic distance as the perception of pitch. This is due to the fact that the octave bands on the basilar membrane are equidistant.

In the description which follows any reference to either direction or orientation is intended primarily and solely for purposes of illustration and is not intended in any way as a limitation on the scope of the present invention. Also the particular embodiments described herein although being preferred are not to be considered as limiting of the present invention.

Referring initially to an exemplary embodiment of a bionic cochlea in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The bionic cochlea includes a fluid filled vessel replicating the organic cochlea. The fluid filled vessel includes a plurality of walls defining a shape that accommodates insertion and placement inside a mammalian skull adjacent the ossicles or organic cochlea. Preferably the fluid filled vessel is a cylindrical tube having a circular cross section. The walls include the elongated cylinder having a length and two circular ends .

The fluid filled vessel can be filled with one or more of several fluids know in the art that are 1 biocompatible 2 sterile and 3 preferably have viscosities less than or equal to the viscosity of water because higher viscosity fluids will hinder the propagation of sound waves e.g. acoustic pressure pulses within the fluid.

The bionic cochlea includes a flexible window disposed in one of the walls of the fluid filled vessel . When the fluid filled vessel is a cylindrical tube the flexible window is disposed in one of the circular ends. The flexible window flexes when exposed to an acoustic pulse to produce an acoustic pressure pulse in fluid located within the fluid filled vessel. Preferably the flexible window is an oval window that easily flexes when an acoustic pulse impacts its surface. Suitable materials for the walls of the fluid filled vessel and the small thin flexible window include but are not limited to biocompatible materials such as the silicone elastomer used to make breast implants or carbon fiber such as carbon nanotubes. If the fluid filled vessel is made from a flexible biocompatible polymer the flexible window could be made of the same material but have less thickness that would allow it to flex locally more than the walls of the fluid filled vessel. Alternatively if the fluid filled vessel is made of a solid less flexible or nonflexible material then the flexible window would preferably comprise a thin flexible biocompatible material as discussed above.

When the fluid filled vessel is inserted into the inner ear of the mammal the oval window is placed in communication or contact with the ossicles of the mammalian ear. In one embodiment the oval window is in contact with the stapes . The stapes is disconnected from the oval window of the organic cochlea and mechanically fixed to the oval window of the bionic cochlea. Suitable methods for attachment include but are not limited to a biocompatible adhesive such as used by barnacles to attach to ship hulls. When sound waves impact the biological ear drum causing the ossicles to move the stapes flexes the oval window of the bionic cochlea. This mechanical motion produces pressure waves that propagate through the fluid disposed inside the fluid filled vessel.

The bionic cochlea includes a plurality of piezoelectric nanowires disposed within the fluid filled vessel. The plurality of piezoelectric nanowires acts like the cilia attached to the organ of Corti inside the bionic cochlea and vibrate in response to at least one predetermined wavelength in the acoustic pressure pulse transmitting through the fluid. This vibration produces an electrical signal.

In one embodiment each piezoelectric nanowire is a submicroscopic structure on the order of billionths of a meter in diameter. In addition to a nanowire the base structure can be a nanotube or a nanobelt. The piezoelectric attributes of each nanowire are achieved by constructing each nanowire from piezoelectric materials or by making each nanowire of non piezoelectric materials that have been doped with piezoelectric materials.

Suitable piezoelectric materials include but are not limited to natural crystals such as berlinite sucrose quartz rochelle salt topaz tourmaline group minerals and zinc oxide manmade crystals such as gallium orthophosphate and langasite manmade ceramics such as barium titanate lead titanate lead zirconate titanate PZT zirconate titanate potassium niobate lithium niobate lithium tantalate sodium tungstate and boron nitride piezoceramics such as sodium potassium niobate bismuth ferrite and sodium niobate polymers such as polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF and polydimethylsiloxane PDMS and combinations thereof.

One end of each piezoelectric nanowire is fixed and the opposite end is unattached i.e. is free to move. In general the length of each nanowire is tuned to vibrate when impinged by oscillating acoustic energy of interest. More specifically this length is defined by the wavelength of a fundamental frequency of interest or one of the multiple harmonics or sub harmonics thereof. In this way the piezoelectric nanowire vibrates when subjected to acoustic energy having a wavelength that matches the predefined tuned length of the nanowire.

Vibrating piezoelectric nanowires generate electricity. Therefore the bionic cochlea includes at least one electrical wire or electrical chase in communication with the plurality of piezoelectric nanowires to receive the electrical signals produced by the nanowires. Referring to in one embodiment the piezoelectric nanowires extend in from the walls of the fluid filled vessel. When the vessel is a cylindrical tube the piezoelectric nanowires extend in from the interior surface of the elongated cylinder portion along the length of the cylindrical tube. A plurality of wires or wire traces run along the inside surface of the elongated cylinder and a given group or set of the piezoelectric nanowires is in communication with or extends from each wire.

Referring to each wire can be spaced from the other wires or the wires can be arranged in parallel bands running along the length of the fluid filled vessel or cylindrical tube. Each electrical wire passes through the walls of the fluid filled vessel and is in communication with a mammalian auditory nerve.

In one embodiment the electrical wires are attached to the interior surfaces of the walls of the fluid filled cylinder wall. Electrical traces are attached to the cylinder wall prior to depositing the nanowires. The traces carry electrical signals from the piezoelectric nanowires to the auditory nerve. As the pressure pulses travel through the fluid inside of the fluid filled vessel these pressure pulses stimulate the piezoelectric nanowires along the walls of the fluid filled cylinder producing electrical signals. In one embodiment these signals are fed via the electrical wire traces to a nanopiezotronic semiconductor device. The output of the nanopiezotronic semiconductor device is attached to and in communication with the auditory nerves inside the organic cochlea inside the mammalian skull. Suitable materials and methods for making these connections are known and available in the art.

The nanopiezotronic i.e. piezoelectric semiconductor devices regulate the sound levels fed to the auditory nerve using an electrical bias provided to the semiconductor from the piezoelectric nanowires. The amplitude of the electrical signal levels fed into the auditory nerve are tunable so the sound perceived by the mammal is at a comfortable level. In one embodiment the number of nanowires within the fluid filled vessel is adjusted to achieve the tunable amplitude. In another embodiment a plurality of nanopiezotronic devices i.e. piezoelectric semiconductor devices is used. One nanopiezotronic semiconductor device is used for each electrical wire. These devices act as acoustic limiters controlling the output levels from the piezoelectric nanowires and are powered by the same acoustic pulses stimulating the nanowires on the resonant membrane. The nanopiezotronic devices are mounted to the wire traces on the resonant membrane. The electrical signals from each group of piezoelectric nanowires associated with a given electrical wire are fed into the associated piezotronic junction gate field effect transistor JFET . The JFET output is fed to the auditory nerve.

Returning to in the wall of the fluid filled vessel or at the distal circular end of the cylindrical tube is a small thin round window . This window flexes as each pulse travels inside the fluid filled vessel. The round window relieves pressure inside the fluid filled vessel preventing pressure spikes inside the fluid filled vessel as each pulse moves inside the fluid filled vessel. Pressure spikes can stimulate the piezoelectric nanowires to produce a false sound sensation. Round window can be made of a similar material as the oval window which would allow it to flex relative to the walls of the fluid filled vessel .

Exemplary embodiments of the bionic cochlea in accordance with the present invention are sensitive to oscillating energy over a range of frequencies. Accordingly bionic cochlea in accordance with the present invention will utilize piezoelectric nanostructures having different lengths for sensitivity to oscillating energy over the frequency range of interest. The different length nanostructures can be provided on a single surface substrate or layer. However multiple substrate layers may also be used.

In one embodiment the plurality of piezoelectric nanowires attached to and extending from the interior surfaces of the walls of the fluid filled vessel is divided into a plurality of distinct octave bands . In one embodiment these octave bands include a 25 KHZ band located adjacent the oval window and a 10 Hz band disposed adjacent the round window . In one embodiment the octave bands are centered at 25 KHz 16 KHz 8 KHz 4 KHz 2 KHz 1 KHz 500 Hz 250 Hz 125 Hz 63 Hz 31 Hz and 16 Hz. In one embodiment the octave bands are positioned equidistant from each other as in an organic cochlea to create tonotopic organization that assists with sound location. The output from each octave band is fed into the electrical wires attached to the interior surface of the vessel wall. In one embodiment these electrical wires feed into the nanopiezotronic semiconductors. Electrical wires carrying the output from the semiconductors are fed through the walls of the fluid filled vessel to the auditory nerve for example inside the organic cochlea.

In one embodiment the piezoelectric nanowires are arranged in a linear fashion along the length of the vessel wall or cylindrical tube beginning with 25 KHz near the oval window and ending at 10 Hz near the round window. This arrangement does not divide the piezoelectric nanowires into octave bands. In one embodiment at least about 32 000 piezoelectric nanowires are distributed along the length of the fluid filled vessel. Each piezoelectric nanowire has a distinct length. The shorter nanowires resonate at high frequencies and the longer nanowires resonate at lower frequencies. This produces a linear distribution of nanowires along the length of the fluid filled vessel. Signals from the piezoelectric nanowires are collected on the electrical wires fed into nanopiezotronic semiconductors and then communicated to the auditory nerve.

Referring to in another exemplary embodiment the present invention is directed to a bionic cochlea including a fluid filled vessel arranged to be located behind the mastoid bone. The fluid filled vessel includes a plurality of walls defining a shape that accommodates insertion and placement inside a mammalian skull adjacent the ossicles or organic cochlea. Preferably the fluid filled vessel is a cylindrical tube having a circular cross section. The walls include the elongated cylinder having a length and two circular ends .

The bionic cochlea includes an open window disposed in one of the walls of the fluid filled vessel. Preferably the window is an oval window. Suitable materials for the walls of the fluid filled vessel include but are not limited to biocompatible materials such as the silicone elastomer used to make breast implants or carbon fiber such as carbon nanotubes.

In order to accommodate insertion behind the mastoid bone the bionic cochlea includes a flexible fluid filled tube in fluid connection with the fluid filled vessel. The flexible fluid filled tube has a first end attached to the window and a second end opposite the first end. The second end includes a thin diaphragm not shown that flexes when exposed to an acoustic pulse to produce an acoustic pressure pulse in the fluid inside the flexible fluid filled tube and the fluid filled vessel. Suitable materials for the flexible fluid filled tube and the thin diaphragm include but are not limited to biocompatible materials such as the silicone elastomer used to make breast implants or carbon fiber such as carbon nanotubes.

Fluid flows freely inside the thin wall flexible tube and there is no diaphragm between the thin wall flexible tube and the fluid filled vessel i.e. fluid can freely move between them. This allows pressure pulses to flow into the larger fluid filled vessel.

When the fluid filled vessel is inserted into the inner ear of the mammal the diaphragm on one second end of the fluid filled flexible tube is placed in communication or contact with the ossicles of the mammalian ear for example between the incus and the stapes. In one embodiment the diaphragm is in contact with the stapes . The stapes is disconnected from the oval window of the organic cochlea and mechanically fixed to the oval window of the bionic cochlea. Suitable methods for attachment include but are not limited to a biocompatible adhesive such as used by barnacles to attach to ship hulls. When sound waves impact the biological ear drum causing the ossicles to move the stapes flexes the diaphragm. This mechanical motion produces pressure waves that propagate through the fluid disposed inside the fluid filled flexible tube and vessel.

In one embodiment the flexible fluid filled tube includes a rigid cylinder extending in from the second end partially along a length of the flexible fluid filled tube. The rigid cylinder has a fixed bend comprising an angle of from about 30 degrees to about 90 degrees.

The bionic cochlea includes a plurality of piezoelectric nanowires disposed within the fluid filled vessel. The plurality of piezoelectric nanowires acts like the cilia attached to the organ of Corti inside the bionic cochlea and vibrate in response to at least one predetermined wavelength in the acoustic pressure pulse transmitting through the fluid. This vibration produces an electrical signal.

In one embodiment each piezoelectric nanowire is a submicroscopic structure on the order of billionths of a meter in diameter. In addition to a nanowire the base structure can be a nanotube or a nanobelt. The piezoelectric attributes of each nanowire are achieved by constructing each nanowire from piezoelectric materials or by making each nanowire of non piezoelectric materials that have been doped with piezoelectric materials.

Suitable piezoelectric materials include but are not limited to natural crystals such as berlinite sucrose quartz rochelle salt topaz tourmaline group minerals and zinc oxide manmade crystals such as gallium orthophosphate and langasite manmade ceramics such as barium titanate lead titanate lead zirconate titanate PZT zirconate titanate potassium niobate lithium niobate lithium tantalate sodium tungstate and boron nitride piezoceramics such as sodium potassium niobate bismuth ferrite and sodium niobate polymers such as polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF and polydimethylsiloxane PDMS and combinations thereof.

One end of each piezoelectric nanowire is fixed and the opposite end is unattached i.e. is free to move. In general the length of each nanowire is tuned to vibrate when impinged by oscillating acoustic energy of interest. More specifically this length is defined by the wavelength of a fundamental frequency of interest or one of the multiple harmonics or sub harmonics thereof. In this way the piezoelectric nanowire vibrates when subjected to acoustic energy having a wavelength that matches the predefined tuned length of the nanowire.

In the walls of the fluid filled vessel or at the distal circular end of the cylindrical tube is a small thin round window . This window flexes as each pulse travels inside the fluid filled vessel. The round window relieves pressure inside the fluid filled vessel preventing pressure spikes inside the fluid filled vessel as each pulse moves inside the fluid filled vessel. Pressure spikes can stimulate the piezoelectric nanowires to produce a false sound sensation. If the fluid filled vessel is made from a flexible biocompatible polymer the round window could be made of the same material but have less thickness that would allow it to flex locally more than the walls of the fluid filled vessel. Alternatively if the fluid filled vessel is made of a solid less flexible or nonflexible material then the round window would preferably comprise a thin flexible biocompatible material as discussed above.

Exemplary embodiments of the bionic cochlea in accordance with the present invention are sensitive to oscillating energy over a range of frequencies. Accordingly bionic cochlea in accordance with the present invention will utilize piezoelectric nanostructures having different lengths for sensitivity to oscillating energy over the frequency range of interest. The different length nanostructures can be provided on a single surface substrate or layer. However multiple substrate layers are also used.

In one embodiment the plurality of piezoelectric nanowires attached to and extending from the interior surfaces of the walls of the fluid filled vessel is divided into a plurality of distinct octave bands . In one embodiment these octave bands include a 25 KHz band located adjacent the oval window and a 10 Hz band located the round window . In one embodiment the octave bands are centered at 25 KHz 16 KHz 8 KHz 4 KHz 2 KHz 1 KHz 500 Hz 250 Hz 125 Hz 63 Hz 31 Hz and 16 Hz. In one embodiment the octave bands are positioned equidistant from each other as in an organic cochlea to create tonotopic organization that assists with sound location. The output from each octave band is fed into the electrical wires attached to the interior surface of the vessel wall. In one embodiment these electrical wires feed into nanopiezotronic semiconductors. Electrical wires carrying the output from the semiconductors are fed through the walls of the fluid filled vessel to the auditory nerve for example inside the organic cochlea.

In one embodiment the piezoelectric nanowires are arranged in a linear fashion along the length of the vessel wall or cylindrical tube beginning with 25 KHz near the oval window and ending at 10 Hz near the round window. This arrangement does not divide the piezoelectric nanowires into octave bands. In one embodiment at least about 32 000 piezoelectric nanowires are distributed along the length of the fluid filled vessel. Each piezoelectric nanowire has a distinct length. The shorter nanowires resonate at high frequencies and the longer nanowires resonate at lower frequencies. This produces a linear distribution of nanowires along the length of the fluid filled vessel. Signals from the piezoelectric nanowires are collected on the electrical wires fed into nanopiezotronic semiconductors and then communicated to the auditory nerve.

Referring to another exemplary embodiment of a bionic cochlea in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The bionic cochlea includes a fluid filled vessel replicating the organic cochlea. The fluid filled vessel includes a plurality of walls defining a shape that accommodates insertion and placement inside a mammalian skull adjacent the ossicles or organic cochlea. Preferably the fluid filled vessel is a cylindrical tube having a circular cross section. The walls include the elongated cylinder having a length and two circular ends .

The bionic cochlea includes a flexible window disposed in one of the walls of the fluid filled vessel . When the fluid filled vessel is a cylindrical tube the flexible window is disposed in one of the circular ends. The flexible window flexes when exposed to an acoustic pulse to produce an acoustic pressure pulse in the fluid located within the fluid filled vessel. Preferably the flexible window is an oval window that easily flexes when an acoustic pulse impacts its surface. Suitable materials for the walls of the fluid filled vessel and the small thin flexible window include but are not limited to biocompatible materials such as the silicone elastomer used to make breast implants or carbon fiber such as carbon nanotubes. If the fluid filled vessel is made from a flexible biocompatible polymer the flexible window could be made of the same material but have less thickness that would allow it to flex locally more than the walls of the fluid filled vessel. Alternatively if the fluid filled vessel is made of a solid less flexible or nonflexible material then the flexible window would preferably comprise a thin flexible biocompatible material as discussed above.

A flexible composite membrane replicating the organic basilar membrane is disposed within the fluid filled vessel. Suitable materials for the flexible membrane include but are not limited to biocompatible materials such as a biocompatible silicone. In one embodiment the flexible membrane is positioned in the middle of the fluid filled vessel running from the flexible window to the thin round window . This round window flexes as each pulse travels inside the fluid filled vessel. The round window relieves pressure inside the fluid filled vessel preventing pressure spikes inside the fluid filled vessel as each pulse moves inside the fluid filled vessel. Pressure spikes can stimulate the piezoelectric nanowires to produce a false sound sensation. Round window can be made of a similar material as window which would allow it to flex relative to the walls of the fluid filled vessel .

The bionic cochlea includes a plurality of piezoelectric nanowires disposed within the fluid filled vessel and extend from at least one side of the flexible membrane. These piezoelectric nanowires act like the cilia inside the organic cochlea.

In one embodiment the flexible membrane and piezoelectric nanowires are divided into a plurality of octave bands starting with 25 KHz near the oval window and ending with the 10 Hz band near the round window . In one embodiment the octave bands are centered at the following frequencies 25 KHz 16 KHz 8 KHz 4 KHz 2 KHz 1 KHz 500 Hz 250 Hz 125 Hz 63 Hz 31 Hz 16 Hz. The octave bands are preferably positioned equidistant from each other like the bionic cochlea creating tonotopic organization that assists with sound location.

The bionic cochlea includes at least one and preferably a plurality of electrical wires in communication with the plurality of piezoelectric nanowires running along the flexible membrane to receive the produced electrical signals. The wires pass through the walls of the fluid filled vessel to be connected to the mammalian auditory nerve. Referring to in one embodiment the electrical wires are arranged as a plurality of wire traces disposed on a side of the flexible membrane opposite the plurality of piezoelectric nanowires. In one embodiment a single wire trace is provided for each one of the plurality of distinct octave bands and the single wire trace is in communication with all of the piezoelectric nanowires in that octave band. Each wire trace is in contact with the wire lead that is fed through the end of the fluid filled vessel into a wire bundle that is attached to the mammalian auditory nerve for example inside the organic cochlea.

In one embodiment the bionic cochlea includes a plurality of piezoelectric semiconductor devices . One nanopiezotronic semiconductor device is used for each electrical wire trace. As described above these devices act as acoustic limiters controlling the output levels from the piezoelectric nanowires and are powered by the same acoustic pulses stimulating the nanowires on the resonant membrane.

In another embodiment the flexible membrane includes a linear arrangement of tuned piezoelectric nanowires. These piezoelectric nanowires are attached to the composite membrane and are cut to resonant at octave and or third octave bands. The resonant frequencies begin with 25 KHz near the oval window and end at 10 Hz near the round window. This arrangement differs from the first arrangement because the wires are not divided into octave bands. Over 32 000 different resonant nanowires are distributed along the oscillating membrane. The shorter wires resonate at high frequencies and the longer wires resonate at lower frequencies. This allows a linear distribution of nanowires along the length of the flexible composite membrane. In one embodiment electrical signals from the nanowires are collected on the electrical wires in separate bands attached to the back of each composite membrane for example as illustrated in . These signals feed into nanopiezotronic semiconductor devices and the output from the nanopiezotronic semiconductor devices feed into the auditory nerve.

In another embodiment the piezoelectric nanowires are either divided into octave bands or arranged as continuous piezoelectric nanowires. Referring to the flexible membrane is very flexible and the bionic cochlea includes a semi rigid membrane resting on top of the piezoelectric nanowires attached to the flexible membrane. Therefore the piezoelectric nanowires are located between the flexible membrane and the semi rigid membrane . To support the semi rigid membrane a flexible support member extends from the semi rigid membrane to a wall of the fluid filled vessel .

As an acoustic pulse enters into the fluid filled vessel via the oval window the pressure pulse travels into the fluid filled cylinder and the flexible membrane flexes upward. The upward movement presses the nanowires into the semi rigid membrane causing the nanowires to flex and producing an electrical signal. The electrical signals flow along the electrical wires to the nanopiezotronic semiconductor devices.

Either a single or a plurality of semi rigid membranes can be used. For example a single semi rigid membrane can be provided over each octave band of piezoelectric nanowires. For a continuous linear arrangement of piezoelectric nanowires multiple semi rigid membranes are positioned over the nanowires attached to the flexible membrane along the length of the fluid filled vessel.

Referring to in another embodiment the bionic cochlea includes a fluid filled vessel located behind the mastoid bone. This is facilitated by a thin flexible fluid filled tube attached on a first end to the open oval window of the larger fluid filled vessel and on a second end is in communication with the ossicles that move in response to pulses from the eardrum . For example the second end is attached to the stapes or is sandwiched between the incus and stapes as shown in . Fluid flows freely inside the thin flexible tube allowing acoustic pulses to travel through the thin flexible fluid filled tube into the larger fluid filled vessel. Acoustic pulses are generated when sound waves strike the ear drum .

The plurality of piezoelectric nanowires are attached to both the first and second sides of the flexible membrane running from the oval window to the thin flexible window . The pressure pulses traveling into the fluid filled cylinder cause the piezoelectric nanowires to flex generating electrical energy. The electrical signals travel along the electrical wires to the mammalian auditory nerve and may be routed through one or more nanopiezotronic semiconductor devices prior to traveling to the auditory nerve. Any piezoelectric nanowire configuration described above including the division into a plurality of octave bands can be used in this design. Also flexible window is made of a suitable material as described above for the windows in the other embodiments that would allow it to flex in response to acoustic pulses inside fluid filled tube .

There is no diaphragm between the thin wall tube and the large fluid filled cylinder . This allows pressure pulses to flow freely into the large fluid filled cylinder. In one embodiment to facilitate the transfer of pressure pulses from the stapes to the large fluid filled cylinder a small rigid cylinder bent at an angle of 30 to 90 degrees is attached to the and of the thin fluid filled tube near the stapes . The end of the bent cylinder near the stapes or between the stapes and incus is covered with a thin flexible biocompatible silicone elastomer diaphragm not shown . In one embodiment the stapes is attached to the diaphragm using a biocompatible adhesive. As the ossicles and stapes vibrate the diaphragm flexes producing acoustic pulses inside the fluid filled cylinder.

Hearing damage occurs when the cilia inside the organic cochlea are damaged either from mechanical trauma drugs or birth defect. To resolve this problem the cilia can be replaced using the piezoelectric nanowires in accordance with the present invention. In one embodiment the flexible membrane with the plurality of piezoelectric nanowires and electric wires is inserted into the organic cochlea. The piezoelectric nanowires act as the cilia and the organic cochlea is the fluid filled vessel. Any one of the oscillating membranes covered with nanowires described above can be inserted into the existing organic cochlea. The electrical output from the nanowires are attached to the auditory nerve and nanopiezoelectric JFETS are applied to the output of the nanowires just like they are in the fluid filled vessel embodiments described above. Once the membrane is inserted into the organic cochlea the organic cochlea is closed. Hearing should be restored to a point where it equals or exceeds the original hearing.

These arrangements are superior to existing cochlear implants because the piezoelectric nanowire cochlea arrangement eliminates the need for batteries or complex electrical circuits. In addition the resulting bionic cochlea is completely implanted into the skull of a mammal restoring hearing back to what was obtained using a standard organic cochlea. The frequency of the cochlea can be extended below 10 Hz and above 25 KHz.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

