---

title: Automatic camera selection based on device orientation
abstract: At least two camera lenses on a mobile may be provided. The camera lenses may be configured to face the same or substantially the same direction, at least one of the two camera lenses positioned along one edge of the mobile device and at least another one of the two camera lenses positioned along another edge. Automatic selection of a camera lens among said at least two camera lenses for activation may be enabled based on detecting the current orientation of the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363426&OS=09363426&RS=09363426
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09363426
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140529
---
The present application relates generally to mobile devices such as mobile phones and more particularly to automatic camera selection based on device orientation.

Devices such as mobile phones and tablets are equipped with a camera. However generally a device contains only a single camera on a single edge facing in a given direction. Hence the position of the lenses may be off center for one of the device orientations.

A method of providing an automatic camera selection based on device orientation in one aspect may comprise providing at least two camera lenses on a mobile device the two camera lenses configured to face the same or substantially the same direction at least one of the two camera lenses positioned along one edge of the mobile device and at least another one of the two camera lenses positioned along another edge of the mobile device. The method may also comprise enabling automatic selection of a camera lens among said at least two camera lenses for activation based on detecting a current orientation of the mobile device.

A mobile device in one aspect may comprise a processor and at least two camera lenses configured to face the same or substantially the same direction and positioned along one edge of the mobile device and at least another one of the two camera lenses positioned along another edge of the mobile device. The mobile device may also comprise an application programming interface operable to automatically select a camera lens among said at least two camera lenses for activation based on detecting a current orientation of the mobile device.

A computer readable storage medium storing a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform one or more methods described herein also may be provided.

Further features as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

Automatic camera selection based on device orientation is described. In one embodiment multiple camera lenses e.g. at least two camera lenses may be provided on a mobile device such as a mobile phone. One camera lens e.g. also referred to as a first camera lens only for purposes of referring to one of the camera lenses is positioned near the top and centered on one edge of the mobile device e.g. also referred to as a first edge only to refer to one of the edges of the mobile device . Another camera lens e.g. also referred to as a second camera lens only for purposes of referring to another camera lens is positioned near the top and centered on another edge of the mobile device also referred to as a second edge only for purposes of referring to another edge that is a different edge from the first edge. The first edge and the second edge may be adjacent edges of the mobile device. The first camera lens and the second camera lens face the same direction. Depending on the orientation of the mobile device the mobile device e.g. via an application or operating system running on the device selects between the two camera lenses e.g. used to capture video or a picture.

As mobile devices such as phones currently only have a single camera on a single edge facing a given direction the position of the lens will be off center for one of the phone orientations. Allowing at least two camera lenses to be configured or positioned on different edges and automatically selecting one camera lens to be activated based on the current orientation the mobile device e.g. how it is held or positioned may ensure that a photo or video captured by the mobile device is automatically centered on a target regardless of the change in the mobile device s orientation or in what position the mobile device is held.

The two camera lenses and both face the same or substantially the same direction for example they are both front facing camera lenses. One of the two camera lenses may be activated based on detecting the current orientation of the mobile device. For example responsive to detecting that the mobile device s orientation is portrait one of two camera lenses that is positioned along a shorter edge may be activated e.g. in the example shown the camera lens at may be activated. As another example responsive to detecting that the mobile device s orientation is landscape a camera lens that is positioned on a longer edge of the mobile device may be activated. In this example the camera lens at may be activated.

In one aspect the adjacent edges of the mobile device are perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to one another. For instance the edge at is perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to the edge at . In another aspect the camera lenses are positioned along two adjacent edges. For example as shown the edge at along which the camera lens is positioned is adjacent to the edge at along which the camera lens is positioned .

Yet in another aspect responsive to detecting that the mobile device is turned by at least a threshold amount e.g. 45 from the current orientation activation between camera lenses may be automatically switched. For instance the mobile device may be turned in clockwise or counterclockwise directions as shown or in other directions as to switch the orientation which could be a position in between portrait and landscape. Responsive to detecting a motion of the mobile device activation of the camera lens may be switched to the camera lens and vice verse depending on the current position of the mobile device.

Just as screens rotate depending on the orientation one of the two cameras is activated for capturing an image or video e.g. front facing in this example depending on the device orientation portrait or landscape . In this way the user does not have to worry about how the device is held when using applications involving capturing an image e.g. a person s face since the correct camera is activated independent of how the device is held.

At it is determined whether the device is positioned in portrait mode. For instance in a mobile device this may be done by the operating system of the mobile device which determines the orientation of the device e.g. based on sensor data. The operating system may make this type of data or the determined orientation available to a camera application or a methodology of the present disclosure for instance as a function call or orientation change event. So for example orientation changes may be reported to the camera application by the operating system. In another example a query function may be made available via which the camera application or an application or device implementing a methodology of the present disclosure can query the operating system for the device orientation data.

In response to determining that the device is positioned in portrait mode it is determined at whether a camera lens positioned on a shorter edge of the mobile device is active referred to as a short edge camera e.g. camera lens at in . If the short edge camera is not active at the short edge camera is activated and the other camera on the longer edge of the mobile device e.g. camera lens at may be deactivated if currently active.

In response to determining that the device is not positioned in portrait mode at it is determined at whether a camera lens positioned on a longer edge of the mobile device is active referred to as a long edge camera e.g. camera lens at . If the long edge camera is not active at the long edge camera is activated and the other camera on the shorter edge of the mobile device e.g. camera lens at may be deactivated if currently active.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the device s orientation may be continuously monitored activating the camera lens on the device s long edge when device is in landscape orientation or the camera lens on the short edge when the device is in portrait orientation.

In the embodiments shown in and the multiple cameras all face the same or the substantially the same direction e.g. they are shown as front facing for capturing images in front of the front side of the mobile device. In another embodiment the cameras may be all back facing for capturing images in the back of the device e.g. facing back side of the device.

At if the user facing camera is selected a camera lens that is located at physically highest point on the mobile device in its current position than the other camera lenses and most centrally located on the mobile device may be identified. At it is determined whether the identified camera lens is currently active. If the identified camera lens is already active the logic of the flow returns or end. If it is determined that the identified camera lens is not currently active the identified camera lens is activated at . This results in the picture or video being captured from a camera view that is as high and as central as possible relative to the position of the device itself. When the device is being used to capture a person s face this produces an image where the person appears to be looking more directly at the camera which is especially valuable in video communication.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a camera lens may be automatically identified that is positioned to capture a focal item or aspect of a picture most centrally e.g. center on the item being captured in a picture. An example may include taking a picture of a person s face. In this example a camera lens that is positioned to capture the person s face to be at the center of the entire image as much as possible may be identified for activation. This differs from the previous embodiment in that it is effective when the user s face is not vertical for example the person is lying down.

At it is determined whether there is a face e.g. a person s face in the image shown through a camera lens e.g. that is currently active . Any image recognition techniques may be employed to determine the type of image present. If no face is identified in the image the logic of the flow returns or ends. At if it is determined that there is a face in the image the camera lens from the set of cameras facing in the same direction that is located most directly above the face in the image or the largest face in the image may be identified e.g. if more than one face image is detected . For example this can be done by identifying parts of the face e.g. the eyes nose and mouth of the face. The top of the head is located by projecting a line through the nose and mouth between the eyes. The physical location on the device where this line meets the edge of the device is determined to be the best camera location. This is calculated by combining information from the device s gyroscope that tells the position and orientation of the device in space with the projected line information which also gives a line projected in space. The physical location of each camera on the device may be stored in advance allowing the nearest camera to be selected. At it is determined whether the identified camera lens is active. If the identified camera lens is already active the logic of the flow returns or end. If it is determined that the identified camera lens is not active at the identified camera lens is activated. Previously activated camera lens may be deactivated if any.

Examples of mobile devices may include but are not limited to cellular telephone smartphone laptops tablets and others. is a schematic diagram showing example components of a mobile device. An example mobile device may include one or more processors or processing units and one or more memory devices and or memory cards such as volatile memory e.g. Random Access Memory RAM memory devices and non volatile memory e.g. read only memory ROM memory devices and other storage devices one or more network adaptors or device drivers for communications and other components e.g. collectively shown at . Such mobile devices may also include an operating system that manages the mobile device hardware and services applications. In one aspect an application programming interface API may be provided that interfaces to the camera hardware or components for controlling e.g. switching active camera or camera lenses the one or more cameras as described above. For example the API may provide a function to automatically select a camera lens among a plurality of camera lenses for activation. In one embodiment the methodology of the present disclosure may utilize this function to activate the desired camera based on detecting the current orientation of the mobile device. In another embodiment this function may be utilized to activate the desired camera based on detecting the orientation of a face in the current camera image. In another aspect the methodology of the present disclosure may itself be packaged as a function within this API used by applications to access the automatic camera selection functionality. For instance the methodology may be embedded in a camera API.

In the present disclosure the terms camera and camera lenses are used interchangeably. For instance there may be a single camera processor connected to a set of lenses or there may be multiple cameras. Thus the methodology that selects a camera also applies to selecting a camera lens.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages a scripting language such as Perl VBS or similar languages and or functional languages such as Lisp and ML and logic oriented languages such as Prolog. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The computer program product may comprise all the respective features enabling the implementation of the methodology described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out the methods. Computer program software program program or software in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements if any in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a program software or computer instructions embodied in a computer or machine usable or readable medium which causes the computer or machine to perform the steps of the method when executed on the computer processor and or machine. A program storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform various functionalities and methods described in the present disclosure is also provided.

The embodiments described above are illustrative examples and it should not be construed that the present invention is limited to these particular embodiments. Thus various changes and modifications may be effected by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

