---

title: Backing up audio and video files across mobile devices of a user
abstract: Technology is disclosed for selectively backing up audio files and video files of a user in a distributed backup system. In the distributed backup system, the user can define various policies for storing different data files of the user at different devices of the user and/or at a server. For example, the user may define a policy for storing video files on a device having a bigger display and audio files on a device which the user uses more often than the other devices. When a backup is initiated on a particular device, the technology identifies target devices based on the defined policies, and transmits the audio and video files from the particular device to the corresponding target devices. The audio and video files are transmitted via the server or directly if the target devices are in proximity to the particular device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805790&OS=08805790&RS=08805790
owner: Nextbit Systems Inc.
number: 08805790
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140512
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 199 939 entitled UTILIZING USER DEVICES FOR BACKING UP AND RETRIEVING DATA IN A DISTRIBUTED BACKUP SYSTEM filed on Mar. 6 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 804 134 entitled OPERATING SYSTEM AND DEVICE INTEGRATED WITH CLOUD COMPUTING FUNCTIONALITIES filed on Mar. 21 2013 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Several of the disclosed embodiments relate to data backup and retrieval techniques and more particularly to backing up and retrieving data in a distributed backup system.

Portable devices such as mobile phones smartphones and tablet computers have become more common among individuals. A large amount of data may be stored on these devices which may be needed to be backed up. Cloud computing technology may permit a user to back up their data on a remote server. While useful remote type backups may not be reliable since the remote server can be a single point of failure. That is if the remote server is down the remote data may not be accessible by the user. Also retrieving the files from the remote server can consume more time e.g. if the network connecting the user and the remote server is congested if the available network bandwidth is low or if the remote server is busy serving other requests. If the connection between the remote server and the user device breaks the user may have to back up the file again this can be time consuming especially if the file is a large file. Often users may not backup their devices data due to the extra effort and time involved. Further privacy and security issues may arise with the sharing of data to and from third parties.

Technology is disclosed for backing up and or retrieving data in a distributed backup system the technology . In some embodiments data files of a user are stored across multiple computing devices of the user e.g. mobile computing devices such as a tablet a laptop or a smartphone and or at a server e.g. a cloud storage server in the distributed backup system. The user can define data backup policies for storing different data files at different computing devices. For example if the user has computing devices with different form factors the user may define a data backup policy for storing video files on a computing device that has a bigger display. In some embodiments a data backup application executing on the computing device and or the server can generate data backup policies based on the type of the computing devices of the user. The user can further customize the presented data backup policies or add new data backup policies.

The technology facilitates fast retrieval of data files from the distributed backup system by minimizing the response time in accessing the data files. In some embodiments the computing devices are used as an edge cache of the distributed backup system. In some embodiments edge caching refers to the use of caching servers to store content closer to end users. When a user requests to access a particular data file in the distributed backup system the distributed backup system determines whether any of the other computing devices of the user that is in proximity to the particular computing device from which the user is requesting has the particular data file. If another proximate computing device has the particular data file the particular data file is transmitted to the user from the proximate computing device instead of from the server thereby minimizing the response time in accessing the particular data file. The particular computing device can communicate with the proximate computing device using various direct communication techniques also referred to as short range wireless communication . A direct communication technique can include Wi Fi communication via a wireless access point and peer to peer P2P communication techniques e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi direct AirDrop Infrared near field communication NFC or digital living network alliance DLNA .

In some embodiments the distributed backup system tracks the access pattern of the data files by the user and updates the data backup policies accordingly. For example if the distributed backup system determines that a particular data file is accessed frequently using a particular computing device and often there are other computing devices in the proximity when the user accesses the particular data file the particular data file can be backed up to one of the proximate devices rather than the cloud storage server. The distributed backup system can optimize the backing up of data files by determining which data files are backed up to the cloud storage server and which data files are backed up to the computing devices based on the access pattern. The distributed backup system monitors user access of the data files to generate various access patterns that can be used to perform various such optimizations e.g. in terms of response time storage space utilization across computing devices or high availability of data files.

A cloud data interface can also be included to receive data from and send data to computing devices . The cloud data interface can include network communication hardware and network connection logic to receive the information from computing devices. The network can be a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or the Internet. The cloud data interface may include a queuing mechanism to organize data update received from or sent to the computing devices .

In some embodiments any communication between the computing devices is routed through the server . For example data related to computer applications or data files to be backed up in the distributed backup system can be exchanged between the computing devices through server . In some embodiments where the computing devices can communicate with each other directly using a P2P communication technique e.g. Bluetooth the server facilitates the computing devices to communicate directly for exchanging the data. In some embodiments the computing devices can communicate directly with each other without any coordination by the server . In some embodiments while the computing devices send receive the data directly the server may also obtain a copy of the data.

Although illustrates three computing devices and a person having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the technology disclosed herein can be applied to a single computing device or more than two computing devices connected to the server .

The computing devices include an operating system to manage the hardware resources of the computing devices and provide services for running computer applications e.g. mobile applications running on mobile devices . The operating system facilitates execution of the computer applications on the computing device . The computing devices include at least one local storage device to store the computer applications and user data. The computing device can be a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer an automobile computer a game console a smartphone a personal digital assistant or other computing devices capable of running computer applications as contemplated by a person having ordinary skill in the art. Some examples of the operating system include Android iOS Windows etc.

The computer applications stored in the computing devices can include applications for general productivity and information retrieval including email calendar contacts stock market and weather information. The computer applications can also include applications in other categories such as mobile games factory automation GPS and location based services banking order tracking ticket purchases or any other categories as contemplated by a person having ordinary skill in the art.

All or some of the network connections of the computing devices are through the server . The network connections can include Transmission Control Protocol TCP connections User Datagram Protocol UDP connections or other types of network connections based on other protocols. When there are multiple computer applications that need network connections to multiple remote servers the computing devices only needs to maintain one network connections with the server . The server will in turn maintain multiple connections with the remote servers on behalf of the computer applications .

A user e.g. a user associated with the computing devices can backup data files of the user across multiple computing devices. Alternatively or in addition to backing up across the computing devices the user can back up the data files to the server . That is the distributed backup system facilitates backing up of the user s data files from the computing devices to the server or from the server to the computing devices . The data files are backed up across the computing devices based on various data backup policies. The data backup policies are designed to optimize the distributed backup system in various aspects including to minimize the response time in accessing the data files improving storage space utilization across the computing devices or storing particular data files in a particular computing device based on the user preference e.g. to provide convenience. The data backup policies are described in greater detail in the following paragraphs.

When the user requests using a particular computing device e.g. computing device to access a particular data file in the distributed backup system the distributed backup system determines whether any of the other computing devices of the user e.g. computing devices or that is in proximity to the particular computing device. If another proximate computing device has the particular data file the particular data file is transmitted to the user from the proximate computing device instead of from the server thereby minimizing the response time in accessing the particular data file. In some embodiments the data backup and retrieval are facilitated by data backup applications at the computing devices and or by data backup application at the server . In some embodiments the data backup applications can be part of the operating system executing on the computing devices respectively. Additional details with respect to the data backup and retrieval in the distributed back up system are described at least with reference to .

In some embodiments the criterion is based on attributes of a computing device e.g. processing capacity a total available space size of a display resolution of the display battery capacity or an operating system and or applications executing on the computing device. In some embodiments the data backup application automatically obtains the device information of the computing device it is executing on e.g. by using an application programming interface API provided by the operating system on the computing device. In some embodiments the data backup application can have the user provide the device information. The data backup application can store the device information as part of backup metadata on the computing device.

In some embodiments the criterion is based on a likelihood of a particular data file being accessed on a particular computing device or a likelihood of one or more computing devices being in proximity to the particular computing device when the particular data file is accessed is on the particular computing device. If a user is more likely to access the particular data file on a particular computing device the particular data file can be backed up to the particular computing device instead of the server so that the user can retrieve the particular data file faster. Alternatively or in addition to the particular data file can also be backed up to the other computing devices in the proximity e.g. if the particular computing does not have sufficient storage space to store the particular data file instead of the server . In some embodiments the data backup application monitors the access of the data files by the user and generates an access pattern based on various parameters. The access pattern can be used to determine the likelihood and define the data backup policies using the likelihood.

Some example policies are illustrated using data backup policies . The data backup policies serve various purposes. For example the user may define a data backup policy e.g. P5 for storing video files on a computing device that has a bigger display e.g. computing device . This data backup policy can be useful in a scenario where the computing devices have a display with different form factors and the user can choose to store the video data files on the device with bigger display. The data backup policy P5 also includes a storage space criterion which indicates that the data files are to be backed up to the computing device if the available storage space at the computing device is greater than 10 GB. If the available storage is lesser than 10 GB the data files are not backed up to the computing device . In some embodiments the user may define an alternative computing device in the policy P5 to which the data files can be backed up to if the available storage space in the computing device is lesser than 10 GB. This way the storage space within the computing devices of the user can be utilized more optimally. In some embodiments the user may define a policy to store all the video files of the user in a particular computing device.

In another example the user may define a data backup policy e.g. P1 for storing audio files on a computing device that the user uses more often than the other computing devices e.g. computing device . Note that data backup policies contain two policies P1 and P4 for storing audio files in different computing devices. However in some embodiments the user may define a single policy to store all audio files in one of the computing devices . In yet another example the user may define a data backup policy e.g. P6 for storing a particular file e.g. a vacation trip video on a computing device which the user uses to store personal data files e.g. computing device . In yet another example the user may define a data backup policy e.g. P2 for storing data files of a particular category e.g. image files that are categorized as personal on a computing device which the user uses to store personal data files e.g. computing device .

In another example the user may define a data backup policy e.g. P7 for storing particular data files e.g. emails on a computing device if the likelihood of accessing those data files on a computing device e.g. computing device exceeds a certain value. In some embodiments the data backup application continuously monitors the number of times the emails are accessed on the computing device and determines the likelihood of the emails being accessed in the future based on the monitored data. If the likelihood exceeds the defined value the data backup mobile application backs up the emails to the computing device . In some embodiments the determination of likelihood can be done at a predefined schedule e.g. when a data backup job is scheduled to execute.

In some embodiments if a particular data file does not match with any of the defined data backup policies the particular data file may be backed up to the server . In some embodiments all the data files of the user are backed up to the server by default.

The user can generate various such data backup policies in the distributed backup system e.g. using the data backup applications. However the data backup applications of a computing device or the server can create new data backup policies or modify the data backup policies e.g. based on an access pattern of the data files to further optimize the data backup and retrieval in the distributed backup system .

The user may create a data backup policy on any of the computing devices . The data backup applications on the computing devices can synchronize with each other to share the data backup policies created at all the computing devices . Alternatively each of the computing devices can send the data backup policies to the server and the server can consolidate the data backup policies created at all the computing devices and send it to each of the computing devices . The same is done for backup metadata which includes data such as device information a mapping of data files to computing devices etc. Each of the computing devices can have a copy of the backup metadata. The server can also store a copy of the data backup policies and the backup metadata.

Note that the representation of data backup policies in is an example representation. The data backup policies may be represented in various other ways. For example all policies for a particular computing device can be combined and represented as a single data backup policy for the particular computing device. In another example the data backup policy parameters which are represented as key value pairs e.g. type audio can be represented as just values and the data backup application can identify what attribute each of the values correspond to. The user can generate the data backup policies using a graphical user interface GUI provided by the data backup application.

The server identifies the computing device the data file has to be backed up to by identifying one or more data backup policies with which the data file matches. For example the server can compare the data file attributes e.g. type format or size with each of the data backup policies to determine whether the data file matches with a data backup policy. If the data file matches with a data backup policy the server obtains any device specific attributes of the computing device associated with the data backup policy e.g. storage space availability and verifies if the corresponding computing device satisfies the data backup policy. If the computing device satisfies the data backup policy the computing device is identified as the computing device to which the data file is to be backed up to.

The server identifies the computing devices for all the data files and transmits them to the corresponding computing devices. In some embodiments the server combines the data files to be backed up to a particular computing device into a dataset and then transmits the dataset to the particular computing device. For example the first dataset transmitted to the computing device can include the data files that match with at least one of the policies P1 or P3 associated with the computing device . Similarly the second dataset transmitted to the computing device can include the data files that match with the policy P5 associated with the computing device . Similarly the third dataset transmitted to the computing device includes the data files that match with at least one of the policies P2 P4 P6 or P7 associated with the computing device . In some embodiments a particular computing device may not receive any data file for storing e.g. if none of the data files match one or more policies associated with the particular computing device.

In some embodiments upon successful completion of the backup the server updates a mapping of the data files to the computing devices in the backup metadata . The mapping includes for each of the data files identifications IDs of the computing devices to which the data file is backed up. The mapping enables the server to keep track of where the data files are stored in the distributed backup system . The backup metadata can also include other information such as a last backup time a last backup size for each of the computing devices and or total backup size a device which initiated the backup etc. The server can also store a copy of the backup metadata on each of the computing devices . In some embodiments the server performs the above discussed back up processing using the data backup application . The data backup application further coordinates with the data backup applications on the computing devices to store the data files at the computing devices .

In some embodiments the user may backup data files from a computing device. illustrates a block diagram for backing up a data file from a computing device to the distributed backup system. The user requests to back up a data file from the computing device to the distributed backup system . The data file can be a data file that is generated or received at the computing device from a source other than the server or other computing devices . The data file can be backed up to the server or any of the other computing devices based on the data backup policies .

In some embodiments the data backup application on the computing device sends the data file as part of a backup request to the server . The server determines the computing device to which the data file is to be backed up based on the data backup policies . For example the server can determine that the data file is to be backed up to the computing device . The server then backs up the data file to the computing device . In some embodiments the server may not backup the data file to any computing device e.g. if no computing device is identified for the data file or if the data backup policy for the data file indicates that the data file is to be stored at the server only.

In some embodiments the computing device can back up the data file to the computing device directly instead of backing up via the server . For example if the computing device is in proximity to the computing device the computing device can send the data file to computing device directly e.g. using direct communication techniques which can include Wi Fi communication via a wireless access point and P2P communication such as a Bluetooth b Wi Fi direct c NFC d AirDrop e Infrared or f DLNA. Recall from that the each of the computing devices have a copy of the data backup policies . The data backup application at the computing device can determine that the data file has to be backed up to computing device based on the data backup policies . The computing device can then send the data file to computing device directly if the computing device is in proximity to the computing device .

The data backup application determines that the computing devices and are in proximity to one another if the computing device and the computing device satisfy proximity based criterion.

In some embodiments the proximity based criterion can include determining whether the computing devices and can communicate directly for example using direct communication techniques. If the computing devices and can communicate directly they are considered to satisfy the proximity based criterion.

In some embodiments the proximity based criterion can include determining whether the computing devices and share a common communication network e.g. a wireless network such as a home Wi Fi network. If the computing devices and share a common communication network they are considered to satisfy the proximity based criterion.

In some embodiments the proximity based criterion can include geographical location proximity of the computing devices and e.g. a distance between the two computing devices or a function of the distance. Various other functions may be used in determining the geographical location proximity. The geographical location of the device can be determined using various means such as Global Positioning System GPS installed on the computing device cellular towers the computing device is in communication with IP address through an application installed on the computing device that has location details of the computing device etc. If the computing devices and are within a predefined distance they are considered to satisfy the proximity based criterion.

If the computing devices are in proximity the computing device can back up the data file to computing device directly. Additionally the computing device may also backup another copy of the data file to the server . After the successful completion of the data backup the backup metadata is updated by e.g. either the data backup application or the data backup application and is synchronized with all the remaining computing devices in the distributed backup system .

The user can initiate the backup by executing a data backup job using any of the data backup applications on the computing devices . In some embodiments the user may configure the data backup job to execute at an occurrence of an event e.g. predefined intervals when a data file on a computing device changes when the user adds a new computing device to the distributed backup system or when the user removes an existing computing device from the distributed backup system e.g. user is no longer using the computing device or does not want to backup data to the computing device .

However if the server determines that the computing device is in proximity to the computing device the server indicates the computing device to redirect the request to the computing device . The computing device communicates with the computing device and retrieves the data file directly. The computing device retrieves the data file directly from the computing device using direct communication techniques described above with reference to . The server can determine whether the computing device is in proximity to the computing device as described above with reference to proximity in .

In some embodiments the computing device can retrieve the data file directly from the computing device without requesting the server . Recall from that the each of the computing devices have a copy of the data backup policies and backup metadata . The data backup application determines using the backup metadata and or the data backup policies that the computing device has the data file. Further the data backup application also determines that the computing device is in proximity to the computing device . After the determination the data backup application communicates with the data backup application of the computing device directly e.g. using direct communication techniques and obtains the data file.

The computing devices can act as edge cache servers of the distributed backup system . In some embodiments edge caching refers to the use of caching servers to store content closer to end users. By having a computing device access the data file from a proximate computing device instead of from the server the response time in accessing the data file is minimized that is any latency involved in retrieving the data file is minimized. Accordingly the user experience is also enhanced.

In some embodiments the distributed backup system tracks the access pattern of the data files by the user and updates the data backup policies accordingly. In some embodiments each of the data backup applications on the computing devices can monitor the access of the data files on the respective computing devices and transmit the access pattern to the server . The server can use the access patterns to create new data backup policies or update the data backup policies in various ways for further optimizing the data backup and retrieval in the distributed backup system e.g. in terms of response time storage space utilization across computing devices or high availability of data files.

For example if the server determines that a particular data file is accessed frequently using a particular computing device and often there are other computing devices in the proximity when the user accesses the particular data file the particular data file can be backed up to one of the proximate devices rather than the server. The server can also determine which data files are to be backed up to the server and which data files are to be backed up to the computing devices based on the access pattern. For example if the server determines that the frequency of access of a particular data file backed up on a computing device is below a threshold the server can modify the data backup policies to back up the particular data file to the server instead of the computing device. That way storage space can be made available on the computing device for storing a data file whose frequency of access is above the threshold.

The access pattern can include data regarding a a particular computing device used by the user to access a particular data file b a frequency of access of the particular data file from the particular computing device c a set of computing devices that are in proximity to the particular computing device when the particular data file is accessed d a period for which the particular computing device is used by the user to access the particular data file e a frequency of access of the particular data file f a number of times the particular data file is obtained from the server g a number of times the particular data file is obtained from any of the computing devices etc.

The network component can be capable of switching between states including a high power consumption state and a low power conservation state. The network component can be e.g. a Wi Fi networking adapter a cellular phone networking adapter or a combination thereof. The processor is configured to execute the computer applications and the operating system of the computing device . The memory stores instructions of the operating system which when executed by the processor cause the operating system to perform processes for realizing certain functionalities of the computing device . For instance the process of the operating system can facilitate the data backup application to backup and or retrieve data from or to other computing devices .

The local storage device as described above can store the instructions the operating system user data such as profile data of the user data files of the user and any other data necessary for the operation of the computing device and execution of the computer applications .

The computing device also includes a data backup module that is used to implement the data backup application . The data backup module performs various data backup and retrieval functions as described with reference to . Additional details with respect to the data backup module are described with reference to below.

The data backup module includes a data backup policy module to generate data backup policies e.g. data backup policies that are used for determining the computing devices to which the data files of the user are to be backed up to. A data backup policy defines the criterion for storing a data file in a computing device. In some embodiments the criterion is based on attributes of the data file e.g. a type size created date modified date a format or a category. In some embodiments the criterion is based on attributes of a computing device e.g. processing capacity a total available space size of a display resolution of the display battery capacity or an operating system and or applications executing on the computing device. In some embodiments the criterion is based on a likelihood of a particular data file being accessed on a particular computing device or a likelihood of one or more computing devices being in proximity to the particular computing device when the particular data file is accessed is on the particular computing device.

The data backup module includes a policy identification module to determine the data files that match a particular data backup policy. For example the policy identification module can compare the data file attributes e.g. type format or size with each of the data backup policies to determine whether the data file matches with a particular data backup policy. If data file matches with the particular data backup policy the policy identification module also identifies the computing device associated with the particular data backup policy as the computing device to which the data file is to be backed up.

The data backup module includes a device identification module to identify a computing device which contains a particular data file. When a user requests to retrieve a particular data file the device identification module determines the location of the particular data file in the distributed backup system . In some embodiments the device identification module refers to a mapping stored in backup metadata e.g. backup metadata to obtain the location of the particular data file. The mapping includes for each of the data files identifications IDs of the computing devices to which the data file is backed up. In some embodiments the device identification module requests the policy identification module to identify the computing devices containing the particular data file by identifying the data backup policy with which the particular data file matches.

The data backup module includes a proxy determination module to determine if two computing devices are in proximity to each other. The proxy determination module determines that two computing devices are in proximity to one another if the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if the computing devices share a common communication network e.g. a wireless network such as a home Wi Fi network. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if geographical location proximity of the computing devices e.g. a distance between the two computing devices or a function of the distance is within a threshold. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if the computing devices can communicate directly e.g. using direct communication techniques.

The proximity between two computing devices is determined for various reasons including for facilitating the computing devices to communicate with each other directly instead of via the server . In some embodiments a computing device can retrieve a data file directly from another computing device that is in proximity to the computing device instead of from the server thereby minimizing any delay that can be caused in retrieving the data file from the server over the network .

The data backup module includes an access redirection module to redirect a request issued by a computing device to a server for retrieving a data file to another computing device that contains the data file and is in proximity to the computing device.

The data backup module includes an access pattern determination module to determine an access pattern of the data files for the user. The data back policy module can use the access patterns to create new data backup policies or update the exiting data backup policies in various ways for further optimizing the data backup and retrieval in the distributed backup system . For example e.g. the data backup and retrieval can be optimized in terms of response time storage space utilization across computing devices or high availability of data files.

The access pattern can include data regarding a a particular computing device used by the user to access a particular data file b a frequency of access of the particular data file from the particular computing device c a set of computing devices that are in proximity to the particular computing device when the particular data file is accessed d a period for which the particular computing device is used by the user to access the particular data file e a frequency of access of the particular data file f a number of times the particular data file is obtained from the server g a number of times the particular data file is obtained from any of the computing devices etc.

At block the policy identification module identifies for each of the data files stored at the server one or more data backup policies with which the data file matches. After identifying the matching data backup policies the policy identification module also identifies the set of the computing devices associated with the matching data backup policies. For example the policy identification module can compare the data file attributes e.g. type format or size with each of the data backup policies to determine whether the data file matches with a particular data backup policy. If data file matches with the particular data backup policy the policy identification module also identifies the computing device associated with the particular data backup policy as the computing device to which the data file is to be backed up. Consequently the policy identification module generates for each of the computing devices a dataset containing the data files that are to be transmitted to the corresponding computing device.

At block the network component transmits the datasets to the corresponding computing devices and the process returns.

At block the policy identification module at the computing device identifies a data backup policy with which the data file matches. For example the policy identification module can compare the data file attributes e.g. type format or size with each of the data backup policies to determine whether the data file matches with the data backup policy. If data file matches with the data backup policy at block the policy identification module identifies the computing device associated with the data backup policy for backing up the data file to.

At decision block the proxy determination module at the computing device determines if the computing device and the identified computing device are in proximity to each other. The proxy determination module determines that two computing devices are in proximity to one another if the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if the computing devices share a common communication network e.g. a wireless network such as a home Wi Fi network. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if geographical location proximity of the computing devices e.g. a distance between the two computing devices or a function of the distance is within a threshold. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if the computing devices can communicate directly e.g. using direct communication techniques.

Responsive to a determination that the computing device and the identified device are in proximity to each other at block the network component transmits the data file to the identified computing device. The identified computing device receives the data files and stores the data file at a storage device associated with the identified computing device.

On the other hand responsive to a determination that the computing device and the identified device are not in proximity to each other at block the network component transmits the data file to the server for further transmission of the data file to identified computing device. The server receives the data file from the computing device and transmits it to the identified computing device.

At decision block the device identification module determines if any of the remaining computing devices of the user contains the data file. In some embodiments the device identification module refers to a mapping stored in backup metadata e.g. backup metadata to obtain the location of the particular data file. In some embodiments the device identification module requests the policy identification module to identify the computing devices containing the particular data file by identifying the data backup policy with which the particular data file matches.

Responsive to a determination that none of the remaining computing devices contain the data file at block the network component obtains the data file from the storage device associated with the server and transmits the data file to the first computing device and the process returns. For example the server streams the video file to the first computing device.

On the other hand responsive to a determination that one of the remaining computing devices contain the data file at decision block the proxy determination module determines if the first computing device and the identified computing device are in proximity to each other. The proxy determination module determines that two computing devices are in proximity to one another if the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if the computing devices share a common communication network e.g. a wireless network such as a home Wi Fi network. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if geographical location proximity of the computing devices e.g. a distance between the two computing devices or a function of the distance is within a threshold. In some embodiments the two computing devices satisfy a proximity based criterion if the computing devices can communicate directly e.g. using direct communication techniques.

Responsive to a determination that the first computing device and the identified device are not in proximity to each other at block the network component obtains the data file from the storage device associated with the server and transmits the data file to the first computing device and the process returns. For example the server streams the requested video file to the first computing device.

On the other hand responsive to a determination that the first computing device and the identified computing device are in proximity to each other at block the access redirection module instructs the first computing device to redirect the access request to the identified computing device. In some embodiments instead of instructing the first computing device to redirect its request to the identified computing device the access redirection module instructs the identified computing device to transmit the data file to the first computing device. Consequently the first computing device obtains the data file from the identified computing device directly e.g. using direct communication techniques. In some embodiments the direct communication technique can include Wi Fi communication via a wireless access point and P2P communication such as Bluetooth Wi Fi direct AirDrop Infrared NFC or DLNA. In transmitting the requested data file to the first computing device the identified computing device acts as an edge cache of the distributed backup system for transmitting the requested data file. For example the identified computing device acts as an edge cache for streaming the requested video file to the first computing device.

In some embodiments edge caching refers to the use of caching servers to store content closer to end users. By having a computing device access the data file from a proximate computing device instead of from the server over the network computing resources such as the response time in retrieving the data file is minimized.

The memory and storage devices are computer readable storage media that may store instructions that implement at least portions of the described technology. In addition the data structures and message structures may be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium such as a signal on a communications link. Various communications links may be used such as the Internet a local area network a wide area network or a point to point dial up connection. Thus computer readable media can include computer readable storage media e.g. non transitory media and computer readable transmission media.

The instructions stored in memory can be implemented as software and or firmware to program the processor s to carry out actions described above. In some embodiments such software or firmware may be initially provided to the computing system by downloading it from a remote system through the computing system e.g. via network adapter .

The technology introduced herein can be implemented by for example programmable circuitry e.g. one or more microprocessors programmed with software and or firmware or entirely in special purpose hardwired non programmable circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Special purpose hardwired circuitry may be in the form of for example one or more ASICs PLDs FPGAs etc.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. Further various modifications may be made without deviating from the scope of the embodiments. Accordingly the embodiments are not limited except as by the appended claims.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not for other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way. One will recognize that memory is one form of a storage and that the terms may on occasion be used interchangeably.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the logic illustrated in each of the flow diagrams discussed above may be altered in various ways. For example the order of the logic may be rearranged substeps may be performed in parallel illustrated logic may be omitted other logic may be included etc.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

