---

title: Microneedles with sharpened tips and corresponding method of fabrication
abstract: Microneedles with sharpened tips are fabricated without any reduction to the shaft diameter below the tip. By sharpening the tip and not the entire length of the microneedle, their mechanical strength is maintained. The microneedles are fabricated out of a wafer substrate using lithography and deep reactive-ion etching (DRIE). By controlling the timing of the DRIE as the photoresist depletes, the sharpness and angle of the tips are controlled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09526885&OS=09526885&RS=09526885
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09526885
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140324
---
This application is a divisional application of a pending U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 845 221 entitled MICRONEEDLES WITH SHARPENED TIPS AND CORRESPONDING METHOD OF FABRICATION filed on Jul. 28 2010 which further claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 229 571 having the same title filed on Jul. 29 2009.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. W81XWH 05 1 0585 awarded by the U.S. Department of the Army. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to microneedles. More specifically it relates to microneedles having sharpened sidewall tips and the corresponding method of fabricating them.

Many systems involve the transfer of physical entities through the skin including needle puncture electroporation and removal of the stratum corneum through gels or tapes.

These methods however are all fairly intrusive. A minimally invasive method for sampling or delivering biological fluids is essential to autonomous therapy systems. Microneedles can achieve this task with significantly less trauma since their sharp tips and short lengths reduce the odds of encountering a nerve. They either do not penetrate deep enough to reach the underlying nerves thus being totally painless or they just graze the tips of nerves causing sensation but reducing pain nevertheless.

An important design parameter in the fabrication of microneedles is the compromise between structural rigidity and ease of penetration. Due to the elasticity of skin a considerable amount of deformation takes place around the insertion site significantly reducing the insertion depth of microneedles. To mitigate the undesirable effects of skin deformation the pressure applied by the needle tips needs to be increased. Insertion pressure can be increased by raising the applied force or by increasing the needle sharpness. An increase in applied force however intensifies the strain on the microneedles and may cause undue breakage. It may also magnify the patient s discomfort. Vibratory actuation has been suggested to decrease the force required for insertion. However this requires the use of a vibratory actuator which may not be possible for all applications or might complicate the design requirements.

Permeation of microneedles can also be improved by increasing their sharpness. Sharpness is often achieved at the expense of structural rigidity. The needles must be capable of tolerating stresses related to the non uniformity of the skin contour inadvertent slippage during insertion or removal and reasonable human movements during penetration. Microneedles with extremely sharp tips but thin needle bodies have been employed with successful penetration into the skin. However structural damage after insertion was reported due to compromised sidewall thickness. Various approaches have used pyramidal or conical shaped structures to decrease the insertion area. Such designs achieve sharpening of the needle tip by gradually reducing the diameter of the lumen from the base to the tip. Reducing the lumen diameter in general reduces needle strength causing the top portions of the needles to be prone to breakage. Some other approaches have used a side opened spearhead structure at the tip of the needles. Apart from being extremely sharp such designs also solve the issue of microneedle clogging unfortunately however they also increase the fragility of the needles and are relatively complex to fabricate. Making the tip of the needles biodegradable is another approach having similar limitations. Yet another approach is fabricating needles with the entire length beveled. Such needles are relatively robust however. Similarly needles having only their tips beveled have been fabricated but possess relatively limited sharpness.

Accordingly what is needed in the art is a microneedle that easily penetrates the skin without increased applied force due to the microneedle s sharpness and rigidity. What is also needed is a method of fabricating said microneedle. However in view of the prior art considered as a whole at the time the present invention was made it was not obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art how the limitations of the art could be overcome.

The long standing but heretofore unfulfilled need for an improved microneedle that easily penetrates the skin without increased applied force due to the microneedle s sharpness and rigidity is now met by a new useful and nonobvious invention.

Generally speaking the present invention is a microneedle with a sharpened tip. The microneedle includes sidewalls that are sharpened only at the tip and not over the entire length of the microneedle. Sharpening only the tip ensures the mechanical stiffness of the microneedle is maintained. As a result the required insertion force to penetrate the skin is reduced. This in effect increases the reliability of the microneedle.

Structurally the microneedle includes a base having a fluid delivery channel formed within its backside. A needle extends from the front surface of the base and forms a passage through the base via the fluid delivery channel. The upper tip of the needle is tapered on both sides to create a sharpened tip. The sidewalls of the microneedle however are not sharpened below the tip. In this preferred embodiment the microneedle is hollow however the term microneedle encompasses both hollow and solid microneedles. Accordingly a solid microneedle would not include the passage through the base or the fluid delivery channel.

The method of fabricating the microneedle starts with a wafer substrate. Photoresist is applied to the back surface of the wafer substrate using lithography and outlines a fluid delivery channel. The fluid delivery channel is then etched into the backside of the wafer substrate using deep reactive ion etching DRIE . Photoresist is also applied to the front surface of the wafer substrate using lithography and outlines the sidewalls of the microneedle. The sidewalls of the microneedle are then etched into the front side of the wafer substrate using DRIE. The fluid delivery channel and needle form a passage through the wafer substrate.

The sharpening of the microneedle tip depends upon the controlled depletion of the photoresist and requires precise timing of the DRIE on the front side of the wafer substrate. As the photoresist depletes on the front side of the wafer substrate during the DRIE the gradual change in photoresist mask size creates a tapered etch profile at the tip of the microneedle sidewalls. The taper angle of the microneedles depends upon the etch rate of the wafer substrate as well as the depletion rate of the photoresist. Using this process extremely sharp sidewall tips can be obtained which greatly reduces the required skin penetration force. Also such a design enables the use of larger lumen needles without a proportional increase in penetration force. This helps reduce blockage problems to which smaller lumen needles are often susceptible.

In addition the aforementioned method to sharpen microneedles can be used to sharpen a variety of out of plane silicon structures other than microneedles.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

Microneedles are fabricated out of a wafer substrate using lithography and deep reactive ion etching DRIE . As depicted in lithography is performed on back surface of wafer substrate . The lithography patterns photoresist on back surface of wafer substrate . Photoresist forms circular holes which outline channels for fluid delivery. Next as depicted in fluid delivery channels are etched into back surface of wafer substrate using DRIE. Lithography is then performed on front surface of wafer substrate . As depicted in the lithography patterns photoresist on front surface of wafer substrate . Photoresist forms circular holes which outline the microneedle sidewalls . Next as depicted in microneedles sidewalls are etched on front surface of wafer substrate using DRIE.

As depicted in the sharpening of microneedle tips depends upon the controlled depletion of the photoresist and requires precise timing of the DRIE performed on front surface of wafer substrate . When most of the photoresist has been depleted the resist loses its resolution and starts getting etched from the sides. The reduction of resist width corresponds to reduction of the annular ring area forming the protective mask. As illustrated in the outer diameter of the annular resist ring reduces over time while the inner diameter increases over time. The gradual change in photoresist protective mask size during the DRIE causes a tapered etch profile to be created at the upper tip of the microneedle sidewalls.

To complete the process a final solvent cleans the transformed wafer substrate and removes any residual photoresist as depicted in .

The taper angle of the microneedles depends upon the etch rate of the wafer substrate as well as the depletion rate of the photoresist i.e. the etch selectivity. By reducing the selectivity between the photoresist and the wafer substrate a higher taper angle is obtained. A reduction in selectivity is brought about by appropriate changes in the DRIE recipe. In general an increase in selectivity is brought about at the expense of a reduced etch rate. Maximum etch rate conditions are achieved when the residence time of reactive species is increased by using a lower total gas flow rate or when the partial pressure of the reactive precursor gas is increased. The plasma generated neutral chemical species do not readily etch the wafer substrate surface but do play a role in the photoresist etching. By changing the interactive physical and chemical etching of the photoresist and the wafer substrate the selectivity can be varied. This is usually implemented in plasma etch systems by independently controlling the power input to the plasma and the bias voltage applied to the wafer substrate.

Precise timing of the etch duration is critical. As soon as the entire resist is depleted the microneedles are completely exposed to DRIE etching. Even a few minutes of over etching can result in complete loss of the needle tip. This is due to the inherent nature of the DRIE etching Bosch process . During the first part of the Bosch process polymer deposition takes place on the entire wafer substrate. The second part the DRIE etch cycle has a greater vertical component of etch rate than the horizontal component. Before the polymer on the vertical surfaces gets completely depleted during the etch cycle the next polymer deposition cycle starts. The precise timing of cycles results in an almost total lack of lateral etching on vertical surfaces such as the needle sidewalls. However on a slanted surface such as the needle tip the polymer gets etched faster than it would on the sidewalls due to an additional vertical etch component. Thus the polymer on the slanted surface gets depleted completely before the next deposition cycle. Due to faster vertical than horizontal etching as the process progresses the slant increases and polymer depletion time reduces. In effect the tip vanishes faster and faster eventually leading to a flat blunt top surface.

Parameters such as tip angle tip length tip profile the area inside the outer contour of the needle tip and others collectively define the relative level of tip sharpness. All of these parameters can be controlled as the photoresist depletes on the front side of the wafer substrate during the DRIE by controlling the length of the DRIE and the etch selectivity.

In an exemplary embodiment the needles are fabricated out of a 4 inch 400 m thick 100 oriented double side polished silicon wafer substrate. Lithography is performed on the backside of the wafer using photoresist AZ P4620. The lithography patterns the wafer with circular holes outlining the through wafer microfluidic channels for fluid delivery. DRIE Alcatel AMS 100 SDE is performed on the backside of the wafer forming approximately 200 m deep holes. The DRIE recipe is Etch step SF6 at 300 sccm with 3 sec. cycle Passivation step C4F8 at 200 sccm and O2 at 20 sccm with 1.4 sec. cycle Pressure 5.25 10 1 mTorr Source generator power 2400 W Substrate holder power Used in pulsed mode High cycle at 100 W for 25 millisecond Low cycle at 0 W for 75 millisecond Substrate holder He pressure 9.75 10 3 mTorr Bias Voltage negative 185 V. Lithography is then performed on the front side of the wafer again using photoresist AZ P4620. This step outlines the microneedle sidewalls. Next DRIE of the silicon wafer is done using a similar etch recipe as stated above to form the microneedles sidewalls. The microneedles ranged from 33 gauge i.e. outer and inner diameters of 200 m and 100 m respectively to 36 gauge i.e outer and inner diameters of 100 m and 30 m respectively .

The proposed insertion technique of the microneedles into skin is depicted in . Initially the microneedle forms a slight indentation on the top surface of skin as shown in . As the microneedle moves further into the skin the skin deformation increases as shown in . The skin gets deformed before rupturing due to inherent resistance to penetration. The amount of resistance ability of skin can be thought of as a potential energy stored within it. When the energy incident via the needles surpasses the potential energy within the skin penetration occurs. At this point the penetration is relatively instantaneous especially at high insertion forces. depicts a post insertion of the microneedle. At the instant of penetration the skin moves slightly towards the needle array thus registering a force drop. After insertion the base of the array touches the skin surface and continues to push forward. As sharper needles are used the needles puncture the skin faster and after relatively lesser deformation.

In a preferred embodiment the microneedle is hollow. A hollow microneedle allows for the administration of fluids. However the term microneedle encompasses both hollow and solid microneedles. Accordingly a solid microneedle would not include the passage through the base or the fluid delivery channel.

The aforementioned method of sharpening microneedles can be used to sharpen a variety of out of plane silicon structures other than microneedles e.g. to create a wedge or straight knife edge . Photoresist may be applied to a substrate in a variety of patterns using lithography and the substrate etched as desired using DRIE. Any number of structures may be formed by controlling the length of the DRIE and the etch selectivity.

It will thus be seen that the objects set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing disclosure are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing disclosure or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention that as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

