---

title: Systems, methods, and devices for cell selection based on prioritized nodes
abstract: Systems and methods for cell selection and/or reselection based on prioritize nodes are disclosed herein. User equipment (UE) may be configured to determine whether to select and/or reselect an Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Node B (eNB). The eNB may be a dedicated eNB and/or may be communicatively coupled to a dedicated core network (CN). The dedicated eNB and/or the dedicated CN may be configured to optimize performance for UEs sharing particular characteristics. Accordingly, the selection and/or reselection criteria may be biased to encourage the UE to select and/or reselect towards a dedicated eNB and/or an eNB coupled to a dedicated CN. The eNB and/or CN may be dedicated to supporting particular types of UEs, types of nodes, types of traffic, types of subscriptions, UE mobilities, applications/services, other predetermined categories, and/or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398500&OS=09398500&RS=09398500
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09398500
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141223
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 990 650 filed May 8 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to systems methods and devices for selecting cells based on prioritized nodes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless communication device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include for example the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or Wi Fi. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems a base station may include Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and or Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicate with a wireless communication device known as user equipment UE . In LTE networks an E UTRAN may include a plurality of eNodeBs and may communicate with a plurality of UEs. An evolved packet core EPC may communicatively couple the E UTRAN to an external network such as the Internet. LTE networks include radio access technology RAT and core radio network architecture that can provide high data rate low latency packet optimization and improved system capacity and coverage.

A wireless communication network may include one or more dedicated network nodes. For example a RAN and or an EPC may be a dedicated RAN and or a dedicated EPC. A dedicated node may be dedicated to UEs sharing identical characteristics. The dedicated node may be optimized for the UEs thus may more efficiently handle the UEs and or associated traffic. Software defined networking and network functions virtualization may allow for fast and affordable deployment of dedicated nodes e.g. a mobility management entity MME may be instantiated as a virtual network function . In some embodiments the dedicated node may support machine type communication MTC low complexity category 0 UEs and or Internet of Things IoT UEs e.g. small data health security etc. UEs . A dedicated node may provide support for always on connectivity small data frequent data transfer high priority access healthcare video surveillance networks etc. Alternatively or in addition a dedicated node may provide support for specific services applications that the UE is running.

A UE may measure a signal from an eNB to determine whether to select the eNB and camp on it and or to reselect to that eNB from another eNB. For example the UE may measure the signal from an eNB by measuring a Reference Signal Received Power RSRP a Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ and or the like. If the measured signal satisfies predetermined criteria the UE may select and or reselect the corresponding eNB. Selection and or reselection criteria may be adjusted based on UE characteristics and whether an eNB supports a corresponding dedicated node. An eNB may support a corresponding dedicated node if the eNB is a dedicated eNB if the eNB is communicatively coupled to a dedicated MME serving gateway SGW packet data network gateway PGW etc. and or the like. Selection and or reselection criteria may be adjusted based on whether a node is optimized to serve a specific application application category quality of service class identifier QCI etc. with which the UE is configured. The adjusted criteria may provide improved offloading and avoid ping pong in cell selections reselections by the UE.

Cell selection may give priority to eNBs that support dedicated nodes such as dedicated RANs dedicated EPCs and or both. An offset may be included for eNBs that support a dedicated node. For example a quality criterion Squal may be calculated according to the equation Squal 1 Where Qis a measured cell quality value e.g. RSRQ Qis a minimum required quality in the cell Qis an offset to the signaled Qtaken into account in the Squal evaluation as a result of a periodic search for a higher priority public land mobile network PLMN while camped normally in a visitor PLMN VPLMN and Qis an offset to account for whether the cell supports a dedicated network. Each dedicated network or type of dedicated network may have a different value for O. Values for Qmay be positive or negative depending on the embodiment and or configuration.

A different offset may be used for dedicated RANs than for dedicated EPCs. For example the quality criterion Squal may be calculated differently based on whether there is a dedicated RAN a dedicated EPC or both using the equations Squal 2 Squal 3 Squal 4 Where Qis an offset to take into account the fact that an eNB supports a dedicated RAN and Qis an offset to take into account the fact that an eNB supports a dedicated EPC. Each dedicated RAN may have a different offset and each dedicated EPC may have a different offset.

Similarly a power level criterion may be calculated using an offset to account for whether an eNB supports a dedicated node. For example a quality criterion Srxlev may be calculated according to the equation Srxlev 5 Where Qis a measured cell RX level value e.g. RSRP Qis a minimum required RX level in the cell Qis an offset to the signaled Qtaken into account in the Srxlev evaluation as a result of a periodic search for a higher priority PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN Pis a maximum function of zero and the difference between the maximum UE power to be used in this cell and the maximum UE power according to the UE s power class and Qis an offset to account for whether the cell supports a dedicated network. Each dedicated network or type of dedicated network may have a different value for Q. Values for Qmay be positive or negative depending on the embodiment and or configuration.

A different offset may be used for dedicated RANs than for dedicated EPCs. For example the quality criterion Srxlev may be calculated differently based on whether there is a dedicated RAN a dedicated EPC or both using the equations Srxlev 6 Srxlev 7 Srxlev 8 Where Qis an offset to take into account the fact that an eNB supports a dedicated RAN and Qis an offset to take into account the fact that an eNB supports a dedicated EPC. Each dedicated RAN may have a different offset and each dedicated EPC may have a different offset. Different types of nodes e.g. MTC nodes IoT nodes etc. may have different offsets applied for calculation of a selection criterion e.g. Squal Srxlev etc. .

An offset for cell selection may also or instead be applied for different applications services supported and or prioritized by a node. The applications services may include interactive e.g. gaming video e.g. caching capability and or the like. A bitmap may be used to indicate the applications services supported and or prioritized by a node. Each bit may indicate whether the node supports and or prioritizes a specific predetermined application service corresponding to the bit. A bitmap of desired applications services of the UE may be compared to the node bitmap e.g. by performing a bitwise AND to determine if there is a match and or how many matches exist. An offset may be determined if a match is found. The bitmap of applications services provided may be sent with corresponding offset values to be used in calculating a selection criterion. A largest offset a sum of offsets and or the like may be determined for any matches. The cell selection procedure may be applied using the determined offset.

Nodes and or groups of nodes that share characteristics may be assigned to categories. For example an MTC cell group that supports MTC traffic small data traffic and or the like may be assigned to a category. The categories may be predefined in a specification predefined by a network operator and or the like. The nodes and or groups of nodes may indicate to the UE which cells frequencies or groups belong to each category. The UE may use a predetermined set of rules to determine which category and or group to select. The rules may be based on time location configuration or broadcast information service offered etc. For example an MTC type UE in idle mode with a small data rate may decide to camp on a dedicated cell belonging to a group. In addition the UE may become a member of such a group for expedited services and reduced signal overhead handling. Offsets similar to those used in equations 1 8 may be used for determining which cell to select. The UE may be allowed to perform cell reselection to specific cells based on the services that are supported.

Cell reselection may also give priority to eNBs that supported dedicated nodes. In an embodiment a threshold may be used to determine whether reselect towards a cell that supports a corresponding dedicated node from a cell that does not support a corresponding dedicated node. For example a threshold Thresh may specify an Srxlev threshold for reselecting to an eNB that supports a dedicated node. Each dedicated node may have a different threshold value. Alternatively or in addition thresholds Threshand Thresh may be used as Srxlev thresholds for reselecting to an eNB that supports a dedicated RAN or dedicated EPC respectively. Each dedicated RAN may have a different threshold value and each dedicated EPC may have a different threshold value.

The UE may be able to communicatively couple with any of a plurality of overlaying networks e.g. different radio access technologies RATs different frequencies etc. which can be dedicated per node per frequency and or the like. For example a first frequency layer may be dedicated for MTC and a second frequency layer may be dedicated for video. The UE may select the nodes and or frequency layers dedicated to that type of UE and or dedicated to a desired application service. When it is in idle mode the UE may reselect to the node and or frequency layer most optimized for the UE. A threshold Thresh as an Srxlev threshold may be used when reselecting towards a cell that supports a dedicated frequency from a cell that does not. Each dedicated frequency may have a different threshold value.

For intra frequency and equal priority inter frequency cell reselection reselection criteria may be calculated with an offset for dedicated nodes. For example the reselection criteria may be computed according to the equations 9 10 Where Ris a reselection criterion for a serving cell Ris a reselection criterion for a neighboring cell Qand Qare RSRP measurement quantities used in cell reselections from the serving cell and neighboring cell respectively and Qis a hysteresis value. And where Qoffset for intra frequency equals Qoffset a predetermined offset between the serving cell and the neighboring cell provided by the eNB if Qoffsetis valid and otherwise equals zero and Qoffset for inter frequency measurements equals Qoffsetplus Qoffset a frequency specific offset for equal priority E UTRAN frequencies plus Qoffset an offset to account for whether the cell supports a dedicated network if Qoffsetand Qoffsetare valid otherwise equals Qoffsetplus Qoffsetif Qoffsetis valid and otherwise equals Qoffset. In alternate embodiments the dedicated offset may be not included in Qoffset but rather may be included as a separate element of equation 10.

The UE may perform ranking of all cells that fulfill the updated cell selection criterion S 0 e.g. using a cell selection criterion from one or more of equations 1 8 . The cells may be ranked according to the reselection criteria e.g. Rand Raccording to equations 9 and 10 . The UE may perform the measurements to acquire Qand Qand calculate the reselection criteria using averaged RSRP results. The UE may perform cell reselection to the cell ranked as the best cell.

Nodes may be prioritized for selection and or reselection based on an application service a node type a traffic type a subscription UE mobility and or the like. The prioritized nodes may include specific characteristics that support the particular configuration being prioritized. For example the prioritized nodes may include dynamic on off beam shaping etc. In some embodiments a combination of application or node type and UE mobility may provide a good parameter for deciding the cell to which the UE should select reselect. For example a high mobility and small data traffic type UE may select reselect to a cell that supports small data optimization enhancement but does not change other parameters rapidly e.g. not a cell that turns on and off frequently .

Nodes may be prioritized by predetermined categorizations. The categorizations may be predefined in a specification predefined by a network operator and or the like. The nodes and or groups of nodes may indicate to the UE which cells frequencies or groups belong to each category. The UE may use a predetermined set of rules to determine the category and or group to which the UE should select reselect. The rules may be based on time location configuration or broadcast information service offered etc. Offsets similar to those used in equations 9 and 10 and or category specific thresholds may be used for determining the cell to which the UE should select reselect.

The cell selection and or reselection offsets and or the reselection thresholds may be broadcast in a system information block SIB by individual eNBs in a manner similar to frequency priority. Alternatively or in addition offsets and or thresholds may be broadcast by a central control eNB for multiple eNBs within a coordinated cluster. Broadcasting by the central control eNB may minimize signaling and delay for the UE to decode the broadcast information and reduce bandwidth usage. In some embodiments the offsets and or thresholds may be configured by the last eNB to which the UE is communicatively coupled in connected mode. The UE may use a timer to determine when the information has expired. In an embodiment the UE may update the information from the SIB after the timer expires.

Configuration information for the UE may be provided in various ways. The configuration information may include the cell selection and or reselection offsets the reselection thresholds bitmaps of applications services supported and or prioritized by a node an indication of applications services demanded by the UE an indication of whether a node is dedicated an indication of whether the UE is dedicated an indication of whether a node is a priority node an indication of a type of UE for determining priority nodes an indication of a category and or group to which a node belongs an indication of a category and or group to which the UE belongs an indication of dedicated frequencies and or the like.

In an embodiment the configuration information may be provided through an access network discovery and selection function ANDSF . The configuration information may be included in subscription information. The UE may be preconfigured to be a dedicated UE e.g. a MTC device with only small data and or preconfigured with frequencies e.g. dedicated frequencies . The UE may receive a network indication of the configuration information e.g. a non access stratum NAS message a radio resource control RRC message and or the like which may be provided upon attaching to an eNB or other network node. The configuration information may be determinable based on predefined rules and or conditions or up to the network implementation. The configuration information may be included in a SIB. In some embodiments different elements of the configuration information may be provided in different ways.

An MME identifier MMEI may be configured to indicate that a corresponding MME is a dedicated node. Specific encoding of the MMEI may be used to identify the MME as a dedicated node and or to identify which type of dedicated node the MME is. A globally unique MMEI GUMMEI may be constructed from a mobile country code MCC a mobile network code MNC and the MMEI. The MMEI may be constructed from a MME group ID MMEGI and an MME code MMEC . In an embodiment the most significant bits of the MMEI may be reserved to distinguish if the MME is a dedicated MME. For example a most significant bit may be reserved to indicate if the GUMMEI is mapped from a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI a routing area identification RAI or the like and the next one or more most significant bits may be reserved to indicate that the MME is a dedicated MME and or to identify the type category etc. of UE supported by the MME.

Alternatively or in addition one or more of the most significant bits of the MMEC may be reserved to indicate whether the GUMMEI is mapped to a dedicated MME and or to identify the type category etc. of UE supported by the MME. In some embodiments the MMEI may be constructed from an MMEGI an MMEC and a dedicated MMEI DMMEI . For example the DMMEI may be 8 16 etc. bits in length and appended after the MMEGI and MMEC. Different encodings and or values of the DMMEI may be used to indicate the type category etc. of UE supported by the MME and or different encodings may be used for MME mode selection. For example a predetermined DMMEI may identify MMEs dedicated to MTC traffic.

In some situations configuration information and or policies for selecting and or reselecting may not exist. In such situations the UE may use legacy calculations to determine the selection and or reselection criteria. If multiple policies are configured the priority of each policy may be determined according to UE implementation and or by receiving an indication of priority from the network. The previously discussed policies may work together with existing frequency priority policies. The relative priority of the previously discussed policies and the frequency policies may be predefined by the network and or predefined in a specification. The previously discussed policies may be higher priority than the frequency priority policies or vice versa.

Various UEs may communicatively couple to one or more of the eNBs . The UEs may include an ordinary UE and a health UE configured to use MTC. The dedicated eNB and or the dedicated MME may provide support and or priority to MTC. Accordingly performance of the health UE may be improved if it couples to the dedicated eNB and or the dedicated MME . The health UE may adjust cell selection and or reselection criteria to prioritize the dedicated eNB and or the dedicated MME over the ordinary eNBs and MME .

In such a complex network deployment it may be beneficial to allow a UE not shown to determine the specific eNB and or frequency layer to use. The UE may receive an indication of a network preference and or determine the eNB and or frequency layer based on predetermined rules. For example the UE may adjust priority based on whether the eNB is a dedicated eNB of the desired type category etc. based on whether the eNB supports a dedicated core network node e.g. an MME SGW PGW and or the like and or based on whether the eNB is optimized for serving a specific application application category QCI and or the like with which the UE is configured. The priority may be adjusted using the offsets thresholds and or the like previously discussed when performing cell selection and or reselection.

The UE may have a type category etc. supported and or prioritized by the dedicated node supported by the small cell eNB . Accordingly the small cell eNB may be prioritized when the UE is performing cell selection and or reselection. An offset may be used to bias the cell selection and or reselection criteria for the dedicated small cell eNB to encourage the UE to communicatively couple with the small cell eNB . A coverage area when the bias is included is illustrated with the larger dotted circle. The UE might not normally select and or reselect the small cell eNB because it is outside the coverage area. However the UE may select the small cell eNB if it supports a dedicated node because the UE is within the coverage area when the offset is included. An offset may also be used to bias against UEs that would not be well served or may even be harmed by a dedicated node. The small dotted circle illustrates a coverage area when an offset is included that discourages communicative coupling to the small cell eNB .

Each bit in the bitmap may correspond to an application and or service and the value of the bit may indicate whether that application and or service is supported. The particular application and or service corresponding to each bit may be predefined in a specification predefined by a network operator and or the like. The UE may maintain or be able to assemble its own bitmap indicating the applications and or services that it would like to have supported and or prioritized. The UE bitmap and the bitmap received from the eNB may be compared to determine if there are any matches. For example a logical AND operation may be performed on the bitmaps to determine which applications and or services are supported by the eNB and or a dedicated node. If a match is found an offset for selection and or reselection criteria may be determined. If multiple matches are found the offset may be cumulative may be the largest offset of the matches or may be determined based on a primary or most important application and or service. The UE may use the offset when performing cell selection and or reselection.

In addition to or instead of the DMMEI the most significant bit s of the MMEGI and or the MMEC may be reserved to indicate whether the MME is a dedicated MME and or which types and or categories of UEs are supported and or prioritized by the MME. In some embodiments the reserved bit s may indicate only whether or not the MME is a dedicated MME without indicating which particular types and or categories of UEs are supported. Separate signaling may be used to indicate which particular types and or categories of UEs are supported. Alternatively different values of the reserved bits may correspond to different types and or categories of UEs supported by the MME.

A signal from the eNB may be measured . For example the RSRP and or RSRQ of the signal may be determined based on measurements of the signal. The cell selection offset for the determined category may be added to or subtracted from the signal measurements. For example the cell selection offset for the determined category may be added or subtracted in addition to one or more additional offsets minimum levels compensations etc. to calculate a cell selection criterion. An eNB may be selected based on the signal measurements adjusted by the cell selection offset for the dedicated category. For example an eNB may be selected if a cell selection criterion is greater than zero.

At some point it may be determined that reselection measurements should be performed to determine whether to reselect to a new eNB. Signals may be measured for the serving eNB and or one or more neighboring eNBs. The signal may be measured by determining an RSRP and or RSRQ for each eNB being measured. The measurements may be adjusted based on a category of each cell. For example a category of each eNB may be received from the serving eNB and or from each of the serving and neighboring eNBs individually. An offset for each eNB may be determined for the corresponding received category and or may be received from the serving and or neighboring eNBs. Each measurement may be adjusted by the corresponding offset. For example a reselection criterion for each eNB may be computed from the measurements and the category offset in addition to one or more other offsets if the other offsets are valid.

The adjusted measurements may be compared with one another. In an embodiment a cell selection criterion may be calculated for each eNB. Each eNB with a cell selection criterion greater than zero may be ranked based on the reselection criterion. Whether to cell reselect to a new eNB may be determined based on the comparisons. For example the UE may decide to cell reselect to an eNB having a highest ranked reselection criterion. In some embodiments a serving eNB may not support a dedicated node but a neighboring eNB may support a dedicated node. Thresholds may be used to determine whether to cell reselect from the serving eNB to the neighboring eNB rather than computing reselection criteria. A threshold may be determined for the neighboring eNB. The signal measurements for the neighboring eNB may be compared to the threshold to determine whether to reselect to the neighboring eNB.

Example 1 is a UE configured to communicate with an E UTRAN. The UE includes a transceiver and a processor coupled to the transceiver. The processor is configured to measure a signal from an eNB. The processor is also configured to determine whether the eNB supports a corresponding dedicated node. The processor is also configured to compute a cell selection criterion from the signal measurement and the determination of whether the eNB supports the dedicated node.

In Example 2 the processor of Example 1 is configured to determine whether the eNB supports a dedicated node selected from the group consisting of a dedicated RAN node and a dedicated core network node.

In Example 3 the processor of any of Examples 1 2 is configured to determine whether the eNB supports a particular application service. The processor is also configured to compute the cell selection criterion based on the determination of whether the eNB supports the particular application service.

In Example 4 the processor of any of Examples 1 3 is configured to determine whether the eNB is associated with a predetermined category. The processor is also configured to compute the cell selection criterion based on the determination of whether the eNB is associated with the predetermined category.

In Example 5 the eNB of any of Examples 1 4 does not support a corresponding dedicated node. The processor is configured to determine whether a neighboring eNB supports a corresponding dedicated node. The processor is also configured to measure a signal from the neighboring eNB. The processor is also configured to compute a reselection criterion for the neighboring eNB. The processor is also configured to determine whether the reselection criterion exceeds a threshold.

In Example 6 the processor of Example 5 is configured to select the threshold based on whether the neighboring eNB supports the corresponding dedicated node.

In Example 7 the processor of any of Examples 1 6 is configured to determine whether the eNB supports the dedicated node by receiving a SIB from the eNB.

In Example 8 the processor of any of Examples 1 7 is configured to determine whether an MME is a dedicated MME by receiving an MME identifier indicative of whether the MME is a dedicated MME.

Example 9 is a method for selecting cells based on prioritized nodes. The method includes communicatively coupling with a base station without support for a corresponding dedicated core network. The method also includes determining using a processor that a neighboring base station supports a corresponding dedicated core network. The method also includes computing using the processor a reselection criterion for the base station based on a corresponding signal measurement. The method also includes computing using the processor a reselection criterion for the neighboring base station based on a corresponding signal measurement and a predetermined offset for base stations supporting corresponding dedicated core networks. The method also includes comparing using the processor the reselection criterion for the base station with the reselection criteria for the neighboring base station to determine whether to reselect the neighboring base station.

In Example 10 the reselection criterion for the neighboring base station of Example 9 is computed based on an offset for base stations supporting a characteristic selected from the group consisting of a particular application a particular node type a particular traffic type a particular subscription and a particular device mobility.

In Example 11 the reselection criterion for the neighboring base station of any of Examples 9 10 is computed based on an offset for base stations belonging to a predetermined categorization.

In Example 12 the method of any of Examples 9 11 also includes receiving a bitmap indicating applications supported by the neighboring base station.

In Example 13 determining that the neighboring base station supports the corresponding dedicated core network of any of Examples 9 12 includes receiving an indication that the neighboring base station supports the corresponding dedicated core network.

In Example 14 the indication of Example 13 is selected from the group consisting of an access network discovery and selection function message a non access stratum message and a system information broadcast.

In Example 15 determining that the neighboring base station supports the corresponding dedicated core network of any of Examples 9 14 includes receiving a dedicated core network identifier.

In Example 16 the method of any of Examples 9 15 also includes reselecting to the neighboring base station in response to determining to reselect to the neighboring base station.

Example 18 is at least one computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer readable instructions which when executed implement a method or realize an apparatus as describe in any of preceding example.

Example 19 is a wireless communication device including circuitry. The circuitry is configured to select an offset based on whether a base station supports a corresponding dedicated node. The circuitry is also configured to receive a signal measurement of a signal transmitted by the base station. The circuitry is also configured to calculate a selection criterion based on the offset and the signal measurement. The circuitry is also configured to determine whether to select the base station based on the selection criterion.

In Example 20 the circuitry of Example 19 is configured to select the offset based on which applications and services are provided by the base station.

In Example 21 the circuitry of any of Examples 19 20 is configured to select the offset based on whether the base station supports machine type communication.

In Example 22 the circuitry of any of Examples 19 21 is further configured to select a reselection offset based on whether a neighboring base station supports a corresponding dedicated node. The circuitry is also configured to receive a signal measurement of a signal transmitted by the neighboring base station. The circuitry is also configured to calculate a reselection criterion based on the reselection offset and the signal measurement of the signal transmitted by the neighboring base station. The circuitry is also configured to determine whether to reselect the neighboring base station based on the reselection criterion.

In Example 23 the wireless communication device of any of Examples 19 22 is preconfigured to be a dedicated wireless communication device.

In Example 24 the circuitry of any of Examples 19 23 is configured to determine whether the base station supports the corresponding dedicated node based on one or more reserved bits in an identifier for the corresponding dedicated node.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or another medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present disclosure may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present disclosure.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the disclosure is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the disclosure. The scope of the present application should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

