---

title: Collaborative network game using player rankings
abstract: The server device periodically calculates a contribution degree to a network game as an active level for each participating user during progress of the network game, so that a ranking for each user is determined and displayed. Furthermore, the server device adjusts a parameter for each participating user in accordance with the ranking determined during progress of the game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09333434&OS=09333434&RS=09333434
owner: DeNA Co., Ltd.
number: 09333434
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140311
---
The present application claims priority under 35 USC 119 from Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 048760 filed Mar. 12 2013 the contents of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a processing technology for a social game in which a plurality of users participate through a network.

In recent years a social game in which a plurality of users participate through a network using an SNS Social Networking Service is widespread. A network game in which information processing apparatuses such as PC Personal Computer terminals and portable terminals are used to communicate with a game server so that information is exchanged among users to facilitate communication with each other is provided.

In a so called network match game among such a network game for example users perform a battle against each other or users form a team with each other to perform a battle against an opponent team or a virtual enemy. For example JP 2006 192142 A discloses a network ranking system that performs ranking processing based on game scores of players who participate in such a match type network game.

However while such a ranking is linked to a predetermined bonus given when a network game is terminated participating users are not able to check the ranking until the network game is terminated. Accordingly there has been a problem that the participating users do not know how much degree is still needed to increase the ranking. As a result strategic elements of the game itself are significantly inhibited and therefore the network game becomes unlikely to be exited. There has been concern that an increase of such hardly exciting network games may threaten the future of the flourishing network game industry.

The present invention has been made in view of such a problem and an object of the present invention is to provide a server device a method and a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing game program which can further improve amusement by appropriately presenting a ranking to participating users even during progress of a network game.

An aspect of the present invention relates to a server device. The server device includes a game management unit that manages progress of a network game in which a plurality of users is allowed to participate through communication lines a ranking processing unit that calculates a contribution degree to the network game as an active level for each participating user during progress of the network game managed by the game management unit to determine a ranking a display control unit that allows the participating user to be displayed in accordance with the ranking determined by the ranking processing unit and a parameter adjustment unit that adjusts a user parameter stored for each participating user in accordance with the ranking determined by the ranking processing unit when the network game is terminated so as to become advantageous in terms of game progress in the next and subsequent network games.

According to such an aspect by calculating the contribution degree to a network game as an active level for each participating user during progress of the network game and determining a ranking the ranking can be appropriately presented to the participating user even during progress of the network game. Accordingly since the user can recognize how much degree is still needed to increase the ranking the game can be strategically progressed. Thus the network game can become more exited thereby contributing to the development of the network game industry.

The ranking processing unit may also determine a ranking at a periodical or predetermined timing as the network game progresses.

According to such an aspect by determining a ranking at a periodical or predetermined timing the ranking is changed periodically or in response to an event in the game. Therefore a real time ranking change can be presented to the game participating user at a more appropriate timing improving excitement of the game.

The parameter adjustment unit may also adjust a parameter for each participating user in accordance with the ranking determined during progress of the network game so that the network game can be advantageously progressed.

According to such an aspect by adjusting the parameter for each participating user in accordance with the ranking so that the network game can be advantageously progressed amusement of the network game can be more improved.

The parameter adjustment unit may also adjust the parameter so that when the ranking during progress of the network game is lower the network game can be progressed more advantageously.

According to such an aspect by adjusting the parameter so that when the ranking during progress of the network game is lower the network game can be progressed more advantageously reversal of the ranking can be facilitated. Accordingly since a tactical element between the users is strengthened amusement of the network game can be more improved.

The ranking processing unit may also calculate an active level based on at least one of the number of predetermined instructions from a user to a network game or the degree of an action which has promoted the progress of the game.

According to such an aspect by calculating the active level based on at least one of the number of predetermined instructions from a user to a network game or the degree of an action which has promoted the progress of a game the user can be more involved in the network game or the ranking for the user who has contributed to the network game can be improved. Therefore excitement of the network game can be improved.

Furthermore the game management unit may include a receiving unit that in a team formed by users having collaborative relationships with each other among users participating in a network game receives an instruction action for the same objective from the users belonging to the team for a predetermined limited time and an excitement level processing unit that calculates an excitement level based on a total amount of the instruction actions received by the receiving unit from each user within the same team. Here the game management unit may progress the network game depending on the excitement level calculated by the excitement level processing unit.

According to such an aspect by allowing the network game to progress depending on the excitement level calculated based on the total amount of the instruction actions from each user within the same team solidarity in the team can be improved while desires of the participating users to contribute to the team can be increased. Therefore excitement of the network game can be enhanced.

Furthermore the display control unit may allow the total amount of the instruction actions received by the receiving unit for a predetermined limited time to be displayed for each user.

According to such an aspect by allowing the total amount of the instruction actions received for a predetermined limited time to be displayed for each user a desire to make a contribution more than other users can be promoted for each participating user. Accordingly excitement of the network game can be enhanced.

Furthermore another aspect of the present invention is a method. This method includes managing progress of a network game in which a plurality of users is allowed to participate through communication lines calculating a contribution degree to the network game as an active level for each participating user during progress of the network game to determine a ranking displaying the participating user in accordance with the determined ranking adjusting a user parameter stored for each participating user in accordance with the ranking when the network game is terminated so as to become advantageous in terms of game progress in the next and subsequent network games.

Furthermore another aspect of the present invention is a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing game program. This non transitory computer readable storage medium storing game program is a program causing a computer to execute managing progress of a network game in which a plurality of users is allowed to participate through communication lines calculating a contribution degree to the network game as an active level for each participating user during progress of the network game to determine a ranking displaying the participating user in accordance with the determined ranking adjusting a user parameter stored for each participating user in accordance with the ranking when the network game is terminated so as to become advantageous in terms of game progress in the next and subsequent network games.

It should be noted that any combination of the above described constituent elements as well as any conversion of the expression in the present invention among a method a device a system a computer program and others are also effective as an aspect of the present invention.

According to the present invention by appropriately presenting a ranking to participating users at appropriate times also during progress of a network game amusement for a plurality of users participating in the game can be enhanced.

Before explaining examples of the present invention outlines of the present invention will be described first. The present invention relates to ranking processing for determining relative rankings among participating users in a network game performed by a plurality of users through a network.

In the conventional ranking processing rankings were calculated when a game was terminated and then presented to participating users. Based on this ranking result incentives such as bonus points and items which can be used during the game were provided to each participating user. However since the rankings were not be able to be checked during game play there has been a problem that for example in spite of being in a position where a reversal is nearly achieved the position is not known to a player causing an owned strong item which could contribute the reversal to remain unused.

As a result strategic elements of the game itself were significantly inhibited. Accordingly there has been a problem that the network game becomes unlikely to be exited. There has been concern that an increase of such hardly exciting network games may threaten the future of the flourishing network game industry.

In the present invention the above problems has been solved. By calculating and presenting the rankings also during game play at appropriate times information for participating in the game more strategically has come to be presented to the users. Thus amusement of each participating user has been enhanced and therefore exited network game environments can be provided.

The present invention will be explained using examples which are applied in a network game particularly in a social game.

Here the social game will be briefly explained. The social game refers to an application game soft that operates on a basis of a platform such as an API Application Programming Interface . The API generally operates on a web browser with SNS information. Hereinafter the social game is merely referred to as a browser game.

In the social game SNS information is used. An application program is downloaded to each terminal device operated by a user the downloaded application program is executed in each terminal device and various parameters are transmitted and received between each terminal device and the server device. Hereinafter the social game is merely referred to as an app game.

Here the following processing that is an example of the present invention can be performed in a server device which provides a game as a browser game or in a program that is executed as an app game on a terminal device side. Furthermore examples explained below are for facilitating understanding of the present invention and the technical range of the present invention is not limited to these examples.

First Example 1 will be explained. is a diagram illustrating a social game system according to Example 1 of the present invention. The social game system includes a server device a network that connects the server device with base stations by wired lines a first base station to a third base station represented by the base station a first mobile terminal to a third mobile terminal represented by a mobile terminal and a PC terminal .

Here although only three are illustrated as each of the base station and the mobile terminal in the diagram for convenience of illustration no limitation is made thereto and three or more base stations and mobile terminals may exist. The same applies to the PC terminal . Also although the first mobile terminal to the third mobile terminal are illustrated as being connected with different base stations no limitation is made thereto. It is clear that even when a plurality of mobile terminals is connected with one base station the present invention can be applied.

The server device is a device that performs and provides a social game service. The server device executes communication processing for game processing with the mobile terminal and the PC terminal through the network and the base station . Hereinafter for simple explanation an expression such as communication processing is executed between the server device and the mobile terminal or the PC terminal is used and a description regarding a fact that the communication processing is performed through the network and the base station is omitted. Also hereinafter the mobile terminal and the PC terminal are collectively expressed as a user terminal in some cases. Also the server device may be a platform providing service associated with a network game or a server providing an application of a network game.

The server communication unit communicates with an external SNS server device user terminal and others through the network . Here the server device may function also as the SNS server device. Therefore the SNS server device is not illustrated.

The user information management unit acquires user information registered in an SNS from the SNS server device as well as manages user information registered in a social game in the server memory . Also the user information management unit uploads user information containing the information acquired from the SNS server device to the server memory . The server memory stores card management data to be used in a network game in which a card is utilized as well as user information.

The user information is any one or a combination of user identification information a user name an avatar and a user input comment. The user information is used when the display control unit described below generates an image in a matching room. Thus an image which allows a user to visually recognize another user and enhances reality comes to be generated.

The user identification information is a unique code that identifies a user. The level is a level of a user that sequentially increases based on the number of participations in a game and an acquired experience point. The progress status is information indicating how far each user is proceeding with a game. The owned card identification information is various card identification information such as character cards to be utilized in a team battle and others.

Explanation will be returned to . The game management unit manages progress of a network game in which the plurality of users is allowed to participate through communication lines. Specifically the game management unit performs various processing such as progress of a social game and management of a quest. The game management unit accesses the user information and the card management data stored in the server memory during progress of a game to execute predetermined processing.

The game management unit also receives instructions from users belonging to the same team in a network match game performed on a team basis and calculates an excitement level . Although details will be described later the game management unit controls the progress of a network game in accordance with this excitement level .

The matching processing unit assigns users to a team based on a selected quest while generating matching information when a quest is selected from a user terminal and a participation request to a team battle is made. The matching processing unit integrates user information for each user whose participation request was received through the server communication unit and generates matching information among users participating in the same network game to be started at the same period of time. Furthermore the matching processing unit notifies each user terminal from which a participation request was received through the server communication unit of the generated matching information.

At this time the matching information transmitted to each user terminal differs for each user terminal that made a participation request. For example when participation requests are made to the same network game which will be started at the same period of time in a plurality of user terminals the matching processing unit generates matching information which differs for each of the notified terminal device so that the notified user terminal appears to have made a participation request at the earliest time regardless of the order of participation requests. The notified user terminal appears to have made a participation request at the earliest time includes that the notified user terminal is shown as the first participant regardless of its original participation order. For example participation order information may be forcibly set to be the first or the alignment order of user information in the matching information may be set so as to be always the top.

This matching information may be generated or notified in two steps so that a timing difference is provided in display of participating user information on a user terminal. According to such an aspect each participating user can recognize that each user himself or herself is the first participating user regardless of each participating timing. Details will be described later.

The matching processing unit may also allow the matching information to contain participation order information in which the notified terminal user information is set the first and to contain the second and subsequent user information in the earlier order of participation among the terminals other than the notified terminal. This participation order information may indicate a display order on the terminal. Accordingly even when the matching information is not transmitted a plurality of times an effect similar to the above described effect can be accomplished by transmitting matching information containing participation order information only once.

The matching information includes matched user information and may be a matching image itself. In the present example the display control unit is separately utilized to generate as a matching image an image of a matching room which is intended to represent a waiting room. The matching processing unit outputs the matching information to the display control unit .

The display control unit generates a matching room image as a matching image based on the matching image output from the matching processing unit . The generated matching room image is transmitted to each user terminal through the server communication unit .

Furthermore the display control unit allows a ranking for each participating user calculated by the ranking processing unit described later to be displayed while progress of a game is managed in the game management unit .

Furthermore the display control unit changes an aspect of display for the excitement level calculated in the game management unit depending on the degree of the level. In an aspect of display a color may be changed as the excitement level increases a color gradation may be changed a design size for indicating the excitement level may be changed or these may be combined.

Furthermore the display control unit may also allow the contribution degree of each participating user to the excitement level to be displayed. The contribution degree may be for example an amount of instruction actions from a participating user received during a predetermined limited time. Here the instruction actions may be for example frequency of touch to a touch panel magnitude of loudness input in a microphone or amplitude of vibration given to a user terminal.

Here in each user terminal an API as a web browser is utilized to display a matching room image. When the matching processing unit outputs the matching information directly to each user terminal through the server communication unit an API may be utilized to generate the matching room image on a terminal side. In this case the matching room image itself is not transmitted onto the network and parameter information is mainly subjected to data communication. This is suitable in a narrow network band environment.

The server communication unit receives signals from each user terminal and performs predetermined demodulation processing to transmit the demodulated signals to the user information management unit the game management unit the matching processing unit and the display control unit . The server communication unit also performs predetermined modulation processing to signals transmitted from the user information management unit the game management unit the matching processing unit and the display control unit to transmit the modulated signals to each user terminal. In this case as the modulation and demodulation processing in the server communication unit conventionally utilized modulation and demodulation technologies may be utilized. It is understood by those skilled in the art that even in such an aspect the present invention can be applied.

The ranking processing unit calculates during progress of a network game managed by the game management unit a degree of contribution to the network game as an active level for each participating user at a periodical or predetermined timing and then determines a ranking in the descending order of the active level .

The active level is a value calculated based on at least one of the number of predetermined instructions from a user to the network game or the degree of an action which has promoted the progress of the game.

The number of predetermined instructions may be for example the number of attacks to an attack target the number of special attacks such as finishing moves performed the frequency of use of an item or a combination thereof.

The degree of an action which has promoted the progress of the game may be for example a total amount of damage that a participating player caused to an opponent character the size of a maximum damage amount per attack the size of an average damage amount per attack or a combination of these multiple elements. For example the total damage amount the number of attacks and the frequency of use of an item each may be multiplied by a weight coefficient and then added to each other thereby to calculate the active level.

The parameter adjustment unit adjusts a user parameter stored for each participating user in accordance with a ranking determined by the ranking processing unit when the network game is terminated so as to become advantageous in terms of game progress in the next and subsequent network games. For example higher acquired experience value and acquired prize are provided to a user in a higher ranking position when the network game is terminated. Alternatively awards such as items may be provided only to a user positioned in a predetermined range from the highest rank.

The parameter adjustment unit may also adjust the parameter for each participating user in accordance with not only the ranking when the game is terminated but also a provisional ranking determined during progress of a network game so as to be advantageous in the network game in progress. For example in a case where a player s own attack turn comes after every predetermined waiting period during a battle against an opponent character the length of the waiting period may be adjusted among the participating users based on a difference in the total damage amount that has been caused to the opponent character.

The expression the parameter is adjusted so as to be advantageous in the network game in progress means for example that the parameter may be adjusted so that when the ranking during progress of the network game is lower the network game can be progressed more advantageously. For example when the ranking is lowered a bonus may be provided to a damage caused to an opponent so that a chance to reverse the ranking is provided. Also the above described waiting period that is a cycle in which an attack turn comes may be temporarily shortened. Accordingly the turnover of the ranking is promoted thereby further enhancing amusement.

Next the matching processing unit will be explained using . is a diagram illustrating a configuration example of the matching processing unit in . The matching processing unit includes a receiving unit a matching allocation unit and a matching information generation unit .

The receiving unit receives a participation request to a team battle concerning a network game in which one or more users can participate from each of user terminals used by a plurality of users through communication lines and the server communication unit . The receiving unit extracts parameters such as for which quest the participation request to a team battle is made who the user is and from which terminal the request is made. Then the parameters are stored in the server memory while the request is output to the matching allocation unit .

Furthermore the receiving unit receives comment information for each user terminal from which a participation request has been received and receives a search request for searching an enemy to allow the network game to progress. Details will be described later.

Here a brief explanation will be made using and . is a diagram illustrating a first screen display example of a user terminal in . is a diagram illustrating a second screen display example of a user terminal in . Here the screen display of a user terminal is used for facilitating understanding. These screen displays are generated by the display control unit under instructions from the game management unit and the matching processing unit of the server device and displayed on the screen of the user terminal. Although the configuration and action of a terminal will be described later and embodiments below will be explained based on an assumption that input manipulation is performed with a touch panel of a screen the manipulation may be performed by a mouse operation and others.

In a first screen display example there are displayed a user unique my page screen which is a basic screen of the social game a return button used when terminating a game various menu buttons other user avatars comment columns corresponding to the avatars and a hunt button that becomes a trigger to start a battle. In a second screen display example there are displayed a quest selection screen an avatar quest selection buttons in such a manner as being superimposed on the screen of the first screen display example .

When a user performs input manipulation to the hunt button while the first screen display example is displayed the screen is transited to the second screen display example illustrated in which is in a hunt mode and the quest selection screen appears. Here a hunt means a trigger to start a battle game.

In the hunt mode the avatar user name rank points to next rank remaining LP value LifePoint LP value gauge and others are displayed on the quest selection screen as information of a user who has performed input manipulation of the hunt button . Also the plurality of quest selection buttons appear and a user selects one of the buttons.

In this case each of the quests is different in the upper limit of the number of participants difficulty level acquired reward and others. In input manipulation a user select an appropriate quest considering a user s own status the strength of a deck and others. In each of the quest selection buttons the difficulty level acquired reward and others are displayed. In the quest a team including a plurality of users is organized and a team battle in which the team fights against an opponent character is performed.

The input manipulation of the quest selection button becomes a trigger to initiate communication of a user terminal with the server device so that a participation request is transmitted to the receiving unit .

Explanation will be returned to . The matching allocation unit performs processing of allocating each user having performed a participation request to a team in response to the input manipulation performed to the quest selection button . Then the matching allocation unit uploads the information to the server memory while outputting the information to the matching information generation unit . Such manipulation is continued until the number of participants for each quest reaches an upper limit.

The matching information generation unit generates matching information for each user terminal. The matching information is used to generate a matching room image to be transmitted to each user terminal based on the output from the matching allocation unit and the information in the server memory . Specifically an example as below are included.

In the above example information of users who have made participation requests to the same quest is listed in the order of a participation request performed from above. In this case when user 3 has made a participation request secondly information of user 1 comes to be contained before user 3 in the matching information. When a matching room image is thereafter generated based on the matching information an avatar of user 1 comes to be contained before user 3. Thus an impression that user 3 has participated in the team as a guest is left. As a countermeasure in the present embodiment even when users have made participation requests in the above order matching information for generating a matching room screen to be firstly transmitted to a terminal of user 3 is generated as below.

Here the matching information may contain information of a user participating in the quest information indicating a participating order past quest achievements and others. The information of a user may contain a user ID and a user name or an ID of a user matched in the past. The quest achievements may contain a cumulative point the number of wins the number of participations level information card information and others.

That is the matching information to be firstly transmitted to each user terminal always contains only the user s own information and information of other users is excluded.

The matching information for generating a matching room screen to be secondly transmitted to a terminal of user 3 is as below.

The matching information for generating a matching room screen to be thirdly transmitted to a terminal of user 3 is as below.

The above is matching information to be transmitted to user 3. The matching information to be transmitted to user 2 is as below.

That is the order of user information in the matching information is determined so that user information of the notified terminal takes the first place and user information of the terminals other than the notified terminal takes second and subsequent places in the earlier order of participation. Here the order of user information in the matching information may be randomly determined in second and subsequent places as long as user information of the notified terminal takes the first place.

As described above in the present embodiment information of a user operating the terminal is preferentially contained in matching information and the following matching information is generated such that information of each user is added one by one regardless of the order of participation requests.

However no limitation is made thereto and only user information which is a difference from that previously transmitted may be contained. Alternatively the second and subsequent matching information may be generated at a timing where the receiving unit receives a search request described later. Alternatively transmittance may not be performed every time the above described first to third matching information are generated and only matching information generated after the number of participants has reached a fixed number may be generated.

Even in such an aspect matching information can be indicated as if the notified user terminal had made a participation request at the earliest time. Thus the matching information allows each user participating in the game to recognize that the each user has first expressed his or her participation in the game. This promotes the user to make an independent and positive contribution to the team. Therefore the game is likely to be exited.

By generating matching information for each user terminal as described above each user feels that the each user has first entered in a matching room. Accordingly the user comes to be independent and try to boost the mood of a game. Therefore the user can enjoy an exciting game as a whole.

Furthermore since information of other users is not added at one time but is gradually added one by one expectations of a game are gradually increased. Thus a user feels a sense of exaltation and amusement of the game can be enhanced.

Here when the user information of the second and subsequent places is contained in the matching information consideration may be given on the order of priority. A brief explanation will be made below. The server memory of the server device has past history information that allows examination of a correlation among users. For example based on correlations of a frequency of team formation shortness of a count time from the latest date and time when a team is formed a degree of relationship on an SNS a character group type an attribute a level and others the level of affinity is judged. Then a user having high affinity is preferentially added in matching information. When such consideration is given information of users having made participation requests to some quest is pooled first. Among the information matching between the users is performed based on past history information which allows examination of correlations between the users described above.

By preferentially adding information of a user having high affinity the user operating the terminal feels as if an intimate friend had gathered in a hurry. Thus a sense of exaltation can be enhanced and amusement of the game can be enhanced. Furthermore since users having high affinity to each other are matched as the same team a possibility that exchanges are initiated between the users is increased. Thus exchanges between users can be more activated.

Here a screen displayed when matching information generated by the matching information generation unit is notified to a user terminal will be explained by using and . is a diagram illustrating a third screen display example of the user terminal in . is a diagram illustrating a fourth screen display example of the user terminal in . On the third screen display example and the fourth screen display example a battle participation announcement column a timer column a user information display column and a matching room image are displayed.

In the user information display column of the matching room image an avatar is displayed together with a comment as information of a user who has made a participation request to a team battle and have been allocated to the same team. Here in the matching room image there are displayed the battle participation announcement column in which a user name is displayed based on information of a user added most recently and the timer column in which a remaining time to a deadline of participation in a team battle is displayed.

As illustrated in the fourth screen display example of user information is sequentially displayed in the user information display column . Accordingly an avatar image and a comment are added to one another. In brief while only the user s own information is displayed at a remaining time of three minutes illustrated in the timer column in the third screen display example other users information are added at a remaining time of two minutes in the fourth screen display example . In this case whatever the order of participation requests by users is user information is displayed in such an order. It is noted that user information of a user who himself of herself views the matching room image does not need to be included in many cases. In such a case the user s own information does not need to be actively displayed in the matching room image . It should be understood that this is also included in the present embodiment.

Next processing performed in a user terminal after the quest selection button in the second screen display example illustrated in has been subjected to input manipulation will be explained by using . is a diagram illustrating a fifth screen display example of the user terminal in . On the fifth screen display example a menu image a member selection button an input column and a re selection button are displayed.

After the quest selection button of the second screen display example illustrated in has been subjected to input manipulation the screen display is transited to the fifth screen display example . On the transited screen display the member selection and comment input menu image are displayed. On the menu image there is displayed the member selection button which allows for selection of limitation of members forming a team.

In the fifth screen display example two buttons are displayed as the member selection button . A user can select either mode of Limit to friends in an SNS or Anyone is OK . Furthermore there is the input column in which a greeting can be input. By inputting the greeting comment a friendship can be developed. There is also displayed the re selection button for processing of re selecting a quest. When the re selection button has been subjected to input manipulation manipulation to return to the quest selection screen illustrated in is performed.

Here when the Anyone is OK mode is selected with the member selection button users who have selected the same quest selection button during a predetermined time are allocated to the same team with each other. However when the number of users making a participation request to the team battle has reached a team maximum number the team allocation terminates and the team battle game progresses. When the upper limit of participants to the team battle has not been reached and the deadline of participation has come a so called NPC Non Player Character instead of a general user may be replenished to proceed with the game. This is because in a state of vacancy the fighting strength of a team can be reduced thereby to impair progress of the game or a sense of exaltation of the user can be inhibited.

Next when input manipulation of the member selection button and a comment to the input column have been made in a user terminal the comment is displayed in an aspect of corresponding to the avatar image corresponding to the user terminal where the comment has been input in the matching room image as illustrated in the third screen display example of and the fourth screen display example of or in a below described comment scroll column of on each user terminal participating in the team battle.

A plurality of buttons for a team battle such as a search button are displayed in the matching room image to allow for input manipulation. By performing input manipulation of the search button in the matching room a user finally finds an opponent character and enters a battle game by the formed team.

It should be noted that the second screen display example and the third screen display example illustrated in and respectively are in the different aspect from a third screen display example illustrated in . Although the matching room image is displayed in all of these examples the information of users having performed a participation request to a team battle is arranged so that for example avatars and comments are combined and aligned in the second screen display example and the third screen display example .

Specifically information of users having made a participation request to a team battle is sequentially displayed as for example the avatar in the team member display column and the comment is displayed in the comment scroll columns and so as to be automatically scrolled. When the comment is displayed processing may be made so that for example the avatar corresponding to the user terminal in which the comment has been input blinks and so on. Thus the comment overlay displayed on the matching room image comes to flow improving a dramatic effect.

In another aspect during a waiting time before a team battle is started a user may enjoy a conversation with other users while having a chat with a comment in the matching room inhibiting each user from being bored during the waiting time.

Here actions performed by a waiting user in the matching room will be specifically explained. A user can perform for example a mission game where the user searches a field by performing input manipulation of the search button . This is for inhibiting a user from being bored by allowing the user to perform an entertainment during a time before a team battle is started. In such a mission game a user can obtain various game contents such as experience points in game currency cards and items. Each time a user performs input manipulation of the search button other users gradually join in a team.

In this case such an entertainment is not limited to a mission game but may be a quiz game and a shooting game. Also while performing a mission game and others a display previously teaching information of an opponent to fight against from now like Analyzing . . . Result of analysis Data of your opponent is . . . the weak point is . . . may appear. By performing such processing a waiting time on the matching room screen becomes more meaningful and user s interests in a game can be enhanced.

Next a case of entering a team battle mode will be explained by using . is a diagram illustrating a seventh screen display example of the user terminal in . The seventh screen display example is an example where an opponent character image a battle image and an attack button are displayed.

In the team battle mode the opponent character image is displayed in a column of the battle image . The seventh screen display example is different from the matching room screen in that the search button does not exist and instead the attack button allowing for initiation of an attack against an opponent character is displayed. Each user performs input manipulation of the attack button to proceed with a battle for example to perform an attack against an opponent character.

Here a display example when ranking processing has been performed in the server device of is explained by using . As described above the seventh screen display example illustrated in is an example of a screen displayed on a user terminal when having entered the team battle mode.

As described above in this seventh screen display example the avatars of participating users are displayed in the team member display column . At this time the display control unit realigns the order of the avatars to be displayed according to the ranking determined by the ranking processing unit . The timing of realignment is synchronized with the timing of update of the ranking by the ranking processing unit . Therefore a real time order can be presented to participating users.

In the seventh screen display example the avatars of participating users are displayed from the left end of the team member display column in the descending order of damage given to an opponent character at that time. A display method of a ranking is not limited to the above described case. For example the number indicating a ranking may be displayed on an icon of a participating user the color of a background of an icon may be changed according to a ranking a frame may be formed thicker or any of these may be combined.

Furthermore there may be two or more evaluation axes for a ranking calculated by the ranking processing unit . For example when the ranking based on a total damage amount given to an opponent character and the ranking of the number of attacks exist the display control unit may allow the ranking to be displayed from the left end of the team member display column in the order based on the total damage amount given to an opponent character while displaying the number in the upper right of an icon in the order of the player having performed more attacks. According to such an aspect a ranking can be displayed from a plurality of viewpoints at a time. Therefore user s eagerness can be elicited from various viewpoints.

The second receiving unit receives an instruction action for the same objective from a user belonging to a team formed with users being in a cooperative relationship with each other among users participating in a network game for a predetermined limited time. The instruction action for the same objective includes an instruction to an opponent character common among the users related to an attack for defeating the opponent character. The instruction related to an attack includes an action of rapidly hitting a touch panel an action of using a certain item and others.

The excitement level processing unit calculates an excitement level in accordance with a total amount of instruction actions received by the second receiving unit from each user in the same team. In accordance with the calculated excitement level the game management unit proceeds with the network game. The total amount of instruction actions from users may be a total amount of damage to an opponent character by participating users. In calculation of the excitement level calculation may be performed on 1 how many players caused 2 how much damage for example every five seconds. Then an increased amount of a gauge of the excitement level may be accordingly controlled.

Here when the excitement level exceeds a predetermined value the game management unit may allow to move to a CONCERTED ATTACK BY ALL mode . In this case the second receiving unit sets a certain limited period and receives the number of rapid hits of a tap from participating users. The game management unit may provide after expiration of the limited period a damage amount corresponding to a total of the number of rapid hits to an opponent character bonus points to participating users bonus points to a participating user having most contributed to an increase of the excitement level or any combination thereof.

Next a display example when having performed processing related to the excitement level in the second receiving unit and the excitement level processing unit of will be explained by using to .

The weight gauge displayed in the eighth screen display example is a column for visually displaying the length of a waiting period that is one of the parameters adjusted for each participating user by the parameter adjustment unit . The display control unit allows the length of the waiting period to be displayed with the length of the gauge in the weight gauge and as the waiting period is consumed the gauge may be displayed to be shortened. As described above participating users cannot perform the next attack until the waiting period displayed in the weight gauge is completely consumed. After the attack the waiting period is cleared and a waiting state continues until the waiting period is consumed to 0 again.

The excitement level gauge displayed in the eighth screen display example to the tenth screen display example is a column for indicating the magnitude of the excitement level processed by the excitement level processing unit .

The excitement level processing unit calculates an excitement level in accordance with a total amount of instruction actions received by the second receiving unit from each user in the same team and instructs the display control unit to change an aspect of the display of the excitement level gauge . The change of an aspect of the display of the excitement level gauge may be made by processing of changing color changing the size of a gauge and so on.

Here when the excitement level exceeds a predetermined value the game management unit instructs as the CONCERTED ATTACK BY ALL mode the display control unit to allow the ninth screen display example to be displayed. The second receiving unit of the game management unit counts the number of taps by participating users on the position of the rapidly hitting button displayed in the ninth screen display example for a predetermined period. This count is processed for a predetermined period for each user. In the CONCERTED ATTACK BY ALL mode a chance of rapidly hitting the button for three seconds is provided to all participating users.

Then after the CONCERTED ATTACK BY ALL mode is terminated the number of rapid hits for each participating user is displayed as illustrated in the member rapidly hitting number and the user rapidly hitting number of the tenth screen display example . Then a design indicating a full scale attack by all team members against an opponent character is displayed and damage corresponding to the number of rapid hits by participating users is given to an opponent character. At this time when the number of rapid hits by one participating user coincides with the number of rapid hits by another participating user the game management unit may generate a bonus to increase damage given to the opponent character.

Next a configuration on the user terminal side will be explained by using . is a diagram illustrating a configuration example in the mobile terminal or the PC terminal in . Here for convenience of explanation a configuration of the mobile terminal will be explained but the PC terminal may also have the same configuration.

The mobile terminal includes a terminal communication unit a terminal control unit a user interface and a terminal memory . The terminal communication unit receives an app downloaded from the server device and various information transmitted from the server device .

The terminal control unit receives an instruction from a user through the user interface and controls installation of an app and an API of a social game while accessing the terminal memory .

The user interface includes a screen interface for displaying various screens such as a message to a user and a social game matching room screen an input interface that receives an input from a user such as a keyboard and a touch panel and an image photographing member such as a camera.

The user interface receives selection of a quest from a user which is a team battle participation request various comment inputs action button manipulation and others and then transmits these to the terminal control unit .

When an app game has been downloaded from an app providing platform the terminal memory is used for storing the downloaded app program. In case of a browser game the terminal memory is also used as a cash memory for temporarily storing image data and so on.

Hereinafter a general operation of a user terminal assuming a browser game will be explained as an example of an operation when the user A makes a participation request to a team battle.

When the user A starts up a web browser and selects a social game site the terminal control unit communicates with the server device through use of the terminal communication unit to receive data of the selected social game in a format of operating on the web browser and execute the data.

Although a guide for a login procedure to a social game is displayed on the user interface in some cases explanation for such a case is omitted for simplification here and explanation will be made assuming that a social game has been started.

The first screen display example illustrated in is displayed on the user interface and the user A performs input manipulation to the hunt button . The terminal control unit communicates with the server device through use of the terminal communication unit to download the quest selection screen illustrated in . Then the terminal control unit allows the downloaded screen to be stored in the terminal memory and the quest selection screen to be displayed on the user interface .

Next the user A performs input manipulation to the quest selection button . The terminal control unit communicates with the server device through use of the terminal communication unit to transmit information that the quest selection button has been input which is a participation request to a team battle to the server device and to download from the server device the menu image illustrated in . Then the terminal control unit allows the downloaded menu image to be stored in the terminal memory and the downloaded menu image to be displayed on the user interface .

Next the user A performs comment input manipulation to the comment input column and then input manipulation to the member selection button . The terminal control unit communicates with the server device through use of the terminal communication unit to transmit the comment information and member selection information input to the server device and to download from the server device the matching room image illustrated in . Then the terminal control unit allows the downloaded matching room image to be stored in the terminal memory and the matching room image to be displayed on the user interface .

Here even when other users having selected the same quest exist in a stage of having received a participation request to a team battle from a terminal of the user A when generating the matching room image the server device transmits the information to the user terminal such that other users information is not contained in the matching room image .

Next the matching room image is displayed and the user A performs input manipulation to the search button . The terminal control unit communicates with the server device through use of the terminal communication unit to download from the server device for example image tailored to a mission game corresponding to the search button . Then the terminal control unit allows the downloaded screen to be stored in the terminal memory and the image tailored to a mission game to be displayed on the user interface .

Next when there exist information of other users having made a participation request to the same quest to the server device in a state that the user A is displayed in the matching room image the server device may transmit the information to the user terminal such that other user s information is contained together with the user A in the matching room image as illustrated in when generating the matching room image .

Next the terminal control unit communicates with the server device through use of the terminal communication unit to download from the server device the matching room image illustrated in . Then the terminal control unit allows the downloaded matching room image to be stored in the terminal memory and the matching room image to be displayed on the user interface .

Next on lapse of the reception time of a participation request to a team battle the server device transmits to the user terminal the opponent character image and the battle image containing information of users participating in the team battle.

Next the terminal control unit communicates with the server device through use of the terminal communication unit to download from the server device the opponent character image illustrated in . Then the terminal control unit allows the downloaded opponent character image to be stored in the terminal memory and the opponent character image to be displayed on the user interface .

Next when the user A performs input manipulation to the attack button information that an attack is performed is transmitted to the server device and then battle processing progresses in the server device . Thereafter an operation is repeated based on the manipulation of the user A until a battle is terminated and the server device transmits to a user terminal an image of the opponent character image and the battle image containing an HP consumption of the opponent character.

First the matching processing unit receives a participation request to a team battle made by the user A and other users from a user terminal through the server communication unit S . The participation request is made as previously described by manipulation of the quest selection buttons . When a participation request is made the participation request is stored to the server memory together with user information and terminal information.

Here determination is made on whether or not the matching information or the matching room image in this quest is transmitted to the user A having made the participation request received for the first time based on the record in the server memory . When it is transmitted for the first time Yes in S matching information is generated without containing information of other users S . On the other hand when it is not transmitted for the first time No in S matching information is generated in such a manner as containing information of for example the user having made a participation request firstly among other users having made a participation request to a team battle S . At this time users having high affinity with the user A may be extracted from other users having made a participation request to a team battle using past history information which allows to consult the correlation among the users so that matching information is generated in such a manner as containing information of one user among the extracted users.

Next the generated matching information is transmitted to the user terminal of the user A S . Here alternatively the matching room image can be generated based on the matching information and transmitted to a user terminal as described above.

Lastly the matching processing unit determines whether or not the matching is to be terminated for example whether or not the matching time has lapsed or whether or not the number of participants to the team battle has reached an upper limit When it is to be terminated Yes in S the processing is terminated. When it is not to be terminated No in S the processing of repeating the flow until the termination conditions are satisfied is performed.

First the game management unit checks whether or not the timing to calculate an active level has come S . When the timing has not come No in S the processing moves to S. On the other hand when the calculation timing has come Yes in S the game management unit calculates an active level for each participating user S . Furthermore the game management unit performs ranking display in accordance with the calculated active level S . The game management unit instructs the parameter adjustment unit to adjust a parameter for each participating user in accordance with the active level for each participating user S and allows to move to game termination determination processing S .

When the game is determined not to be terminated yet in the processing of S No in S the flow returns to the processing of S. On the other hand when the game is determined to have been terminated Yes in S the game management unit allows the parameter adjustment unit to adjust a parameter for each participating user in accordance with the ranking when the game is terminated S .

Explanation has been made corresponding to each aspect and as described above matching processing is performed so that the matching information indicating a team matching state or the matching image the matching room image displayed on a terminal side leads each user to feel that the each user himself or herself has participated in the team first. Accordingly there can be obtained effects that independence of the user to a social game is significantly improved promoting active participation of each user to this social game so that the whole game becomes exciting and interesting.

In the above embodiments according to the present invention has been explained based on examples. The present invention is not limited to the above described examples and contents thereof and can be variously modified and practiced within the range of the gist of the present invention. The above described examples are provided for illustrative purposes. It is understood by persons skilled in the art that various variations are possible in a combination of each constituent and each processing process in the examples and such variations are also within the scope of the present invention.

