---

title: Systems and methods for managing a wireless network
abstract: An embodiment method of managing a wireless network includes managing an infrastructure topology for the wireless network. The wireless network includes a plurality of network nodes. The method further includes managing a connection of a user equipment (UE) to the wireless network. The method further includes managing a customer service provided to the UE over the connection. The method also includes managing analytics for the wireless network and the service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09532266&OS=09532266&RS=09532266
owner: HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.
number: 09532266
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140605
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 831 471 titled Framework for Management Plane Functionality and Interfaces filed on Jun. 5 2013 which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to wireless network architecture and in particular embodiments to a system and method for managing a wireless network.

Driven largely by smart phones tablets and video streaming the amount of wireless data handled by wireless networks has risen markedly and is expected to continue to rise by orders of magnitude over the next ten years. In addition to the sheer volume of data the number of devices is expected to continue to grow exponentially possibly reaching into the billions of devices along with radically higher data rates. Different applications will place different requirements on the performance of future wireless networks. Future wireless networks are expected to be highly flexible highly efficient open and customizable for customers and consumers.

An embodiment method of managing a wireless network includes managing an infrastructure topology for the wireless network. The wireless network includes a plurality of network nodes. The method further includes managing a connection of a user equipment UE to the wireless network. The method further includes managing a customer service provided to the UE over the connection. The method also includes managing analytics for the wireless network and the service.

An embodiment computing system for managing a wireless network includes a customer service manager a connectivity manager a data analyzer and an infrastructure manager. The customer service manager is configured to authorize access to the wireless network by UEs according to respective customer service information. The customer service manager is further configured to negotiate a respective quality of experience QoE for each of the UEs according to respective locations of the UEs the respective customer service information and respective session requests for which respective virtual networks VNs are established by a control plane. The connectivity manager is configured to track respective locations of the UEs and update the respective VNs to which the UEs are connected. The data analyzer is configured to generate a congestion and traffic report according to network status reports received periodically from network nodes attached to the wireless network. The data analyzer is further configured to generate a QoE status according to QoE reports received periodically from the UEs. The infrastructure manager is configured to adapt a topology for the wireless network according to the topology and the congestion and traffic report.

An embodiment communication system includes a control plane a data plane and a management plane. The control plane is configured to make network resource management decisions for customer service traffic over a wireless network. The data plane includes network nodes arranged in a topology and configured to forward network traffic according to the traffic management decisions. The management plane includes a customer service manager a connectivity manager a data analyzer and an infrastructure manager. The customer service manager is configured to authorize access to the wireless network by UEs according to respective customer service information. The customer service manager is further configured to negotiate a respective QoE for each of the UEs according to respective locations of the UEs the respective customer service information and respective session requests for which respective VNs are established by the control plane. The connectivity manager is configured to track respective locations of the UEs and update the respective VNs to which the UEs are connected. The data analyzer is configured to generate a congestion and traffic report according to network status reports received periodically from the network nodes. The data analyzer is further configured to generate a QoE status according to QoE reports received periodically from the UEs. The infrastructure manager is configured to adapt the topology according to the topology and the congestion and traffic report.

The making and using of embodiments are discussed in detail below. It should be appreciated however that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts that may be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not limit the scope of the invention.

The advent of cloud based networking has complicated the ability of future wireless networks to satisfy expected demands for higher throughput lower latencies lower energy lower costs and drastically more numerous connections. Cloud based networking fundamentally redefines the endpoints and the time frame for which network services are provisioned. It requires the network be much more nimble flexible and scalable. Thus technologies such as network function virtualization NFV and software defined networking SDN have become increasingly important in building future wireless networks. NFV enables network functions that are traditionally tied to hardware to run on a cloud computing infrastructure in a data center. Although the separation of the data plane the control plane and the management plane may not be feasible in the commercial cloud the separation of those network functions from the hardware infrastructure will be a cornerstone of future wireless network architectures. One benefit is the ability to elastically support network functional demands. SDN is an architectural framework for creating intelligent programmable networks where the control planes and the data planes are decoupled network intelligence and state are logically centralized and the underlying network infrastructure is abstracted from the application.

It is realized herein that a framework is needed for future wireless network operation that comprehends the prevalence of virtual networks and centralized control of resources. A virtual network VN is a collection of resources virtualized for a given service. It is realized herein that a framework of management plane functionality is needed to guide design and implementation of future wireless networks. It is further realized herein the framework can identify management plane functionality include management plane interfaces and include operation procedures. Management plane functionality can include infrastructure management device connectivity management customer service management and status analysis management among other functionality.

Infrastructure management functionality provides management capability for infrastructure topology adaptation according to network congestion and traffic load. Infrastructure management functionality allows integration of wireless networks of multiple providers. It also provides for spectrum management of a radio access network RAN and spectrum sharing among various co located wireless networks. Infrastructure management also includes access MAP management and air interface management.

Device connectivity management functionality provides management capability for per device attachment to the wireless network including media access control MAC status location tracking and paging. Device connectivity management functionality includes defining customized and scenario aware location tracking schemes. Device connectivity management functionality also provides for a software defined and virtual per mobile user geographic location tracking entity and a triggering of user specific data plane topology updates. Device connectivity management functionality also provides user specific virtual network migration and location tracking as a service LTaaS . A UE s location is relative to the network or more specifically relative to a set of potential network nodes that could provide network access to the UE. LTaaS provides UE location tracking and location information to the UE s home operator or a global UE location information management center which is generally managed by a third party. The information can then be accessed and used by other operators VN operators and others.

Customer service management functionality provides management capability for customers private information authorization of device access device security and negotiation of service quality of experience QoE . Customer service management functionality includes per service QoE management as well as charging services. Customer service management functionality also provides customer specific context for connections and services. This includes QoE monitoring charging and billing.

Status analysis management functionality provides management capability for on demand network status analysis and QoE assurance. More specifically status analysis management functionality provides for management of on demand network status analytics management of on demand service QoE status analytics and data analytics as a service DAaaS .

It is further realized herein the management plane functionality required in a wireless network can vary among devices and can depend on a device s state. The various devices in a wireless network include customer devices i.e. user equipment UE and operator nodes i.e. base stations or radio nodes. It is realized herein that a customer device can be powered on or off and while on can be active or idle all of which is referred to as the customer device s state. It is also realized herein that an operator node can also be powered on or off and while on can be active idle or inactive. Furthermore an operator node s state can vary among its respective subsystems. For example an operator node s access subsystem may be active idle or inactive while powered on while the operator node s backhaul subsystem may be active or inactive. Similarly the operator node s sensor subsystem may be active or inactive while powered on.

While in an active state a UE continuously searches and monitors for feedback channel quality indicators CQI . A continuous process is one that is carried out at every transmission interval. For example if the transmission interval is 1 millisecond then the UE searches and monitors periodically where the period is 1 millisecond. The UE also continuously sends signals enabling uplink UL CQI estimation. On the network side while the UE is active a VN active is established. The configuration of the VN active depends on the UE s mobility required QoE and network status. Also while the UE is active the network maintains contexts above and below layer 2 including automatic repeat request ARQ and hybrid ARQ HARQ below and flow service ID mapping to ID defined in the access link AL location states authentication keys sessions and QoE above.

While in an idle state the UE has an idle state ID and remains attached to the network. The UE continuously searches and monitors the network for measurement purposes and location updates. The UE may also perform mobility monitoring tracking and location synchronization with the network. In certain embodiments the UE carries out network monitoring conditionally. The UE also transmits and receives short data bursts without going back to active state. On the network side while the UE is idle a VN idle is established. The configuration of the VN idle depends on the UEs mobility required QoE and network status. The VN idle can have no dedicated physical network resources or can have partially dedicated physical network resources for example between a user specific virtual serving gateway v u SGW and other gateways GWs .

Architecture also includes various databases that are occasionally accessed by management plane in carrying out its functionalities. These databases include a privacy network database a customer service information database a customer device information database an infrastructure database and an infrastructure abstraction database . Privacy network database is a repository for topology information node capabilities states and security information. Customer service information database is a repository for authentication and security information related to customer devices i.e. UEs. Customer device information database is a repository for capabilities locations and states of customer devices. Infrastructure database is a repository for network topology node capabilities and states. Infrastructure abstraction database is a repository for various infrastructure abstractions within the wireless network.

In architecture management plane provides various functionalities through respective control blocks including an infrastructure manager a data analyzer a customer service manager and a connectivity manager . Management plane in certain embodiments can provide additional functionalities such as content service management which is responsible for defining content caches in the radio access network RAN configuring cache capable network nodes and managing content forwarding.

Infrastructure manager is responsible for integrating network nodes from various wireless network providers. Infrastructure manager is also responsible for spectrum management for RAN backhaul links and access networks as well as spectrum sharing among co located wireless networks. Infrastructure manager also provides access map management and air interface management among other functionalities. Data analyzer is responsible for data analytics related to the wireless network. These analytics include managing on demand network status managing on demand QoE and providing data analytics as a service DAaaS among other functionalities. Customer service manager is responsible for customer aspects of service including QoE charging and customer information among other functionalities. Connectivity manager is responsible for location tracking and synchronization pushing topology updates to users VN migration and providing location tracking as a service LTaaS among other functionalities.

Infrastructure manager data analyzer customer service manager and connectivity manager can be implemented in one or more processors one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGAs dedicated logic circuitry or any combination thereof all collectively referred to as a processor. The respective functions for Infrastructure manager data analyzer customer service manager and connectivity manager can be stored as instructions in non transitory memory for execution by the processor.

The operation of the subsystems of network node varies with each subsystems current state. An access subsystem while active carries out continuous downlink DL transmissions discontinuous radio frequency RF transmissions e.g. pilots and reference signals and continuously receiving and monitoring UL transmissions. In the idle state the access subsystem carries out no DL RF transmissions but continuously carries out UL receiving and monitoring. While inactive the access subsystem shuts down RF activity including DL and UL.

A backhaul subsystem in the active state carries out RF transmissions and continuously receives and monitors RF transmissions. While inactive the backhaul subsystem shuts down RF activity. Similarly a sensor subsystem sometimes referred to as an out of band sensor subsystem carries out continuous and discontinuous RF transmissions and continuously receives and monitors RF transmissions while active. While inactive the sensor subsystem shuts down RF activity.

The bus may be one or more of any type of several bus architectures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus video bus or the like. The CPU may comprise any type of electronic data processor. The memory may comprise any type of non transitory system memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM read only memory ROM a combination thereof or the like. In an embodiment the memory may include ROM for use at boot up and DRAM for program and data storage for use while executing programs.

The mass storage may comprise any type of non transitory storage device configured to store data programs and other information and to make the data programs and other information accessible via the bus . The mass storage may comprise for example one or more of a solid state drive hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive or the like.

The video adapter and the I O interface provide interfaces to couple external input and output devices to the processing unit . As illustrated examples of input and output devices include a display coupled to the video adapter and a mouse keyboard printer coupled to the I O interface . Other devices may be coupled to the processing unit and additional or fewer interface cards may be utilized. For example a serial interface such as Universal Serial Bus USB not shown may be used to provide an interface for a printer.

The processing unit also includes one or more network interfaces which may comprise wired links such as an Ethernet cable or the like and or wireless links to access nodes or different networks. The network interfaces allow the processing unit to communicate with remote units via the networks. For example the network interfaces may provide wireless communication via one or more transmitters transmit antennas and one or more receivers receive antennas. In an embodiment the processing unit is coupled to a local area network or a wide area network for data processing and communications with remote devices such as other processing units the Internet remote storage facilities or the like.

While this invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications and combinations of the illustrative embodiments as well as other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description. It is therefore intended that the appended claims encompass any such modifications or embodiments.

