---

title: (Nx2)-channel bit communication system
abstract: A noise and interference tolerant bit communication system, which requires no conventional modulation/demodulation, with its' associated digital-hardware-implemented mechanisms for bit transmission, bit reception, and channel balancing; are presented, where electrical, photonic, or EM pulses (signals); representing binary information bits; are carried from a transmitter point over an (Nx2)-channel transmission medium, to a receiver point. The binary value of a transmitted pulse is identified at the receiver by means of the actual channel the pulse is travelling through. For example, if at a given time, any pulse transmitted and received through the first channel represents logic one, while any pulse transmitted and received through the second channel represents logic zero; thus reducing pulse's binary state representation per channel from two to one. The proposed system is capable of error-free communication at any signal-to-noise plus interference ratio value greater than zero.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08885759&OS=08885759&RS=08885759
owner: 
number: 08885759
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140610
---
The current invention is in the field of digital communications. More specifically the present invention is noise and interference tolerant bit communication system over a balanced Nx2 channel transmission medium.

In communication systems Noise is random energy that interferes with the information signal during demodulation at the receiver. Noise may be defined as any unwanted introduction of energy tending to interfere with the proper reception and reproduction of a modulated transmitted signal. In a fundamental communication system receiver noise may produce errors at receiver output. Noise may limit the speed and range of communication systems.

Electrical noise in specific may be any undesirable energy that falls within the passband of the signal. There are two general categories of noise Correlated Noise implies relationship between the signal and the noise exist only when signal is present and Uncorrelated Noise present at all time whether there is a signal or not.

Although not limited to Correlated Noise may be classified as follows i INTERFERENCE An unwanted energy correlated with the main signal. Interference at a certain level will corrupt the information signal. ii SWITCHING NOISE Generated by the operation of the very basic electrical electronic and transmission devices which form a communication system. The on off switching of communication devices may introduce correlated noise.

ATMOSPHERIC NOISE Caused by lightning discharges in thunderstorms and other natural electric disturbances occurring in the atmosphere consisting of spurious radio signal with components distributed over a wide range of frequencies. It propagates over the earth in the same way as ordinary radio waves of the same frequencies and becomes less severe at frequencies above 30 MHz because The higher frequencies are limited to line of sight propagation. Nature of the mechanism generating this noise is such that very little of it is created in the Very High Frequency VHF range and above.

EXTRATERRESTRIAL NOISE SOLAR NOISE A constant noise radiation from the sun radiates over a very broad frequency spectrum.

COSMIC NOISE Stars radiate RF noise in the same manner of sun. The noise received is called thermal noise and distributed fairly uniformly over the entire sky.

INDUSTRIAL NOISE Is between 1 to 600 MHz the intensity noise made by humans easily outstrips that created by any other source to the receiver Sources such as automobile aircraft electric motors and other heavy machine . The nature of industrial noise is so variable that it is difficult to analyze.

SHOT NOISE Caused by the random arrival of carriers at the output element of an electronic device. First observed in the anode current of a vacuum tube amplifier the current carriers are not moving in continuous steady flow randomly varying and superimposed onto any signal present. This type of noise is sometimes called transistor noise.

THERMAL NOISE Is associated with the rapid and random movement of electrons within a conductor due to thermal agitation and present in all electronic component and communications systems and referred to as white noise which is a form of additive noise that cannot be eliminated. It increases in intensity with the number of devices in a circuit.

Thermal noise power is proportional to the product of bandwidth and temperature. Mathematically noise power is N KTB N noise power K Boltzmann s constant 1.38 10 23 J K B bandwidth T absolute temperature Kelvin 17 C. or 290K .

In general since demodulation is always a function of the received signal and the noise higher modulated data transmission speeds require higher Signal to Noise Ratio SNR values at receiver end. Thus as one major factor higher data speeds are mainly impeded by higher noise across the communication channel between transmitter and a receiver. For high speed communication high SNR ratios are required such that data can be transmitted while maintaining the data receiver to function at acceptable levels of Bit Error Rate BER during demodulation.

A noise and interference tolerant modulation free two channel bit communication system is presented wherein 

In one embodiment a bit communication system for carrying binary information between two ends over two channel transmission medium Nx2 N 1 or multiple versions of a two channel system connected in parallel Nx2 N 1 is presented. The presented system consists of two ends Point A and point B . The two ends may or may not be synchronized. Also the two ends are connected via two channel medium Nx2 N 1 or multiples of the same medium Nx2 N 1 as parallel interconnected versions of the proposed system. Each end is also capable of performing bit transmission and bit reception according to the bit transmission and reception digital hardware implemented mechanisms proposed herein. The two ends are also capable of jointly performing channel balancing for the Nx2 channels. The presented system defines N as a positive integer wherein N is always greater or equals to one and in the presentation herein N is equated to a value of one. For more clarity for any value of N 1 means that there are N number of parallel connected versions of the proposed bit communication system for the purpose of yet faster data transmission.

In a fundamental digital communication system a single channel e.g. main carrier transmission medium is sufficient for the transmission and reception of two binary states 0 and 1 by generating at least two separate sub channels of the main single channel main carrier by means of modulation e.g. Frequency Shift Keying FSK etc. please see prior art Cui and Xiong EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking 2011 206 obtained from http jwcn.eurasipjournals.com content pdf 1687 1499 2011 206.pdf US2008 0036545A1 and US2002 0094783A1. Whereas the extraction of one or more sub channels from the main carrier requires a process of demodulation where the critical part the error prone multiplication process of such an extraction process takes place before the energy summation process in a demodulator e.g. FSK demodulation . In demodulation the bit error rate BER at the receiver side follows an error function of the demodulation process such that BER is a function of among other parameters received signal power main carrier bandwidth and more importantly noise possibly coupled with interference . The presented system requires two independent channels transmission medium e.g. two main resources to reduce the number of binary state representation per independent channel resource from two to one such that modulation demodulation is not required hence BER at receiver end will no longer be an error function of the demodulation process thus the effect of noise is mitigated. This is achieved by dedicating one of the two channels for carrying bits representing one specific binary state while dedicating the other channel for carrying bits representing the other binary state thus increasing the tolerance of noise in the transmission medium resulting in error free bit reception as long as received bit amplitude in one channel is higher by any margin than noise amplitude in the other channel.

For bit transmission and reception between two ends the presented system allows during any clock cycle one pulse to be transmitted in one of the two channels depending on the state of the transmitted bit pulse while nothing is transmitted simultaneously on the other channel i.e. non transmitting channel then at the receiving end the received bit pulse power and received noise and interference power values are compared by an application specific received power value comparator herein after power value comparator or comparator and the transmitted bit is reconstructed on the receiving end. Hence the presented system allows for error free bit transmission BER 0 at receiving end as long as during any clock cycle bit power even if coupled with noise and interference is higher in one channel by any margin than noise power possibly coupled with interference in the other channel within the same Nx2 channel transmission medium provided that the two channels are balanced in terms of signal propagation delay and attenuation. Therefore in the presence of noise and interference striking all channels transmitting or non transmitting channels then at the receiving end the present invention with only two independent channels is advantageous over prior art in terms of noise and interference tolerance rather than interference detection only please see GB2139788A JPS5294701 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 351 273 . This advantage is also true when compared to the effect of interference on non transmitting or transmitting sub channels of a communication systems employing modulation demodulation.

In another embodiment the digital hardware implemented bit transmission mechanism of the proposed Nx2 channel communication system is presented wherein at any clock cycle relative to the transmitting end if an instruction to transmit a bit representing logic 0 is executed then a pulse of a finite duration will be transmitted through the dedicated channel for logic 0 within the transmission medium while during the same clock cycle nothing will be transmitted through other channel representing logic 1 within the same transmission medium. Whereas if an instruction to transmit a bit representing logic 1 is executed then a pulse of a finite duration will be transmitted through the dedicated channel for logic 1 within the transmission medium meanwhile during the same clock cycle of the transmitting end nothing will be transmitted through other channel representing logic 0 within the same transmission medium. The transmitted pulse may be in any form of energy electrical photonic etc. .

In yet another embodiment the bit digital hardware implemented bit reception mechanism of the proposed Nx2 channel communication system is presented wherein during any clock cycle with respect to the receiving end the power at each of the channels within the Nx2 channel transmission medium is sensed and if the power value sensed at logic 0 is subtracted from the value sensed at logic 1 channel resulted in a positive value higher than zero or higher than or equal to any predefined positive value then logic 1 is confirmed to be received. Else if the power value sensed at logic 0 is subtracted from the value sensed at logic 1 channel resulted in a negative value lower than zero or lower than or equal to any predefined negative value then logic 0 is confirmed to be received.

In yet another embodiment the digital hardware implemented two channel balancing mechanism of the proposed Nx2 channel communication system is presented wherein based on a certain trigger or at a specific recurrent event with specific duration relative to transmitting and receiving ends an instruction to transmit two parallel pulses of a common finite duration simultaneously through the dedicated channel for logic 0 and the dedicated channel for logic 1 at the same time within the Nx2 channel transmission medium will take place at the same clock cycle from one specific end towards the other end. Meanwhile during the same specific event at the other end i.e. the receiving end during any clock cycle of a specific number of predefined clock cycles with respect to receiving end the power at each of the channels within the Nx2 channel transmission medium is sensed and labeled with a time tag and if the power value sensed at logic 0 subtracted from the value sensed at logic 1 channel resulted in a positive value higher than zero or higher than or equal to any predefined positive value then logic 1 channel will be having an added attenuation factor relative to the value of the subtraction process. Else if the power value sensed at logic 0 subtracted from the value sensed at logic 1 channel resulted in a negative value lower than zero or lower than or equal to any predefined negative value then logic 0 channel will be having an added attenuation factor relative to the value of the subtraction process. Furthermore if the time tag of the power value sensed at logic 0 subtracted from the time tag of the value sensed at logic 1 channel resulted in a positive value higher than zero or higher than or equal to any predefined positive value then logic 1 channel will be having an added delay factor relative to the value of the subtraction process. Else if the time tag of the power value sensed at logic 0 subtracted from the time tag of the value sensed at logic 1 channel resulted in a negative value lower than zero or lower than or equal to any predefined negative value then logic 0 channel will be having an added delay factor relative to the value of the subtraction process. The digital hardware implemented balancing mechanism ensures that the two channels within the Nx2 channel transmission medium are matched in terms for signal attenuation and propagation delay values. The digital hardware implemented balancing mechanism further ensures that proper clocking at the transmitting and receiving ends.

The present invention may be applied on any wireless or wired communication system employing wireless wired or a combined wireless and wired two channel transmission medium between a transmitter and a receiver.

Described below is a noise and interference tolerant modulation free two channel bit communication system using two channels as a transmission medium or multiples of the presented two channel system connected in parallel. Throughout the description for the purpose of explanation specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the present invention such that to one ordinary skilled in the art of the present invention he she will be able to implement a working model of the system presented herein on digital hardware with appropriate functionality without undue experimentation. In other instances throughout the description well known structures and devices are generally presented or omitted to avoid obstructing the underlying principles of the present invention.

In the following description various specific details are set forth such as logic implementations types of interrelationships of objects and logical instructions sets may be set forth in order to provide more thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention.

Moreover to avoid diversification and to further avoid obstructing the underlying principles of the present invention some fundamental i.e. known communication system circuitry or components may not be described or referred to in this detailed description and considered to be known communication system design principles with respect to one ordinary skilled in the art of the present invention seeking to implement the presented system on digital hardware.

Embodiments of the present invention will be described below. The embodiments are performed by digital hardware components but may also be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or specific purpose machine or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the various embodiments. Alternatively the various embodiments may be performed by a combination of digital hardware and a set or sets of machine executable instructions.

In any communication channel with modulated signal noise regardless if correlated with main signal or not is always present limiting high signal to noise ratio SNR hence impeding higher levels of data transfer rates.

Disregarding the use of error correction and similar techniques a binary communication channel has a basic capacity as per Shannon s Theorem.

Shannon s Theorem a mathematical model for communication channel capacity for binary data with a range of two binary states is a function of noise channel bandwidth and signal power. Channel capacity can be maximized by means of increasing channel bandwidth and or increasing signal power and or lowering channel noise possibly coupled with interference . It may be impractical to increase channel bandwidth and or signal power beyond certain limits yet it is more practical to decrease the effect of channel noise.

There are several known methods to decrease channel noise. However our invention herein attempts to exclude noise interference or any unwanted power from being a variable affecting digital communication channel capacity. In other words noise will not be eliminated rather noise effect will be made irrelevant and hence can be equated to zero for any value where SNR 0.

For a given main carrier in digital communication systems employing modulation transmitted information bits representing logic 0 and logic 1 have different signal amplitudes or amplitude ranges or frequencies or frequency ranges as sub channels for each logic state. The introduction of noise possibly coupled with interference may corrupt the said amplitudes or frequencies during demodulation such that the corrupted signal may not be recovered at the receiver resulting in a different received logic than the one originally transmitted.

The present invention is based on introducing a new concept where a communication system requires two Nx2 N 1 N integer or Nx2 N 1 N integer multiple versions of a two channel system connected in parallel to operate such that a communication signal e.g. data carrying pulse of electrical photonic or other type of energy is identified by one of the two channels it traveled through. More specifically in the presented bit communication system if the pulse power at receiver end came through the dedicated channel for sending pulses representing logic 1 then this will be confirmed as logic 1 otherwise if the sent pulse is received through the dedicated channel for sending pulses representing digit 0 then this will be confirmed as logic 0 . In this way it can be noted that information is now represented by pulse route with any amplitude above the noise floor and equal or above receiver s power sensitivity. In fact fluctuation in amplitude has no effect as long as there is positive amplitude above noise floor and greater than or equal to receiver s sensitivity in one of the channels within the Nx2 channel transmission medium. More specifically bit error rate BER at receiver will have a value of zero as long as SNR 0 SNR 0 for signal power at the receiving end of the transmitting channel higher than noise and interference power on the non transmitting channel or even on the transmitting end . This will allow the proposed system to accommodate fast switching bit pulse transmitters hence achieve higher bit transfer rate.

Sent and received pulses may be in the form of electrical charges light laser beams electromagnetic waves or any other form. However not to be regarded as a limitation of the present invention but for the purpose of avoiding unnecessary diversification the description next will relate to a Nx2 N 1 channel bit communication system.

Furthermore each of the two channels pass through an adjustable bidirectional signal delay unit represented by but not limited to a different RC time constant circuitry serial FIFO buffers with I O shifting speed f s may also be applied and also passes through an adjustable gain bidirectional signal amplifier . The delay and amplifier units in each channel when adjusted relative to each other result in balancing the two channels in terms of signal strength and propagation delay thus reducing BER to a minimum or even zero if channels are perfectly balanced. The components in only need to be on one of the two ends. Here Point A is equipped with the components in .

Also each of the points A and B includes a power supply that feeds the circuitry of points A and B. Furthermore each of the said points includes a digital clock running at a frequency that is equal to or multiples of the switching frequency f s . However in the detailed description herein clock frequency of either point equals the switching frequency f s which has also the same value at either point . In addition a timer component is fitted at point A and point B. The timer component is used to accomplish bit reception and channel balancing digital hardware implemented mechanisms that are explained later. Moreover points A and B each include a signal amplitude power value comparator with two inputs and one output. One input to is connected to logic 0 channel ve input while the other is connected to logic 1 channel ve input . The output of is the arithmetic difference i.e. output ve ve of signal amplitude at each input at a given switching cycle. If output from is positive then this means that a bit carrying logic 1 is received whereas if output from is negative then this means that a bit carrying logic 0 is received. The power value comparator directs its output depending on power value comparator state to either the balancing digital hardware implemented mechanism i.e. state 3 or to further processing i.e. state 3 . Power value comparator state is controlled by the digital hardware implemented balancing mechanism . The digital hardware implemented balancing mechanism shall be described in detail later in this detailed description.

Points A and B organize the bit transmission and reception in each of them relative to the other for the purpose of simultaneous two way communication between A and B i.e. channel duplexing especially in a multi user system environment i.e. division duplexing . In this respect the proposed invention may use any type of division duplexing e.g. Frequency Division Duplexing FDD Time Division Duplexing TDD Wavelength Division Duplexing WDD etc. . For the sake of simplicity FDD is assumed in the presented invention herein.

In the final state mentioned in State 3 a switching combination at point A and B causes parallel downlink bit transmission for logic 1 from point B to point A. the switching combination of State 3 is essential for the digital hardware implemented balancing mechanism discussed later in this section .

Also in in the case of a specific instruction in the form of State 3 triggered by the digital hardware implemented balancing mechanism described later to transmit two parallel bit pulses in one clock cycle from point B to point A then processing block will invoke a switching combination which satisfies State 3 at a time value resulting from the arithmetic operation illustrated within the said block. In any case at the end of duration with a time length equals the pulse duration PD Sate 3 will not continue to be satisfied due to the inactive switches indicating the end of parallel two bit transmission and being ready to receive the next instruction or .

As indicated earlier the presented system described in and with description of its transmitting and receiving functionality digital hardware implemented mechanisms as in and respectively assumes that each channel within the Nx2 channel medium is balanced with respect to the other channel in terms of propagation delay and signal attenuation. Thus illustrates a flow diagram representing the embodiment of the Nx2 channel balancing digital hardware implemented mechanism of the proposed Nx2 channel bit communication system. In this figure the flow diagram illustrated describes the digital hardware implemented channel balancing mechanism and the role of point A and point B while the said digital hardware implemented mechanism is in effect in the form of processing blocks such that in processing block various definitions with respect to points A and B and discussed in earlier paragraphs are made. Following the definitions within the same processing block comes an initial check for the real physical length difference if any between the two channels of the Nx2 channel medium. The difference is represented by the variable x. Furthermore variable x is assumed to be predefined and known at each point prior to the operation of the presented system. Any entered value for x which contradicts the actual value of x in reality may render the system to malfunction. If the entered value of x is above a certain limit the proposed system will stop working. If the entered value of x is lower than a certain limit then the average propagation delay of the two channels plus a predefined added safety factor will be assumed. Points A and B will be in the digital hardware implemented channel balancing mechanism mode once in any recurrent stream of y bits i.e. recurrent specific event . In general in the proposed system if the two channels are of the same physical properties e.g. two radio channels then x 0 is always true.

Processing block in will only be triggered after the y th bit is sent by point B. By then point B will be in a State 3 and point B will only accept input from the digital hardware implemented channel balancing mechanism i.e. when State 3 . Then at a time equals the Nx2 channel propagation delay plus a safety factor after processing block is triggered at the next clock cycle after the above mentioned time point B will transmit two parallel simultaneous signals to point A as per the digital hardware implemented bit transmission mechanism of while being in State 3. Once the two parallel bits are generated point B will revert back to a State 3 at a later time equals the Nx2 channel propagation delay plus a safety factor.

Whereas the processing block in will only be triggered after the y th bit is received by point A. By then point A will be in a State 3 and point A will send its output to the digital hardware implemented channel balancing mechanism i.e. when State 3 and all adjustable parameters of the Nx2 channel medium will be initialized. It should be noted that if the two parallel signals sent from point B are received at point A such that the two signals have identical amplitudes and were received at exactly the same time then the Nx2 channel medium will be considered as balanced and subsequent processing blocks i.e. to will result in no effect at all.

In processing block for a time duration that is less than the Nx2 channel propagation delay plus a safety factor each input i.e. received signal of the possible two inputs will have its received amplitude value recorded as well as the time stamp of arrival. Timeout1 will only be considered to be true if the first input Z1 Z is not detected within a time that is less than the Nx2 channel propagation delay plus a safety factor otherwise Z1 Z 0. Whereas timeout2 will only be considered to be true if the first input Z2 Z is not detected within a time that is less than the Nx2 channel propagation delay plus a safety factor otherwise Z2 Z 0. The maximum possible channel propagation delay difference in the time stamps of arrival should always be less than of equals the Nx2 channel propagation delay between points A and B assuming identical delay for uplink point A to point B and downlink point B to point A .

It should be noted that after the execution of block if Z1 0 or Z2 0 then this zero value at the receiving point A would indicate that at least one component of the parallel single was never transmitted by point B or a possible break within the transmission medium.

Thereafter at point A in processing block the adjustable gain value of each of the A0 and A1 bidirectional amplifiers will be automatically adjusted such that the difference between the signal amplitude of logic 0 channel of the Nx2 channel medium and the signal amplitude of logic 1 channel of the Nx2 channel medium is minimum or zero. If no difference between the said two signal amplitudes then gain A0 gain A1 1. The decision process in block totally depends on the values of Z1 and Z2. The main function of processing block is to ensure via arithmetically obtained values for gain A0 and gain A1 that the absolute value of Z1 equals the absolute value of Z2.

Once the digital hardware implemented channel balancing mechanism is past the stage of balancing the amplitudes of the two received signals at point A processing block of will check if there are at least two recordings for Z as Z1 then Z2 with two time stamps that are equal or otherwise time stamps detected during the execution of processing block . If so then the same processing block will use the two time stamps of arrival as well as the values of Z1 and Z2 to decide the required values for the Nx2 channel medium adjustable delay units D0 and D1. Else if during the execution of processing block the two time stamps were found to have the same time value then D0 and D1 will impose no further delay such that both having a common value of zero. Furthermore it can be noted that within the processing block the value of Z is still Z Z1 Z2 which was defined in processing block and the value of Z in this processing block is relative to a specific time stamp recorded on counter1 and counter2 represented in the timer component of . The time dependent values of Z Z1 Z2 at a certain time stamp plus the difference between the values of the time stamps of arrival i.e. the difference between the recorded values of counter1 and counter2 are the factors which governs the decision flow within processing block . Once processing block is executed point A will switch back to a State 3 immediately .

The digital hardware implemented channel balancing mechanism described above repeats at a cycle rate equals y bits.

The present invention may be applied on any wireless or wired communication system employing wireless wired or a combined wireless and wired two channel transmission medium between a transmitter and a receiver.

Lastly it should be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to the embodiment or an embodiment or one embodiment or another embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in the connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Therefore it is emphasized and should be appreciated that two or more references to an embodiment or one embodiment or an alternative embodiment in various portions of this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined as suitable in one or more embodiments of the invention.

Similarly it should be appreciated that in the foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of the invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive and that the embodiments of the present invention are not to be limited to specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon studying this disclosure.

