---

title: Dynamic linking of security systems
abstract: The present disclosure relates to methods, systems, and apparatuses for dynamically linking a first security system and a second security system. A method may include selectively linking a first security system and a second security system based on one or more link conditions. The method may further include receiving one or more first sensor event messages from the first security system and sending at least a portion of the one or more first sensor event messages to the second security system. The method may also include receiving one or more second sensor event messages from the second security system, and sending at least a portion of the one or more second sensor event messages to the first security system. In one aspect, the method may include selectively de-linking the first security system and the second security system based on one or more de-link conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589453&OS=09589453&RS=09589453
owner: Vivint, Inc.
number: 09589453
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 793 609 entitled Linked Security Systems filed on Mar. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 785 210 entitled Security System Video and Image Functionality filed on Mar. 14 2013 which are assigned to the assignee hereof.

This disclosure relates generally to security systems and more specifically to dynamically linking one or more separate security systems.

Security systems are widely used to protect property and to provide personal safety. Security systems generally include a control unit that controls the overall operation of the system one or more keypads providing user access to the system and various detectors and or sensors.

Security systems may generate an alarm in response to any number of events such unauthorized entry fire medical emergency or manual alarm activation. The security system may be associated with a service that remotely monitors the status of the security system. Thus if the security system generates an alarm a notification signal may be transmitted via a wired and or wireless communications link to a central station. Upon receiving the notification security service personnel at the central station may attempt to contact the property owner or other party at the facility to verify the alarm. If it is appropriate to do so the security service representative may upon confirmation of the alarm contact an emergency response agency such as the police department the fire department an emergency medical team or other appropriate entity.

One problem for many consumers is the need to monitor multiple security systems at separate facilities. A consumer may have one security system installed at home and another at work. Another consumer may have one security system installed at his home and a second at the home of an elderly parent or neighbor. While the consumer is at one facility it may difficult to monitor the other facility without missing alerts or notifications.

Disclosed herein are systems methods and devices for dynamically linking security systems. In one implementation a first security system includes a first control unit and a plurality of first sensors. A second security system includes a second control unit and a plurality of second sensors. The first control unit may be configured to link to the second control unit based upon the occurrence of one or more link conditions such that the first control unit sends first system alarm condition messages for alarm conditions detected by the first sensors to the second control unit. The first control unit may also receive second system commands from the second control unit and execute the second system commands on the first security system. The second control unit may be configured to send the second system commands. The first control unit may also be configured to de link with the second control unit of the second security system based upon the occurrence of one or more de link conditions.

The first security system and the second security system may selectively link and de link. The first control unit and the second control unit may for example automatically link in response to one or more link conditions and automatically de link in response to one or more de link conditions.

In some embodiments the second control unit may be configured to automatically link to the first control unit in response to one or more link conditions such that the second control unit sends second system alarm conditions for alarm conditions detected by the second system sensors to the first control unit. The second control unit may also receive first system commands from the first control unit and execute the one or more first system commands on the second security system. The second control unit may also be configured to automatically de link to the first control unit in response to one or more de link conditions.

The first security system may be installed at a first facility and the second security system at a separate second facility. The control units of the first and second security systems may send the alarm condition messages directly to each other or indirectly through a monitoring system. The control units may also be configured to display the alarm condition messages they receive on their respective displays and to visually or otherwise differentiate between the alarm condition messages displayed.

In some embodiments the first and or second security system may include a video conference module configured for establishing a video and audio communication session with at least one other electronic device. For example the first control unit may include a video conference module configured for establishing a video and audio communication session with the second control unit of the second security system. Similarly the second control unit may include a video conference module configured for establishing a video and audio communication session with the first control unit of the second security system. The first and or second control unit may also include a communication interface for receiving and transmitting audio and video data over a network based the established video and audio communication session. In some embodiments the video and audio communication session may be one way for example from the first control unit to the second control unit. In other embodiments the video and audio communication session may be two way such that both the first and second control units can receive and transmit video and audio data to the other respective control unit.

In some embodiments the first and or second security system may include a camera configured to capture at least one image of an access area. The first and or second security system may further include a control unit including a database. The control unit may be configured to compare data within the database to at least image captured by the camera and allow access to a premises if the data and the at least image adequately match. In one example the first control unit of the first security system may link with the second control unit of the second security system to transmit data captured by a camera of the first security system.

Another embodiment may include a link module that links a first security system and a second security system. The link module may be configured to selectively link the first and second security systems based on one or more link conditions. The link module may be configured to receive first system sensor event messages generated by the first security system separate from the link module. The link module may also be configured to receive first system commands of the first security system. The link module may send second system sensor event messages generated by the second security system to the first security system and send second system commands of the second security system to the first security system which may execute the second system commands. The link module may also be configured to selectively de link the first and second security systems based on one or more de link conditions.

The link module may be similarly configured to receive second system sensor event messages generated by the second security system and the second system commands. The link module may further send the first system sensor event messages generated by the first security system to the second security system and send the first system commands to the second security system for execution.

The link module may be implemented in the second control unit and a second link module may be implemented in the first control unit. The link module and second link module may communicate with each other. In other embodiments the link module may be implemented in a monitoring system associated with the first security system and the second security system.

The link module may filter first system sensor event messages such that only a subset of the received first system sensor event messages is sent to the second security system. In one embodiment the link module sends only sensor event messages associated with first system alarm condition messages to the second security system.

Also disclosed is a method for linking security systems. The method may include selectively linking a first security system and a second security system based on one or more link conditions. The method may further include receiving one or more first sensor event messages from the first security system and sending at least a portion of the one or more first sensor event message to the second security system that is separate from the first security system. The method may also include receiving one or more second sensor event messages from the second security system and sending at least a portion of the second sensor event messages to the first security system.

In some embodiments a method for linking security systems may include displaying on a second control unit for the second security system at least a portion of the one or more first sensor event messages received from the first security system. In some cases the method may include displaying on a first control unit for the first security system at least a portion of the one or more second sensor event messages received from the second security system. Some embodiments may include sending one or more first commands for the second security system which first commands originate with the first security system to the second security system.

Some embodiments may include capturing at least one image of an access area of a security system and comparing the at least one image to stored data. The method may also include granting access to a secured area if the at least one image adequately matches the stored data.

In another specific embodiment a method may include retrieving a first network address at a communication device of a security system and establishing a video communication link with a second communication device assigned the first network address.

Yet another embodiment of the present disclosure comprises a computer readable media storage storing instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform instructions in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein.

Other aspects as well as features and advantages of various aspects of the present disclosure will become apparent to those of skill in the art though consideration of the ensuing description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Referring in general to the accompanying drawings various embodiments of the present disclosure are illustrated to show the structure and methods for installing a component within a system such as a security system. Common elements of the illustrated embodiments are designated with like numerals. It should be understood that the figures presented are not meant to be illustrative of actual views of any particular portion of the actual device structure but are merely schematic representations which are employed to more clearly and fully depict embodiments of the disclosure.

The following provides a more detailed description of ways to implement the present disclosure and various representative embodiments thereof. In this description functions may be shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the present disclosure in unnecessary detail. Additionally block definitions and partitioning of logic between various blocks is exemplary of a specific implementation. It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced by numerous other solutions. For the most part details concerning timing considerations and the like have been omitted where such details are not necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present disclosure and are within the abilities of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

In this description some drawings may illustrate signals as a single signal for clarity of presentation and description. It will be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art that the signal may represent a bus of signals wherein the bus may have a variety of bit widths and the present disclosure may be implemented on any number of data signals including a single data signal.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure systems methods and devices are provided for dynamically linking security systems. A first security system may include a first control unit and a plurality of first sensors. A second security system may include a second control unit and a plurality of second sensors. The first control unit may be configured to link to the second control unit based upon the occurrence of one or more link conditions such that the first control unit sends first system alarm condition messages for alarm conditions detected by the first sensors to the second control unit. The first control unit may also receive second system commands from the second control unit and execute the second system commands on the first security system. The second control unit may be configured to send the second system commands. The first control unit may also be configured to de link with the second control unit of the second security system based upon the occurrence of one or more de link conditions.

The first security system and the second security system may selectively link and de link. The first control unit and the second control unit may for example automatically link in response to one or more link conditions and automatically de link in response to one or more de link conditions.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a security system may include a control unit which may be configured for establishing a video and audio communication session with at least one other electronic device. For example in one embodiment a control unit of a first security system may establish a video and audio communication session with a control unit of another security system. In another embodiment a first control unit e.g. a primary control panel of a security system may establish a video and audio communication session with another panel e.g. a secondary control panel within the security system. In another embodiment a control unit of first security system may be configured to establish a video and audio communication session with a remote computing device such as a mobile telephone.

In accordance with other various embodiments of the present disclosure a security system may include a camera positioned at an access area e.g. outside of a residence and near a door and configured to record and or display video of the access area. In one example a control unit may be configured to display live video i.e. video captured by the camera of the access point on a display device of the control unit e.g. inside a residence . In another example video taken by the camera may be recorded by the control unit e.g. a digital video recorder DVR for subsequent viewing. According to one embodiment recording of events i.e. via the camera may triggered be based on security system events e.g. if a door unlocks if a window breaks or if the camera senses movement . In some embodiments the live or recorded video information gathered by the camera may be sent to a control unit of another security system for example upon the occurrence of a link condition that causes the two security systems to automatically link.

Further according to other embodiments of the present disclosure a security system may include a camera proximate an access area and configured to capture at least one image of the access area. The security system may further be configured to process the at least one image captured by the camera to compare the at least one image to data e.g. images stored in a local database to determine whether access to an area e.g. a residence should be granted to a person depicted in the image. In some embodiments the live or recorded video information gathered by the camera may be sent to a control unit of another security system for example upon the occurrence of a link condition that causes the two security systems to automatically link to enable the user of the linked security system to influence the access determination.

As noted above a security system may include one or more sensors linked to a control panel which may include an interface that can be used by a user. It is noted that a control panel may also be referred to herein as a control unit or a system controller Via a control panel a user may arm e.g. when leaving their residence and disarm e.g. when entering their residence the security system. The control panel may provide other functionality such as a physical duress alarm two way voice communication a siren etc. Security sensors may be configured to monitor for various events. For example a door window sensor may be configured to detect when a door window has been opened a motion detector may be configured to detect motion. Other sensors may be configured to detect breaking of glass.

In addition to a local control panel which monitors sensor activity on premises a security system may include a central monitoring system. For residential security systems a remote central monitoring system can be a third party vendor s in some cases the same company that installed the alarm system. For commercial and industrial security systems security or other personnel may monitor the premises. In commercial and industrial settings the control panel can be integrated into a larger security system. In any event when sensor monitoring is activated and a sensor indicates a physical disturbance the control panel can activate an alarm. In response to an alarm the control panel can activate an audible siren and or send an indication of the alarm to a central monitoring entity via a security event signal. The central monitoring entity can then initiate a response such as contacting the owner of the premises sending security personnel contact authorities or a combination thereof.

Sensors monitor for certain events and report relevant events to the control unit . Sensors may include any of a variety of different types of sensors such as door and window sensors motion sensors glass break sensors e.g. sensors that detect a physical break or detecting the sound of a glass break etc. The control unit may be configured to monitor sensors for events or alarm conditions via communication links and to relay alarms to the monitoring system via communication link . The sensors may in response to detecting an alarm condition send an alarm condition message to the control unit .

Control unit may include sensor monitoring module user interface and alarm module . Sensor monitoring module is configured to monitor sensors . Sensors can sense and or indicate a change in their physical surroundings e.g. a normally closed connection becomes open a signal indicating that the sound of breaking glass was detected etc. which may be indicative of an unauthorized access fire or other event. The sensors may communicate messages on communication links . For example a circuit connected to a door sensor can transition from closed to open or to a resistance exceeding a pre determined resistance threshold indicating that a door has been opened. A motion sensor can send an electrical signal indicative of detected motion. Sensor monitoring module may monitor communication links for alarm condition messages sent from sensors . Upon sensor monitoring module receiving an alarm condition message indicating the occurrence of an alarm condition sensor monitoring module may send a signal to alarm module . The alarm module may determine whether an alarm condition has actually occurred before communicating with the monitoring system .

User interface can include an input interface and an output interface. The input interface can comprise a physical input interface or virtual input interface that may include a numeric key pad e.g. for entering a disarm code etc. sensor activation buttons physical duress buttons or other input output devices. The input interface can include a condenser for receiving audio input and or communicating with monitoring system . The output interface may include an output display device that displays system status such as armed and disarmed sensors zones that have detected change in physical surroundings and other relevant information. The output interface can also include a speaker that audibly outputs information similar to that displayed on the output display device. The speaker can also be used by monitoring system to communicate with a user of control unit . Other input output approaches may also be implemented as part of the user interface .

The control unit may also communicate over a communication link with a remote activation system . The remote activation system may allow a user to interact with the control unit remotely. For example the user may be able to arm and disarm the system from a mobile device such as a cellular phone using the remote activation system .

In some instances the control unit may be configured to automatically link and delink with another control unit of another security system separate from security system in response to one or more link de link conditions as will be described in greater detail below.

Generally control unit may operate under control of an operating system stored in memory and interface with a user to accept inputs and commands and to present outputs through user interface . Control unit may also implement a compiler not shown which allows one or more application programs not shown written in a programming language to be translated into processor readable code. Instructions implementing an application program may be tangibly embodied in a computer readable medium. Further an application program may include instructions which when read and executed by processor cause processor to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use embodiments of the present disclosure. It is noted that an application program and or operating instructions may also be tangibly embodied in memory and or data communications devices thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to an embodiment the present disclosure. As such the term application program as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. Furthermore portions of the application program may be distributed such that some of the application program may be included on a computer readable media within control unit and some of the application program may be included in a remote device such as a remote computer.

The control unit may thus be a component in a security system and or a building automation system. The control unit may provide security and or automation functionality for a residence an office a building or other appropriate space.

In some embodiments the control unit may be realized as a control panel. As used herein the term control panel refers to a standalone dedicated unit for providing security and or building automation functionality. The term control panel does not include a general purpose computer smart phone tablet or other general purpose device that may run an application providing some security automation functionality.

The control unit may further include a link module . The link module may be software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. While illustrates the link module as a component of the control unit the link module may in other embodiments be implemented separate from the control unit . In one embodiment illustrated in the link module is implemented as part of a monitoring system providing services for multiple security services. The link module links a first security system and a second security system in certain embodiments each security system can be monitored and or controlled from the other security system. For example the link module may link a security system installed in a home with a security system installed in an office allowing a user to monitor and manage the security system installed at the office from the security system installed in the home. The link module for example may automatically link and de link the two security systems upon the occurrence of one or more link de link conditions.

The system includes an operations center implementing a monitoring system . While illustrates an operation center implementing the monitoring system the monitoring system may in certain embodiments be implemented without an associated operations center . The operations center provides systems and or personnel that support the security functions of the security system implemented at the facility . For example the control unit may communicate with a monitoring system in the event of an alarm condition at the facility . A security representative situated at the operations center may review the alarm condition notifications communicated to the monitoring system . The security representative may attempt to contact an individual associated with the first facility by phone through the first security system or other. In appropriate circumstances the individual may contact an emergency response center and dispatch emergency response personnel to the first facility . In other instances the monitoring system may automatically respond according to preset instructions to certain alarm conditions.

For example the first security system may send the monitoring system an alarm condition notification indicating that a fire alarm at the first facility has been triggered. The security representative at the operations center may review the alarm condition notification sent to the monitoring system and attempt to contact a person at the first facility . After confirming that there is a fire at the first facility the security representative may call 9 1 1 and ask that firefighters be dispatched to the first facility . The operations center may provide a similar service for the second facility . The monitoring system for example after confirming the fire alarm at the first facility may automatically notify fire personnel to respond to fire alarm at the first facility .

The system also includes a network . The network communicatively couples the first security system of the first facility with one or more separate devices such as the monitoring system . The network also in the depicted embodiment couples the second security system of the second facility with the monitoring system . The network may be an Internet network a telephone network a cellular network or other variety of communications network. In certain embodiments the first security system and the second security system may be configured to connect with more than one network such an embodiment may provide redundancy and make the system more robust.

The first facility includes a first security system . The first security system provides security services for the first facility . The first security system may also provide additional services such as home automation services like managing light and temperature for the first facility . The first security system may include sensors and control panels as depicted in . The second security system may provide comparable services for the second facility .

Beneficially the first security system of the first facility and the second security system of the second facility may be linked. A link module may provide the link functionality for the system . The first security system may share information with the second security system and vice versa. As a result an individual moving between the first facility and the second facility or a person responsible for the security of both the first facility and the second facility may more easily manage security at both locations.

An alarm condition message refers to a communication indicating the occurrence of an alarm condition. For example a sensor may send an alarm condition message to the first control unit upon occurrence of an alarm condition. Similarly the first control unit may send an alarm condition message to a monitoring system and or a second control unit . The formatting and content of an alarm condition message may change depending on the device sending and the device receiving the alarm condition message. For example the alarm condition message sent by a first sensor to the first control unit may be sent according to the Z Wave wireless communications protocol. The alarm condition message sent by the control unit to the monitoring system may be sent according to the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and may include additional and or different information than the alarm condition message sent by the first sensor .

The first control unit may be configured to link to the second control unit . The first control unit may as shown in link directly to the second control unit . For example the second control unit may be an Internet enabled device with a unique address. The first control unit may be configured to send messages to the address associated with the second control unit . In other embodiments as shown in the first control unit communicates indirectly with the second control unit . For example the first control unit may send messages to a monitoring system . The monitoring system may then send those messages to the second control unit or make those messages available for retrieval by the second control unit .

The first control unit may be configured to send to the second control unit one or more first system alarm condition messages i.e. alarm condition messages for the first security system for alarm conditions detected by the first sensors . For example if a first sensor detects an open door and the first control unit determines that the first security system is armed the first control unit may cause an alarm to sound at the first facility and send an alarm condition message to the second control unit indicating that the door is open and that the second control unit has sounded an alarm. The second control unit may notify a person at the second facility that it has received the alarm condition message for example the second control unit may display a message on a display for the second control unit create an audible alert or otherwise provide notification.

The first control unit may also be configured to receive one or more second system commands from the second control unit . As used herein a command refers to a communication that causes an action to occur on the first security system . The first control unit may be configured to execute the second system commands received from the second control unit . To continue the example above a user at the second facility may determine that the door was opened by an employee who forgot to disarm the first security system before entering the first facility . The user may send a second system command that causes the first control unit to turn off the alarm at the first facility .

Other examples of second system commands include a command that arms the first security system a command that remotely locks or unlocks a door that is controlled by the first control unit and a command that adjusts the thermostat of the first facility . Other second system commands other than those listed in the above non exhaustive list may also be beneficially implemented.

In certain embodiments the second control unit may be configured to initiate a communication session with the first control unit whereby a user of the first control unit can communicate with a user of the second control unit . In one embodiment the communication session is a text based communication session. In another embodiment the communication session is an audio communication session for example both the first control unit and the second control unit may have speakers and microphones allowing the users to speak to each other from the respective control units. In another embodiment the communication session may be an audio video communication session. In certain embodiments the first control unit may also be configured to allow a user to initiate a communication session with the second control unit .

The first control unit and the second control unit may automatically link in response to one or more link conditions. As used herein a link condition refers to a condition that if met results in the first control unit linking to the second control unit such that the first security system and the second security system are linked. In one embodiment the link conditions are related to time and date. For example a link condition may specify that at 6 00 pm on weekdays the first control unit links with the second control unit . Another link condition may specify that the first control unit link with the second control unit on weekends.

In some embodiment the link condition may be related to the status of the first security system . For example a link condition may specify that if the first security system is armed the first control unit should link with the second control unit . Another possible link condition is that only if the first security system is in an armed away status i.e. the first security system is armed and no one is within the first facility will the first control unit link with the second control unit . Other possible link conditions other than those provided here may also be used.

The first control unit and the second control unit may also automatically de link in response to one or more de link conditions. The first control unit may de link the first security system and the second security system in response to an authorized user entering the facility protected by the first security system and disarming the first security system . Other possible de link conditions other than those provided here may also be used.

The first control unit and or the second control unit may be further configured to allow a user to manually link and de link the first security system and the second security system . The first control unit and the second control unit may require authorization from the user before allowing the user to manually link or de link the first security system and the second security system . For example the first control unit may require a user to provide a personal identification number PIN a password a biometric scan or other form of authorization.

As shown in the first control unit may include a first link module and the second control unit may include a second link module to facilitate linking of the first security system and the second security system and to implement one or more of the functions described above. The first link module and the second link module may be implemented in software firmware hardware or some combination thereof on the respective first control unit and the second control unit .

While illustrates two security systems any number of security systems may be linked based upon the needs of the user. Thus a plurality of additional security systems including additional control units may link to the second control unit .

While the example discussed in connection with dealt with an embodiment where only one security system provides the other security system with information and is controllable by the other security system in certain embodiments both security systems provide updates to each other and are controllable by the other security system. Each security system may thus share the same information with the other security system and be controllable from the other security system. For example the first security system may be installed at a first residence and the second security system may be installed at a second residence an office etc. The second security system may receive information about the first security system and provide that information to the user of the second security system . The first security system may similarly receive information about the second security system and provide that information to the user of the first security system . The user of the first security system may control aspects of the second security system and the user of the second security system may control aspects of the first security system .

The link module may link a first security system installed at a user s home and a second security system installed at the user s office. While at home the user may be able to monitor the status of the second security system as the second security system is linked to the first security system by the link module . The user may also be able to control one or more features of the second security system from the home using the first security system for example the user may be able to arm and disarm the second security system and adjust the temperature at the office. While at the office the user may be able to similarly monitor and manage the home with the first security system through the second security system .

The link module may be configured to receive first system sensor event messages generated by the first security system and to receive one or more first system commands of the first security system . The link module may also receive second system sensor events and one or more second system commands that are generated by the second security system . The link module may send second system sensor events to the first security system and send second system commands of the second security system to the first security system . Similarly the link module may send first system sensor events messages and first system commands to the second security system . The first security system and the second security system may be respectively configured to execute the second system commands and first system commands received from the link module .

In certain embodiments the link module may be configured to filter the first system sensor event messages received from the first security system such that the second security system receives only a subset of the first system sensor event messages . The filtering may occur in the monitoring system or in other embodiments at the first control unit . For example the link module may filter the first system sensor event messages such that only those sensor events associated with alarm conditions are sent to the second security system . In one embodiment a user can create one or more filters for the link module to implement.

The receive module my receive first system commands and first system sensor events from the first security system and second system commands and second system sensor events from the second security system . Where the link module is implemented as part of the monitoring system the receive module may receive the above communications over a network as discussed above. Where the link module is implemented in a first control unit the receive module may receive the first system commands and the first system sensor events over a bus for example the sensor monitoring module discussed in connection with may transmit first system sensor events over a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus. Where the link module is implemented as software on the first control unit the receive module may receive the first system commands and first system sensor events through function calls or other features of an application programming interface API .

The filter module may apply one or more filter rules to communications such as the system commands and sensor events received by the receive module . The filter module may apply a first set of rules for the communications received from the first security system and a second set of rules for the communications received from the second security system . The filter module may cause only a subset of the total first system sensor events received by the receive module to be sent to the second security system and vice versa. The filter module may save the filter rules in a database table or other suitable data structure.

The send module may send the first system commands and the first system sensor events received by the receive module to the second security system . The send module may add additional information to the first system commands and the first system sensor events before sending them to the second security system . In certain embodiments the send module may reformat the first system commands and the first system sensor events for example the receive module may receive the communications according to a first protocol and the send module may reformat the communications to conform to a second protocol. The send module may perform similar functions for second system commands and second system sensor events .

Where the link module is implemented on the second control unit the display module may display information concerning first system commands and first system sensor events on a display of the second control unit . The display module may interact with the hardware operating system and or application of the second control unit to display information. One example of a possible display is provided in connection with . A link module implemented on the first control unit may perform similar functions for the second system commands and the second system sensor events .

The selection module may link and de link the first security system and the second security system . The selection module may automatically link and de link the first security system and the second security system in response to link conditions and de link conditions as described above. The selection module may be further configured to allow a user to manually link and de link the first security system and the second security system .

In one embodiment the selection module allows the user to set up the link module to provide the linking functionality described herein. For example when setting up a link for the first time the selection module may request that the user provide a unique identifier that identifies the second security system . The selection module may also require authentication and authorization from both the first control unit and the second control unit before creating an initial link. Once the selection module creates the initial link it may store the relevant addresses and information allowing the selection module to automatically link and de link the first security system and the second security system in the future.

The display may be configured to show a general display area a first facility display section and a second facility display section . The general display area may be an area where the control unit displays general information unrelated to a particular facility for example the control unit may display the date time weather or other information in the general display area .

The control unit may display information related to the first facility in the first facility display section . The control unit may store and display a name for the first facility for example the display name for the first facility may be Home. The first facility display section may also include the status of the first security system at the first facility . In the status of the first security system is system ready not armed. The first facility display section may also display the status of one or more first sensors in the first security system . In the status of one first sensor may be Window open . Thus the control unit may display alarm condition messages and or sensor event messages on the display .

The first facility display section may also display one or more touch icons allowing the user to receive additional information about the first security system and to send commands to the first security system . In pressing the security icon may display a menu of security related options for the user such as for example arming or disarming the first security system . Pressing the services icon may display a menu of services related options for the user such as for example setting a temperature turning lights on and off locking doors and other options. The control unit may thus visually differentiate between first system alarm condition messages and or sensor event messages and second system alarm conditions and or sensor event messages. Other configurations for displaying such information and differentiating between the two security systems are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

The control unit may also display information related to the second facility in the second facility display section . The control unit may store and display a name for the second facility in the name of the second facility is Office. The second facility display section may include the status of the second security system and the status of one or more second sensors . In the status of the second security system is System ready armed and the status of a second sensor is Door open . The control unit may provide icons such as the security and services that allow a user to cause various security and service related actions as described above.

In the embodiment shown in the second security system for the office has triggered an alarm since the second security system is armed and a door is open. The second security system may cause an alarm at the office such as an audio alarm a visual alarm or some combination thereof. The control unit may however be part of the first security system . Where the user is at the home where the control unit is installed the user is unlikely to hear or see the alarm sounding at the office.

The control unit may be configured to provide an alert when the second security system is in an alarm condition. For example the control unit may generate an audible alarm through the speaker . The control unit may generate a visual alarm by changing the color of the second facility display section . For example the control unit may create a red flashing background for the second facility display section if an alarm condition at the second facility is detected. In certain embodiments the audible and or the visual component of the alarm generated by the control unit may differ depending on whether the alarm is for the home or the office. Such an embodiment may allow the user to quickly determine where the alarm condition exists and whether the user is in present danger. Those of skill in the art will appreciate the various alarms that may be generated by the control unit .

The control unit may also allow the user to review and disable the alarm for the second security system from the control unit for the first security system . The user may for example communicate with an individual at the second facility through the control unit . The user may determine that an authorized individual accidentally triggered the alarm and disable the alarm at the second facility . The user may in one embodiment press the security icon in the second facility display section to access an icon from which the user can send a command to the second security system turning the alarm off and or disarming the second security system . The second facility display section may provide a confirmation that the alarm has turned off.

The link module may re direct communications from an operations center intended for one security system to the other or to both linked security systems. In one embodiment the link module designates one security system as the dominant security system. A user may designate the security system for whichever facility she is physically present at as the dominant security system. For example the user may designate the second security system as the dominant security system when the user is at the second facility and the first security system as the dominant security system when the user is at the first facility . Communications from the operations center may be routed to the dominant security system. Thus a security representative may attempt to communicate with a user through the control unit for the second security system in response to an alarm for the second security system sounding. If the first security system is the dominant security system at the time of the communication the link module may route the communication to the first security system .

In another embodiment the link module routes communications from a security representative at the operations center to both the first security system and the linked second security system regardless of the security system for which the communication is intended. The link module may further monitor for which security system generates a response to the communication and establish communication between the responding security system and the operations center .

For example a security representative may attempt to speak with a user through the second control unit for the second security system in response to an alarm occurring for the second security system . The link module may cause the communication to come through both the second control unit and the first control unit . If the first response is through the first control unit the link module may route the communications from the security representative for that communication session through the first control unit .

In some embodiments the display of the control unit may also include a video display screen not shown that displays video input received by the control unit . The video display screen may be linked to the speaker such that received video and audio information may be presented to a user in a synchronized manner. In some cases the control unit may receive video and audio data from a wireless device such as mobile device another security system another control unit of another security system etc.

In some embodiments the display of the control unit may display video and audio data from another control unit upon the occurrence of one or more link conditions as described above. For example upon the occurrence and or detection of an alarm condition at second security system the second security system may automatically link to the first security system via control unit . If for example the alarm condition is a door of the second facility being opened when the second security system is armed the second security system may link to the first security system and send video and audio data related to the alarm condition at the second facility. For example the data may be real time data such that a user at control unit may see a live stream of video and audio data coming from the door where the alarm condition at the second facility occurred. In other scenarios the data may be recorded by the second security system and the recoding of the video and audio data may be transmitted to and displayed on the display of the control unit . The operation and functionality of the video and audio communication session will be described in greater detail below in reference to .

According to one embodiment display may be configured to display information such as for example video images or a combination thereof. Thus a self contained system i.e. control unit may display audio and or video via user interface . In addition camera may be configured to capture video and still images. Accordingly events that occur near control unit may be displayed via the user interface . Further the captured events may be recorded for subsequent viewing. According to one embodiment recording of events i.e. via camera may be triggered based on security system events e.g. if a door unlocks if a window breaks or if the camera senses movement .

Further transducer which may comprise a microphone may be configured to receive an audio input and convert the audio input into a electrical signal for transmission. Speaker may be configured to convey an audio output.

Memory may include a video conferencing module and an image processing module each of which may comprise hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. Memory may also include one or more databases for storing data. In video conference module and image processing module are illustrated as being stored in memory so as to be accessible and or executable by processor . However it should be understood that video conference module and image processing module may be otherwise stored even remotely.

As will be appreciated by a person having ordinary skill in the art videoconferencing is the conduct of a videoconference also known as a video conference or video teleconference by a set of telecommunication technologies which allow two or more locations to communicate by simultaneous video and audio transmissions. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure video conferencing module may be configured for establishing a video and audio communication session with at least one other electronic device such as a control unit of another security system a mobile device etc. More specifically video conference module may identify a network address of a device and thereafter establish a communication session with the device using the identified network address. Further a communication interface which may comprise user interface and transceiver may be configured for receiving and transmitting audio and video data over a network via an established communication session. It is noted that video conferencing as described herein is not limited to two way conferencing. Rather one way or more than two way conferences may be within the scope of the present disclosure.

According to one embodiment electronic device may include a control unit of another security system. As such according to one contemplated operation a user of a first security system e.g. at a first residence may participate in a video conference with a user of another security system e.g. at a second residence such as in systems and or described above in reference to and or . According to another embodiment electronic device may include a remote computing device. As a more specific example electronic device may include a personal computer or a mobile device such as a mobile telephone. According to another embodiment control unit and electronic device may exist within a single security system. Stated another way control unit may comprise a primary control panel within a security system e.g. proximate a front door of a residence and electronic device may comprise a secondary panel of the security system e.g. in a bedroom of the residence . In accordance with yet another embodiment electronic device may be located at a technical support center. Therefore in this embodiment a user of control unit may receive technical support for security system via a video conference with a technician.

In accordance with other various embodiments of the present disclosure a security device which may be part of security system and or described above in reference to and or may include a camera positioned proximate an access area e.g. near a door or a gate and configured to capture video and or images of an access area. The video and or images may be communicated via a communications session with an electronic device such as a control unit of another security system for example to inform a user of the electronic device of events occurring at an access area associated with control unit .

With reference to a block diagram of an example security device is shown. The security device which is configured to be positioned proximate an access area may include a camera and a transceiver . According to one embodiment camera may capture video and or still images of an access area. Further video and or images captured by camera may be transmitted to control unit see via transceiver . Upon receipt of data from transceiver control unit may display the data via user interface store the data within databases or both. As such a user positioned proximate user interface may view the access area to determine whether to open a door for a person positioned within the access area. According to one embodiment recording of events i.e. via camera may triggered be based on security system events e.g. if a door unlocks if a window breaks or if the camera senses movement . In addition the video and or images captured by camera may be communicated to a control unit of another security system for example via the techniques described above.

Further with reference to a block diagram of another example security device is shown. The security device may include a camera a transceiver and a user interface having a display a speaker and or a transducer . As such a user positioned proximate user interface may communicate e.g. audibly visually or both with a person positioned proximate the access area.

As noted above a camera may capture still images of an access area e.g. an area proximate a door or a gate outside of a residence . Further according to one embodiment an image captured by camera may be transmitted to control unit and compared to data within database . More specifically a captured image may be compared to one or more images stored within database to determine if a person depicted in the captured image matches an image of an authorized person. It is noted that control unit may utilize image processing module to identify one or more characteristics of an image. It is further noted that device may capture and transmit a plurality of images of a person positioned proximate thereto. Accordingly upon receipt of a plurality of images of a person image processing module see may be configured to identify an optimal image of the plurality of images compare the identified image to images of authorized persons and depending on whether the captured image matches an image of an authorized person grant or deny access.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure control unit may be configured to display video images sound or a combination thereof captured from one or more cameras positioned within a security system such as a system including aspects of systems and or described above in reference to and or . Therefore in this embodiment upon occurrence of an alarm event a user may view and possibly hear via user interface video images and or audio captured by a camera proximate a location of the alarm event.

It is noted that according to one or more embodiments of the disclosure a security system may include digital video recorder DVR functionality. For example control unit may include or may be operably coupled to a DVR. Accordingly any video that is conveyed to or generated at control unit may be recorded and stored at control unit . As a more specific example video received via a video conference or video captured by a camera i.e. a camera proximate to or within control unit or a camera remote from control unit may be recorded via the DVR and stored within control unit . Further according to other embodiments of the present disclosure video images and or audio stored within control unit may be remotely played back. Stated another way the security system as described herein may be configured for remote playback of media video images and or audio stored on the panel.

Control unit may include one or more aspects of control unit and or described above in reference to and or . The link module of control unit may link a first security system and a second security system such as by linking control unit to another control unit of another security system. In some embodiments each security system can be monitored and or controlled from the other security system. The link module in conjunction with the processor the user interface and the memory may further trigger the establishment of a video and audio communication session with another security device such as device and or described in reference to and or another security system another control unit of another security system etc. In some aspects the establishment of the video and audio commination session may be triggered when the link module automatically establishes a link with another security system based on the occurrence of one or more link conditions. The video and audio session may further be automatically terminated when the link module automatically de links the first and second security systems upon the occurrence of one or more de link conditions.

The method may further include at block receiving one or more first sensor event messages from a first security system e.g. and sending at block at least a portion of the first sensor event messages to a second security system e.g. that is separate from the first security system e.g. . In some embodiments a link module such as first and or second link modules implemented in a first control unit and or a second control unit or a link module implemented in a monitoring system may perform the steps and or .

The method may further include at reference numeral receiving one or more second sensor event messages from the second security system e.g. and sending at reference numeral at least a portion of the second sensor event messages to the first security system e.g. . In some embodiments the link module may perform the steps and or .

In some embodiments the method may also include selectively de linking the first security system and the second security system based on one or more de link conditions. The one or more de link conditions may include a disarming event at one of the first and second security systems for example. In some embodiments the one or more de link conditions may be determined and configured by a user of at least one of the first and second security systems.

In other embodiments the method may also include displaying on a second control unit e.g. for the second security system e.g. at least a portion of the first sensor event messages received from the first security system e.g. . Similarly the method may involve displaying on the first control unit e.g. for the first security system e.g. at least a portion of the one or more second sensor event messages received from the second security system e.g. . The method may further involve sending first commands for the second security system e.g. which first commands originated with the first security system e.g. to the second security system e.g. .

In some embodiments method may further include establishing a video and audio communication session between the first and second security systems. Establishing the video and audio communications session may be performed between a first control unit e.g. of the first security system e.g. and a second control unit e.g. of the second security system e.g. . The established video and audio communication session may enable a first user of the second control unit to communicate with a second user of the first control unit. The video and audio communication session may be automatically established upon the first and second security systems selectively linking in response to one or more link conditions. In some embodiments the video and audio communication session may be automatically terminated upon the first and second security systems selectively de linking in response to one or more delink conditions.

Although the foregoing description contains many specifics these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosure or of any of the appended claims but merely as providing information pertinent to some specific embodiments that may fall within the scopes of the disclosure and the appended claims. Features from different embodiments may be employed in combination. In addition other embodiments of the disclosure may also be devised which lie within the scopes of the disclosure and the appended claims. The scope of the disclosure is therefore indicated and limited only by the appended claims and their legal equivalents. All additions deletions and modifications to the disclosure as disclosed herein that fall within the meaning and scopes of the claims are to be embraced by the claims.

