---

title: Automatic determination of device mode based on use characteristics
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are disclosed for generating a baseline use profile that indicates typical patterns of use of a device over time, transitioning the device to a challenge mode when sensor data indicates a deviation from the baseline use profile by more than a permissible tolerance, presenting challenges to the user while in the challenge mode, and determining whether to restrict or allow access to device functionality based on user responses to the challenges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398143&OS=09398143&RS=09398143
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09398143
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140811
---
Mobile devices and mobile device connectivity have become virtually ubiquitous over the last decade or so. As a result mobile device users are generally able to stay connected regardless of where they may be located or the circumstances in which they may use their devices. However despite this ability to communicate at will there are a number of situations in which it may not be advisable for a mobile device user to use his her device to communicate with others.

This disclosure relates to among other things devices methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for determining a baseline use profile using sensor data generated from user interactions with a device presenting challenges to a user if a deviation from the baseline use profile exceeds an acceptable tolerance and determining whether to restrict device functionality based on user responses to the challenges.

In an example scenario a user may use a user device such as a smartphone or a tablet device in a variety of behavioral states. For example the user may operate his smartphone while fully alert or while in a semi alert state such as while sleepy or inebriated. When in a semi alert state the user may not be as adept in operating his smartphone as when he is fully alert. For example the semi alert user may apply gestures to a display of the smartphone with reduced accuracy or precision. As another example the user s semi alert state may cause the smartphone to exhibit greater vibration or movement than would typically be the case.

In addition when the user s faculties are impaired such as when the user is inebriated he may demonstrate impaired judgment. One of the ways in which the user s impaired judgment may manifest itself is in the use of his smartphone. In particular when inebriated or otherwise impaired the user may make questionable decisions regarding whether and with whom to initiate communications using his smartphone. For example the inebriated user may place a call or send a text message an instant message or an e mail to an individual with whom he would not have chosen if sober to communicate with while his faculties were impaired. As another example the inebriated user may say things or include content in a written message that may prove damaging to his reputation or career.

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide techniques for determining if a user s faculties may be impaired potentially due to inebriation and if so determined presenting the user with challenges where the user s responses to the challenges dictate whether the user will be permitted to access certain device functionality such as initiating phone calls or transmitting electronic messages.

In order to determine whether a user s faculties may be impaired a baseline use profile may be generated from sensor data representative of the user s interactions with the smartphone. Various types of sensor data may be collected. The sensor data may indicate how the user interacts with the smartphone over time. For example the smartphone may be provided with an inertial sensor such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or the like that gathers data representative of movement or vibration of the smartphone along one or more axes. A user s speed and or acceleration may be calculated from the inertial sensor data. As another example various biometric sensors may be provided to measure any of a variety of types of biometric data such as for example body temperature pulse rate electrical activity of the heart e.g. electrocardiography ECG data and so forth. As yet another example the smartphone may be provided with a magnetometer that acts as a compass for gathering directional data. As still another example touch input data may be generated from touch events detected at a touch sensitive display of the smartphone. The touch events may correspond to any type of gesture such as for example a tap a swipe or a multi touch gesture. As still another example image data may be captured by a camera of the smartphone such as for example an infrared camera a camera with an optical sensor such as a charge coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor an optical image stabilizer or the like. The image data may reveal changes in the user s position e.g. the user s head the user s fingertip etc. with respect to the smartphone over time color changes to the user s skin and so forth. Various biometric data such as pulse rate may be determined from such changes revealed by the image data. The sensor data may include timestamp data or the like that corresponds to a time period during which the associated user interactions occur.

In certain example scenarios the sensor data may include data generated from an object tracking system. The object tracking system may include one or more cameras e.g. front facing cameras on a smartphone one or more inertial sensors or the like. The object tracking system may periodically generate an x y z coordinate representing a detected location of an object e.g. a user s head hand fingertip etc. in relation to a reference point and an associated timestamp corresponding to a time at which that location was detected. The reference point may be associated with a user device that incorporates the object tracking system such as for example a particular portion of a display of the user device. Sensor data of this nature may be generated from user interactions that do that involves physical contact with a device.

While in a configuration mode the smartphone may calculate various metrics from the sensor data. For example baseline user dexterity metrics may be generated that reflect a baseline level of dexterity with which the user operates the smartphone. The baseline user dexterity metrics may include an average duration of taps the average time between initiation and cessation of a tap an average distance traveled along the display during taps an average deviation between locations on the display corresponding to initiation of taps and reference locations of the display e.g. an average distance between one or more pixels corresponding to initiation of a tap and one or more pixels corresponding to a center location of an icon button or the like an average swipe angle an average swipe distance an average deviation of swipes from corresponding swipe reference lines and so forth. The baseline user dexterity metrics may also include an average amount of vibration or movement of the smartphone e.g. an average acceleration an average speed etc. as gleaned from the inertial sensor data.

In addition to baseline user dexterity metrics baseline biometric metrics e.g. average pulse rate average skin tone etc. may be calculated from biometric sensor data as well. While averages have been described as examples the baseline user dexterity metrics and or baseline biometric metrics may include any suitable statistical quantities such as medians modes or the like. In addition the baseline user dexterity metrics and or baseline biometric metrics may include instantaneous metrics e.g. a duration of a particular tap a distance travelled along the display for a particular tap a change in position of an object such as a user s eyes head or fingertip etc. or metrics over an interval of time e.g. a distribution of tap durations a distribution of distances traveled during taps or the like over some interval of time . While example embodiments of the disclosure may be described herein with reference to user dexterity metrics it should be appreciated that such embodiments are equally applicable to other types of metrics such as biometric metrics.

A baseline use profile for the smartphone may then be determined from the baseline user dexterity metrics. Image data may also be used to generate the baseline use profile. For example an average amount of infrared radiation emitted by the user over some period of time may be determined from the image data and included in the baseline use profile. Further biometric data collected from sensors may be included in the baseline use profile. As such the baseline use profile may indicate patterns of use of the smartphone over time as reflected by the baseline user dexterity metrics and optionally as reflected by other information gleaned from the sensor data e.g. image data biometric data etc. . In certain example scenarios the baseline use profile may include the baseline user dexterity metrics or other baseline metrics a statistical distribution of a baseline user dexterity metric or other baseline metric a standard deviation or variance of a baseline user dexterity metric or other baseline metric or any other suitable data reflecting a baseline pattern of use of the smartphone.

The baseline use profile may be generated as part of a configuration mode of operation of the smartphone. In particular the smartphone may execute background processing to analyze the sensor data generate the baseline user dexterity metrics and determine the baseline use profile while the user operates the smartphone as part of his daily use. Multiple training sessions may be employed over any suitable period of time e.g. days weeks etc. to smooth out isolated gross deviations in the sensor data and to increase the accuracy of the baseline user dexterity metrics and the baseline use profile. Generation of the baseline use profile in this manner may rely on an assumption that the user s faculties are not impaired the majority of the time that he uses the smartphone. The baseline use profile may be continually refined over time as additional sensor data is generated. Refinement of the baseline use profile may cease if variance in the baseline user dexterity metrics falls below predetermined threshold s .

In certain example scenarios the baseline use profile may be specific to a particular device and thus may reflect typical use characteristics of the device by one or more users. A baseline use profile associated with a user device may be generated using metrics derived from a single user s interactions with the device or from user interactions involving multiple users. For example even if the smartphone is shared among multiple users e.g. a family of users the baseline use profile may represent a collective pattern of use of the multiple users. Alternatively a user may first be authenticated by the user device prior to assessing that user s pattern of use of the device such that the user s corresponding baseline use profile may be transferrable to another device. For example a baseline use profile representative of an authenticated user s interactions with the smartphone may be stored as part of the user s profile or account such that when that same user is authenticated on a different device e.g. a tablet device the baseline use profile corresponding to the user s profile or account can be retrieved.

While in the configuration mode or another operational mode the smartphone may continually gather and analyze additional sensor data relating to additional user interactions with the smartphone. This additional sensor data may be compared against the baseline use profile to determine whether enough of a deviation exists to transition the smartphone from the configuration mode to a challenge mode in which user challenges are presented to the user. For example if the additional sensor data indicates that the additional user interactions with the smartphone are not within a threshold tolerance of the baseline use profile the smartphone may transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode. More particularly in certain example scenarios the smartphone may compare a baseline user dexterity metric of the baseline use profile to a corresponding metric generated from the additional sensor data to determine whether they deviate by more than a threshold value.

The threshold value may be determined from a distribution in baseline values from which the baseline user dexterity metric is calculated where the distribution indicates an expected baseline variation in the metric. For example if the baseline user dexterity metric is a touch metric representative of the precision of touch events e.g. an average duration of taps an average deviation in initial points of contact of taps and reference points on a display such as a set of pixels corresponding to the center of an icon etc. a distribution of baseline values from which the baseline metric is calculated may be determined and the expected variation in the baseline metric may correspond to an expected amount of variation in touch precision. For example a distribution of tap durations may be determined over a period of time during which sensor data is evaluated to generate the baseline use profile. A mean tap duration may then be determined as a baseline user dexterity metric and the expected variation in tap duration may be determined from the distribution of tap durations from which the mean tap duration is calculated. For example the expected variation in tap duration may be proportional to the standard deviation of the distribution from the mean tap duration e.g. one standard deviation . If the baseline user dexterity metric is a motion metric such as a mean level of acceleration of the user device along one or more axes then the expected variation in the metric may be determined from a distribution of instantaneous acceleration values over some period of time and may be proportional to the standard deviation of the distribution of acceleration values from the mean level of acceleration.

It should be appreciated that in certain example scenarios different expected variations in touch precision and or movement may be associated with different types of user interfaces. For example a lesser variation in touch precision may be expected for a touch sensitive display than an expected variation in user movement for an object tracking interface or an expected variation in audio input received by an audio input interface. Accordingly a threshold tolerance in deviation from the baseline use profile may account for differing levels of expected dexterity associated with different mechanisms for user interaction with a device.

It should be appreciated that in certain example scenarios user dexterity metric values calculated from additional sensor data may not be compared against the corresponding baseline user dexterity metric to determine whether to transition to the challenge mode. Rather in certain example scenarios the user dexterity metric values calculated from the additional sensor data may be analyzed to determine a variation in the calculated values which may then be compared against an expected permissible variation determined from a distribution of values from which the baseline user dexterity metric is calculated. For example as part of determining the baseline use profile an average baseline tap precision e.g. an average distance between an initial point of contact of a tap on a display and a reference point on the display may be determined. In addition a variation in the baseline tap precision values from which the average baseline tap precision is calculated may also be determined. Subsequently additional tap precision values may be calculated from additional sensor data that is captured and an average of those values may be calculated. A variation of the additional tap precision values from the average of those values may then be compared to the variation in the baseline tap precision values from the baseline average tap precision to determine whether the variation of the additional tap precision values indicates a greater than expected variation and thus potential impairment of the user.

In certain scenarios a sustained deviation may need to be present before the smartphone transitions to the challenge mode. For example a deviation that is in excess of a permissible tolerance from a baseline user dexterity metric may need to be sustained for a threshold period of time before the smartphone is transitioned to the challenge mode. In this manner isolated gross deviations caused for example by a user s momentary loss of balance or the like may be prevented from causing a transition to the challenge mode. In certain scenarios isolated gross deviations having a duration less than a threshold period of time which may be the same as or different from a threshold period of time that deviations from the baseline use profile that exceed the permissible tolerance are required to persist may be ignored for the purposes of determining whether to transition to challenge mode or may be smoothed out so as not to exhibit a deviation from the baseline use profile that exceeds a permissible tolerance. Any suitable smoothing function technique or algorithm may be employed such as for example a moving average additive smoothing linear quadratic estimation various types of analog or digital filters e.g. Butterworth filter Chebyshev filter etc. Laplacian smoothing a Savitzky Golay filter and so forth. In other example scenarios if a threshold number of deviations that exceed the permissible tolerance from the baseline use profile occur over a specified period of time the smartphone may transition to the challenge mode regardless of the durations of the deviations.

In still other example scenarios deviations from the baseline use profile may be smoothed based on contextual data. For example sensor data corresponding to use of the smartphone at a work location during typical work hours where such use may be gleaned for example from location data and or network connectivity data may be smoothed on the basis that deviations from the baseline use profile that are present in such data and that are in excess of a permissible tolerance likely do not reflect potential impairment. Alternatively if the contextual data indicates a low likelihood of potential impairment the threshold period of time over which such deviations must be sustained in order to cause a transition to challenge mode may be correspondingly increased. Along similar lines sensor data corresponding to use conditions reflective of an intermediate or high likelihood of potential impairment may not be smoothed or threshold periods of time over which deviations from the baseline use profile that are present in such sensor data and that exceed a permissible tolerance are required to persist may be reduced.

Contextual data indicative of an intermediate or high likelihood of potential impairment which may in turn result in a lesser permissible tolerance from the baseline use profile or a lesser threshold period of time over which impermissible deviations from the baseline use profile must persist may relate to for example a time of day e.g. Friday at 5 00 PM or a location at which the smartphone is being used e.g. a bar . For example a first threshold tolerance may be lowered to a second threshold tolerance based on the presence of contextual data such that sensor data that deviates from the baseline use profile by more than the second threshold tolerance but less the first threshold tolerance may nonetheless cause the smartphone to transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode. In addition the smartphone may transition to the challenge mode based on identified correlations between contextual data. For example it may be determined that the smartphone is located in the parking lot of a sports stadium at a time prior to a scheduled sporting event thereby indicating a greater potential for inebriation or otherwise impaired user faculties.

After transitioning to the challenge mode the user may be presented with user challenges prior to being permitted to access certain functionality of the smartphone such as voice calling instant messaging e mail messaging or short message service SMS messaging. The challenges may include games puzzles questions e.g. trivia questions and so forth. The challenges may have a difficulty level that does not exceed the capabilities of a typical user with non impaired faculties. In certain example scenarios various challenges may be presented to the user while the smartphone is in the configuration mode in order to gauge the user s ability to respond to the challenges when in a non impaired state. The baseline use profile may then reflect any deviations between the user s responses to these initial challenges presented in the configuration mode and default response data.

While in the challenge mode the user s response to a challenge may be evaluated against expected response data. The expected response data may correspond to a response that a typical user is expected to provide. Alternatively the expected response data may correspond to a response that the particular user of the smartphone is expected to provide based for example on responses received from the user to challenges presented while in the configuration mode. If the user s response deviates from the expected response data by more than a threshold tolerance or in other words the user fails the challenge s the user may be prohibited from accessing restricted functionality such as voice calling electronic messaging etc. In addition in certain example scenarios various actions may be initiated if the user fails the challenge s . For example another user e.g. a contact from a contact list who is determined to be located in proximity to the user may be informed of the user s potential impairment. As another example a voice call or electronic communication to a taxi service may be automatically initiated. As yet another example an impairment flag or some other form of metadata may be communicated to a peripheral networked device to cause additional actions to be taken to mitigate effects of the user s potential impairment. For example the impairment metadata may be communicated to a network interface associated with an automobile via for example a suitable wireless communication technology e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi a cellular communications network etc. . Upon receipt of the impairment metadata a controller may disable the ignition switch or otherwise prevent operation of the automobile for a predetermined period of time or until the user is determined to be no longer impaired. For example the impairment metadata may reflect a degree of potential impairment and the amount of time that needs to elapse before the user is determined to be no longer impaired may be determined from a time decay function that receives the impairment metadata as input. As yet another example if the user is determined to be potentially impaired he may be allowed to generate an electronic communication e.g. an e mail or place an online order but transmission of the communication or processing transmission of the online order may not be performed. Rather the electronic communication or online order may be queued and presented to the user at a later time when the user is determined not to be impaired to allow the user to modify cancel the communication or online order. In other scenarios if the user fails a challenge and thus is determined to be potentially impaired a cancellation period for the online order may be extended and or a notification requesting confirmation of the order may be sent to the user after a period of time has elapsed. Any number of additional actions designed to mitigate the effects of the user s potential impairment may additionally or alternatively be taken.

In certain example scenarios the threshold tolerance used to evaluate deviations between the response data and expected response data may require that the user s response be completely accurate while in other scenarios a certain degree of inaccuracy may be permitted. For example in certain scenarios the user may need to provide an accurate solution to a puzzle or an accurate answer to all questions posed in a challenge while in other scenarios partial inaccuracy may be permitted e.g. a partial solution to a puzzle a certain number of acceptable incorrect answers etc. . Further in certain scenarios if the user fails a challenge the user may be allowed to attempt the challenge a predetermined number of additional times prior to restricting access to the device functionality.

In certain example scenarios a challenge may be chosen based on a correspondence between user capabilities that the challenge is intended to measure and the nature of the deviation from the baseline use profile that is observed. For example if the additional sensor data that is captured indicates a deviation in touch precision from the baseline use profile the challenge chosen may be designed to measure the user s touch precision. An example of a challenge designed to measure touch precision may be one that requires the user to touch relatively small targets randomly displayed on a touch sensitive display of the device over a relatively short period of time. As another example if the additional sensor data that is captured indicates a deviation in movement of the device from the baseline use profile by more than an expected amount of variation in movement the challenge chosen may be designed to measure the user s steadiness.

Referring now to which depicts an illustrative use case an example event flow involving a sober user A is depicted in the portion of the figure above the dashed line. The user A may be assumed to be sober if for example sensor data captured by the smartphone indicates that the user s interaction with the smartphone is within a threshold tolerance of the baseline use profile. At stage the user may attempt to access a list of contacts on the smartphone. Because the smartphone is not currently in the challenge mode the sober user A may be permitted to access the contacts list at stage and may be permitted to select an intended recipient Boss of a voice call. At stage the call to the user s Boss may be initiated.

If an analysis of sensor data in relation to the baseline use profile indicates a deviation that exceeds the threshold tolerance the smartphone may transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode. More specifically deviation from the baseline use profile by more than the threshold tolerance may indicate that the user may have impaired faculties. An example event flow that may occur while in the challenge mode is depicted in the portion of below the dashed line.

A potentially inebriated user B may attempt at stage to access a list of contacts on the smartphone. Because the smartphone is in the challenge mode a user challenge may be presented to the user B at stage . The potentially inebriated user B may respond to the challenge by applying touches or gestures to a touch sensitive display of the smartphone providing an audible response that is captured by a microphone of the smartphone and so forth. Response data generated from the user s B interaction with the smartphone in responding to the challenge may then be compared to expected response data to determine whether the response data is within a threshold tolerance of the expected response data. If so it may be determined that the user B has passed the challenge and at stage the user B may be permitted to access the contact list and select an intended recipient Boss of a voice call. At stage the call to the user s Boss may be initiated.

On the other hand if the response data deviates from the expected response data by more than the threshold tolerance it may be determined that the user B has failed the challenge and at stage the user B may be restricted from accessing various device functionality such as voice calling features electronic messaging capabilities and so forth. In some example scenarios the user B may be prohibited from accessing the contact list launching an electronic messaging application e.g. an e mail application or launching a social networking application at all while in certain other scenarios the user B may be permitted access to a contact list call records stored SMS messages stored e mails a social networking application or the like but may be prohibited from initiating and transmitting new communications. Further in certain example scenarios the user B may be permitted to respond to the challenge a certain number of additional times and device functionality may only be restricted after a predetermined number of failed attempts to correctly respond to the challenge. In addition in certain example scenarios even if the user B correctly responds to an initial challenge one or more additional challenges of varying difficulty may be presented to the user B prior to permitting access to desired device functionality.

In certain example scenarios even if the user B fails the challenge s and is restricted from accessing certain device functionality the user B may nonetheless be permitted to access other device functionality. For example at stage the user B may be permitted to place voice calls or transmit electronic messages to emergency numbers e.g. 911 access certain other applications on the smartphone e.g. games applications that do not enable communication with contacts or other intended recipients etc. or the like. Further in certain example scenarios the user B may be permitted to accept incoming voice calls or review incoming electronic messages. In addition in certain example scenarios various contacts numbers social networking profiles or the like may have been previously tagged or otherwise designated such that the user B may be permitted to initiate or transmit communications to the tagged recipients even if the user B has failed the challenge s . Conversely in certain example scenarios contacts numbers social networking profiles or the like that the user B is prohibited from communicating with if he fails the challenge s may be tagged such that the user B is nonetheless permitted to initiate communication with non tagged recipients. It should be appreciated that merely depicts an example scenario and that any of a variety of other types of actions may be taken to mitigate effects of the potential impairment of the user B. For example impairment metadata may be communicated to peripheral devices to prevent the user B from engaging in potentially harmful activities e.g. operating an automobile . Further as previously described electronic communications generated by the user B may be queued for subsequent review modification by the user. Still further online orders may be queued for subsequent review modification by the user prior to transmission a cancellation period of an online order may be lengthened a notification requesting confirmation of an online order may be sent to the user after a period of time has elapsed and so forth.

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide a number of advantages or technical effects. For example in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure a baseline use profile may be generated by executing training sessions as part of background processing performed on a user device in a manner that does not impact use of the device by a user. Further the device may seamlessly transition from a configuration mode to a challenge mode based on a detected deviation from the baseline use profile and or based on contextual data that may reflect potential diminished faculties of the user. In addition while in the challenge mode the potentially impaired user may be presented with challenges to minimize the risk that the user initiates potentially damaging communications using the device. It should be appreciated that the above examples of advantages and or technical effects of example embodiments of the disclosure are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. The above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the scope of this disclosure and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Accordingly variations modifications and equivalents of embodiments disclosed herein are also within the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments and additional and or alternative embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings.

The device may be configured to communicate via one or more networks not shown with one or more servers user devices or the like. Such network s may include but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further such network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition such network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

In an illustrative configuration the device may include one or more processors processor s one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory one or more input output I O interface s one or more network interfaces one or more sensors or sensor interfaces one or more transceivers and data storage . The device may further include one or more buses that functionally couple various components of the device . The device may further include one or more antennas that may include without limitation a cellular antenna for transmitting or receiving signals to from a cellular network infrastructure an antenna for transmitting or receiving Wi Fi signals to from an access point AP a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS antenna for receiving GNSS signals from a GNSS satellite a Bluetooth antenna for transmitting or receiving Bluetooth signals a Near Field Communication NFC antenna for transmitting or receiving NFC signals and so forth. These various components will be described in more detail hereinafter.

The bus es may include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and may permit exchange of information e.g. data including computer executable code signaling etc. between various components of the device . The bus es may include without limitation a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and so forth. The bus es may be associated with any suitable bus architecture including without limitation an Industry Standard Architecture ISA a Micro Channel Architecture MCA an Enhanced ISA EISA a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA architecture an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP architecture a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI architecture a PCI Express architecture a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA architecture a Universal Serial Bus USB architecture and so forth.

The memory of the device may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L1 L2 etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause the processor s to perform or initiate various operations. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more operating systems O S one or more database management systems DBMS and one or more program modules applications or the like such as for example one or more baseline use profile determination modules one or more device mode determination modules one or more challenge modules and one or more device functionality restriction modules . The data storage may further store any of a variety of other types of modules such as for example one or more application modules associated with one or more applications executable on the device . Further any program modules stored in the data storage may include one or more sub modules.

In addition the data storage may store various types of data that may be provided as input to a program module or generated as a result of execution of computer executable instructions of a program module such as for example sensor data A challenge data B challenge response data C user dexterity metrics D device functionality restriction data E and contextual data F. Any of the modules depicted in may include computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loaded into the memory for execution by one or more of the processor s . Further any data stored in the data storage may be loaded into the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code. It should be appreciated that data as that term is used herein includes computer executable instructions code or the like.

The sensor data A may include data generated by one or more of the sensor s as a user interacts with the device over time. The sensor data A may include for example data captured by an inertial sensor such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or the like that indicates movement or vibration of the device along one or more axes. A user s speed and or acceleration may be calculated from the inertial sensor data. As another example the sensor data A may include any of a variety of types of biometric data such as for example body temperature pulse rate electrical activity of the heart e.g. ECG data and so forth. As another example the sensor data A may include directional data captured by a magnetometer. As yet another example the sensor data A may include touch input data generated from touch events detected at a touch sensitive display of the device . The touch events may correspond to any type of gesture such as for example a tap a swipe or a multi touch gesture. As still another example the sensor data A may include image data that may be captured by a camera of the device such as for example an infrared camera a camera with an optical sensor such as a CCD or CMOS sensor an optical image stabilizer or the like. The image data may reveal changes in a user s position e.g. the user s head with respect to the device over time color changes to the user s skin and so forth. Various biometric data such as pulse rate may also be determined from such changes revealed by the image data.

The challenge data B may include data representative of challenges that may be presented to a user either in the configuration mode as part of processing to determine a baseline use profile for the device or in the challenge mode. The challenge data B may include computer executable code instructions other data or the like that is representative of challenges that may be presented to the user via for example a display of the device and or computer executable code instructions other data or the like that facilitates presentation of such challenges. The challenge data B may further include a difficulty score or other identifier that indicates the relative difficulty of a challenge. The challenge data B may also include data that indicates the number of times a user may be permitted to solve a challenge before access to device functionality is restricted the amount of time that a user is given for solving a challenge algorithms for determining the order in which challenges are to be presented to a user and so forth.

The challenge response data C may include data representative of user responses provided to presented challenges. For example the challenge response data C may indicate solutions provided by a user to a challenge e.g. a puzzle solution an answer to a trivia question etc. . The challenge response data C may further include expected response data. The expected response data may indicate a default response that a typical user is expected to provide a default time period in which the typical user is expected to provide the response and so forth. In certain example embodiments the challenge response data C may include expected response data gleaned from presentation of challenges to a user while the device is in the configuration mode. As previously discussed various challenges may be presented to a user while the device is in the configuration mode in order to gauge the user s ability to respond to the challenges when in a non impaired state. Any deviation between the response data received from the user while in the configuration mode and default expected response data may be reflected in the baseline use profile. In this manner if a user response to a challenge is within a permissible tolerance of a response that he she is expected to provide the user may be permitted to access device functionality even if the user response deviates from default expected response data by more than the permissible tolerance.

The user dexterity metrics D may include any suitable metric that is derived from sensor data and that provides a measure of a user s dexterity in operating the device . For example the user dexterity metrics may include an average duration of taps the average time between initiation and cessation of a tap an average distance traveled along the display during taps an average deviation between locations on the display corresponding to initiation of taps and reference locations of the display e.g. an average distance between one or more pixels corresponding to an initial point of contact and one or more pixels corresponding to a center location of an icon a button or the like an average swipe angle an average deviation of swipes from corresponding swipe reference lines and so forth. The user dexterity metrics D may also include an average amount of vibration or movement of the smartphone as gleaned from inertial sensor data. While averages have been described as examples the user dexterity metrics D may include any suitable statistical quantities such as medians modes or the like.

The device functionality restriction data E may include data that indicates device functionality that a user may be restricted from accessing if the user fails challenges presented in the challenge mode. As previously noted such device functionality may include voice calling electronic messaging or the like. The device functionality restriction data E may further include data that indicates device functionality that a user may be permitted to access even if the user fails challenges presented in the challenge mode. For example the device functionality restriction data E may indicate that the user is permitted to place voice calls or transmit electronic messages to emergency numbers e.g. 911 accept incoming calls or review incoming electronic messages access certain other applications on the device e.g. games applications that do not enable communication with contacts or other intended recipients etc. or the like even if the user has failed challenge s and has been restricted from accessing other device functionality.

In certain example embodiments the device functionality restriction data E may indicate that a user is entirely prohibited from accessing any voice calling features launching any electronic messaging application e.g. an e mail application or launching any social networking application. In other example embodiments the device functionality restriction data E may specify a less restrictive permission level for the user such as one that allows the user to access certain voice calling features e.g. a contact list call records etc. stored SMS messages stored e mails a social networking application or the like but prohibits the user from initiating and transmitting new communications if the user fails the challenge s . In addition in certain example embodiments the device functionality restriction data E may tag or otherwise designate various contacts numbers social networking profiles or the like to indicate that the user is permitted to initiate or transmit communications to the tagged recipients even if the user has failed the challenge s . Conversely in certain example embodiments the device functionality restriction data E may tag or otherwise designate contacts numbers social networking profiles or the like that the user is prohibited from communicating with if he fails the challenge s . In such example embodiments however the user may be permitted to initiate communication with non tagged recipients. Further in certain example embodiments the device functionality restriction data E may specify based on the presence or absence of a tag or other designation that a user is permitted or prohibited from accepting an incoming call after it has been determined that the user has failed the presented challenge.

In addition in certain example embodiments the device functionality restriction data E may indicate that any of a variety of other actions are to be taken if a user fails a challenge such as for example transmitting a notification to a recipient determined to be located in proximity to the user informing the recipient of the user s potential impairment initiating a voice call or an electronic communication to a taxi service communicating impairment data to a peripheral networked device to disable operation of the device for a period of time e.g. disable an automobile preventing transmission of an electronic communication e.g. an e mail and storing the communication for presentation to the user at a later time when the user is determined not to be impaired to allow the user to modify cancel the communication preventing completion of an online purchase and storing the online purchase information e.g. caching the state of online shopping cart for presentation to the user at a later time to allow the user to modify cancel the purchase allowing completion of an online purchase but extending a cancellation period for the purchase and or a transmitting a notification to the user requesting confirmation of the purchase after a period of time has elapsed and so forth.

The device functionality restriction data E may additionally include data indicative of acceptable tolerances between challenge response data C representative of user responses to challenges and the corresponding challenges. For example the device functionality restriction data E may indicate one or more threshold values representing a permissible deviation between challenge response data and a corresponding challenge that if exceeded may result in the user failing the challenge.

The contextual data F may include data representative of a time of day during which the device is being used a location at which the device is being used or the like. The contextual data F may further include data reflecting predetermined time ranges or predetermined locations that may be associated with a greater likelihood of impaired user faculties. In certain example embodiments these predetermined time ranges or locations may be generally applicable to a group of users. For example the contextual data F may indicate that the device is located at a bar or that the device is being used during a time when people typically socialize e.g. 5 PM on Friday . In other example embodiments the predetermined time ranges or predetermined locations may be specific to a particular user of the device . For example usage data may be collected on the device that indicates time periods of use locations and so forth of the device over time. Sensor data A that is determined to deviate from the baseline use profile by more than an acceptable tolerance over at least a specified duration of time may then be correlated with time periods of use and or locations of the device . In this manner the contextual data F may indicate time periods locations and so forth that may be indicative of specific impairment of a particular user.

The data may further include any of a variety of other types of data such as for example data indicative of acceptable tolerances between sensor data and a baseline use profile or more specifically in certain example embodiments acceptable tolerances between user dexterity metrics derived from the sensor data and baseline user dexterity metrics forming part of or from which the baseline use profile is generated. In particular the data may indicate one or more threshold values representing a permissible deviation between a user dexterity metric calculated from incoming sensor data and a baseline user dexterity metric. For example a tap duration may be calculated from touch input data corresponding to a particular tap and compared to an average tap duration indicated in the baseline use profile. If the permissible deviation is exceeded a transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode may occur. In certain example embodiments the data may further indicate a minimum time over which the deviation from the baseline use profile must be present in order to cause a transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode.

Referring now to functionality supported by the various program modules depicted in the baseline use profile determination module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to generate a baseline use profile for the device . As previously discussed the processing may be performed while the device is in the configuration mode and may include generating baseline user dexterity metrics D from sensor data A collected over a period of time and determining the baseline use profile based at least in part on the baseline user dexterity metrics D. The baseline use profile may indicate the various baseline user dexterity metrics generated from the sensor data A as well as distributions of the user dexterity metrics over time. As previously described a distribution of values of a user dexterity metric may be used to determine an expected permissible variation from the corresponding baseline user dexterity metric. For example a distribution of swipe angles may be used to determine an expected permissible deviation from the average swipe angle. In certain example embodiments various other types of metrics may be generated from the sensor data A and included in the baseline use profile. For example a metric e.g. an average amount of infrared radiation emitted by a user may be calculated from image sensor data and used at least in part to generate the baseline use profile. As another example any of a variety of baseline metrics may be determined from biometric data. Further in certain example embodiments a respective standard deviation may be determined for each of one or more baseline user dexterity metrics and included in the baseline use profile.

In certain example embodiments various touch metric values may be determined from sensor data A generated by one or more touch sensors of the sensor s . For example a tap duration may be determined by measuring the time elapsed between the initiation of a tap and the cessation of a tap. Initiation of tap may be detected based on a change in capacitance of resistance at one or more positions of an electrical grid of a capacitive or resistive touch sensitive display. Cessation of a tap may be detected based on a reversion in the change in capacitance or resistance to a default state. Similarly tap or swipe distance may be determined by calculating the distance between touch input coordinate s corresponding to an initial change in capacitance or resistance and touch input coordinate s corresponding to a cessation of the change of capacitance or resistance.

The device mode determination module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to determine whether the device should transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode or vice versa and if so determined to cause the transition. As previously described one or more sensors of the device may continually generate sensor data as the user interacts with the device . Computer executable instructions of the device mode determination module s may be executed to generate user dexterity metrics from the sensor data and compare the user dexterity metrics to baseline user dexterity metrics included in the baseline use profile to determine whether the sets of metrics deviate by more than a permissible tolerance. The permissible tolerance may be determined using a Bayesian technique a statistical quantity such as a standard deviation or the like. For example a particular user dexterity metric derived from the sensor data e.g. a tap duration of a particular tap may be compared to a baseline user dexterity metric e.g. an average tap duration indicated in the baseline use profile to determine whether it exceeds the baseline user dexterity metric by more than a threshold value. In certain example embodiments the threshold value may be proportional to a standard deviation of a baseline user dexterity metric or may be proportional to a combined standard deviation of multiple baseline user dexterity metrics.

If a deviation between a user dexterity metric and a baseline user dexterity metric exceeds a permissible tolerance computer executable instructions of the device mode determination module s may be executed to cause a transition of an operational mode of the device from the configuration mode to the challenge mode. In certain example embodiments the transition may only occur if the deviation persists for a predetermined amount of time. For example a block of time may be divided into buckets of equal duration and a user dexterity metric may be calculated for each time bucket from sensor data received during that period of time. For example a tap precision metric may be determined for each time interval having a duration of X minutes. Each such tap precision metric may be compared to a corresponding baseline tap precision metric to determine whether a deviation between the two exceeds a permissible tolerance. If the permissible tolerance is exceeded for a threshold number of consecutive time intervals computer executable instructions of the device mode determination module s may be executed to cause the device to transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode. Requiring a deviation to persist for a certain period of time before transitioning from the configuration mode to the challenge mode may prevent an unwarranted transition to the challenge mode based on isolated gross deviations that are not likely to be indicative of impaired user faculties.

In addition the device mode determination module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to transition the device from the challenge mode back to the configuration mode or another operational mode of the device . For example while the device is in the challenge mode user dexterity metrics may continue to be generated from sensor data and may be compared to baseline user dexterity metrics of the baseline use profile. If any deviation there between is within the permissible tolerance for a predetermined period of time computer executable instructions of the device mode determination module s may be executed to cause the device to transition from the challenge mode back to the configuration mode or to another operational mode of the device . In certain example embodiments the permissible tolerance may be adjusted e.g. lowered and or the predetermined period of time during which user dexterity metrics are required to be within the permissible tolerance of the baseline use profile may be lengthened while in the challenge mode as compared to the configuration mode. In this manner a premature transition out of the challenge mode may be avoided even if sensor data indicates a brief period of user lucidity.

In addition the challenge module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to present challenges to a user while in the challenge mode receive response data representative of user responses to the challenges and compare the response data to expected response to generate comparison results. The comparison results may indicate whether the response data is within a permissible tolerance of the expected response data. The challenge module s may further include computer executable instructions for presenting challenges to a user while in the configuration mode in order to determine any baseline deviation between the user s responses to the challenges and default response data.

The device functionality restriction module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to either restrict or permit access to device functionality based on the comparison results received from the challenge module s . The device functionality restriction module s may restrict or permit access to device functionality in accordance with the device functionality restriction data E. For example if the comparison results indicate that the response data deviates from the expected response data by more than the acceptable tolerance the device functionality restriction module s may restrict access to voice calling applications electronic messaging applications or the like. Further as previously described even if the comparison results indicate that the response data deviates from the expected response data by more than the acceptable tolerance the user may still be permitted to access certain device functionality including potentially certain communication functionality e.g. emergency dialing or messaging acceptance of incoming calls review of incoming electronic messages etc. . In addition in certain example embodiments the device functionality restriction module s may permit a user that has failed challenge s to nonetheless generate an electronic message e.g. an e mail message and may place the message in a queue without transmitting the message. The message may then be presented to the user at a later point in time if for example the device transitions out of the challenge mode or the user passes subsequent user challenges.

Referring now to other illustrative components depicted as being stored in the data storage the O S may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and may provide an interface between other application software executing on the device and hardware resources of the device . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the device and for providing common services to other application programs e.g. managing memory allocation among various application programs . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to any server operating system any mainframe operating system or any other proprietary or non proprietary operating system.

The DBMS may be loaded into the memory and may support functionality for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in the memory and or data stored in the data storage . The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages. The DBMS may access data represented in one or more data schemas and stored in any suitable data repository including but not limited to databases e.g. relational object oriented etc. file systems flat files distributed datastores in which data is stored on more than one node of a computer network peer to peer network datastores or the like. In those example embodiments in which the device is a mobile device the DBMS may be any suitable light weight DBMS optimized for performance on a mobile device.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the device the processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the user device to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

In addition the device may include one or more input output I O interfaces that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the device from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the device to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the device including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The device may further include one or more network interfaces via which the device may communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth. Such communication may occur via any of the types of networks previously described.

The antenna s may include any suitable type of antenna depending for example on the communications protocols used to transmit or receive signals via the antenna s . Non limiting examples of suitable antennas may include directional antennas non directional antennas dipole antennas folded dipole antennas patch antennas multiple input multiple output MIMO antennas or the like. The antenna s may be communicatively coupled to one or more transceivers or radio components to which or from which signals may be transmitted or received.

As previously described the antenna s may include a cellular antenna configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G standards e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA CDMA2000 etc. 4G standards e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE WiMax etc. direct satellite communications or the like.

The antenna s may additionally or alternatively include a Wi Fi antenna configured to transmit or receive signals in accordance with established standards and protocols such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards including via 2.4 GHz channels e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 5 GHz channels e.g. 802.11n 802.11ac or 60 GHZ channels e.g. 802.11ad . In alternative example embodiments the antenna s may be configured to transmit or receive radio frequency signals within any suitable frequency range forming part of the unlicensed portion of the radio spectrum.

The antenna s may additionally or alternatively include a GNSS antenna configured to receive GNSS signals from three or more GNSS satellites carrying time position information to triangulate a position therefrom. Such a GNSS antenna may be configured to receive GNSS signals from any current or planned GNSS such as for example the Global Positioning System GPS the GLONASS System the Compass Navigation System the Galileo System or the Indian Regional Navigational System.

The transceiver s may include any suitable radio component s for in cooperation with the antenna s transmitting or receiving radio frequency RF signals in the bandwidth and or channels corresponding to the communications protocols utilized by the device to communicate with other devices. The transceiver s may include hardware software and or firmware for modulating transmitting or receiving potentially in cooperation with any of antenna s communications signals according to any of the communications protocols discussed above including but not limited to one or more Wi Fi and or Wi Fi direct protocols as standardized by the IEEE 802.11 standards one or more non Wi Fi protocols or one or more cellular communications protocols or standards. The transceiver s may further include hardware firmware or software for receiving GNSS signals. The transceiver s may include any known receiver and baseband suitable for communicating via the communications protocols utilized by the device . The transceiver s may further include a low noise amplifier LNA additional signal amplifiers an analog to digital A D converter one or more buffers a digital baseband or the like.

The sensor s sensor interface s may include or may be capable of interfacing with any suitable type of sensing device such as for example inertial sensors force sensors thermal sensors image sensors magnetometers object tracking sensors and so forth. Example types of inertial sensors may include accelerometers e.g. MEMS based accelerometers gyroscopes and so forth.

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code or the like depicted in as being stored in the data storage are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the device and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more networks may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted in and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules depicted in may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules depicted in may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that the device may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the device are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

At block of method the user device may obtain sensor data relating to user interactions with the device over a period of time. The sensor data may include at least a portion of the sensor data A generated by one or more sensors . As previously described the sensor data may include without limitation touch data A generated as a result of touch events detected at a touch sensitive display of the device inertial sensor data B representative of movements or vibration of the device image data C and biometric data D.

At block one or more user challenges may be presented periodically to the user via the device . As previously noted user challenges may be presented to the user while the device is in the configuration mode in order to gauge the user s ability to respond to challenges when the user is presumed to be a non impaired state. At block response data representative of the user s responses to the challenges presented at block may be received.

At block the sensor data may be provided as input to a baseline use profile generation engine to generate one or more baseline user dexterity metrics from the sensor data . The baseline user dexterity metrics may include any of the types of metrics previously described. In certain example embodiments the baseline use profile generation engine may include the baseline use profile generation module s or may leverage functionality thereof.

At block computer executable instructions of the challenge module s may be executed to determine expected response data based on a comparison of the response data received at block to default response data. The default response data may indicate an expected accuracy or permissible inaccuracy tolerance for a general user. By comparing the actual response data received from the user to the default response data any deviations there between may be identified and expected response data may be generated that adjusts the expected accuracy or permissible inaccuracy tolerance of the default response data to compensate for the deviations. For example if the user is less adept at solving a particular challenge than a typical user the expected response data for that particular user may be associated with a larger permissible inaccuracy tolerance than the default response data allows. In this manner the expected response data may more closely reflect the abilities of a particular user in a non impaired state than the default response data.

At block the baseline use profile generation engine may generate a baseline use profile for the device based at least in part on the generated baseline user dexterity metrics and optionally further based on the expected response data . More specifically computer executable instructions of the baseline use profile generation module s may be executed to generate the baseline use profile . Any of the techniques previously described may be utilized to generate the baseline use profile . In addition to the baseline user dexterity metrics the baseline use profile may further include or reflect additional metrics derived from a distribution of values used to calculate the baseline user dexterity metrics such as for example a respective standard deviation of one or more baseline user dexterity metrics a respective probabilistic distribution of one or more baseline user dexterity metrics and so forth.

At block of method the user device may obtain sensor data relating to user interactions with the device over a period of time. The sensor data may include a portion of the sensor data A that is distinct from those portion s of the sensor data A used to generate the baseline use profile .

At block the device may obtain contextual data relating to use of the device . The contextual data may correspond to at least a portion of the contextual data F. As previously described the contextual data may include data relating to a time of day during which the device is being used a location at which the device is being used or the like. The contextual data may further include data reflecting predetermined time ranges or predetermined locations that may be associated with a greater likelihood of impaired user faculties. In certain example embodiments the predetermined time ranges or locations may be generally applicable to a group of users. In other example embodiments the predetermined time ranges or locations may be indicative of specific impairment of a particular user.

At block the baseline use profile may be retrieved from for example data storage . At block the baseline use profile and the sensor data may be provided to a device mode determination engine that is configured to determine if the sensor data indicates a deviation from the baseline use profile by more than an acceptable tolerance. In certain example embodiments the device mode determination engine may include the device mode determination module s or may leverage functionality thereof. The device mode determination engine may determine whether the sensor data indicates a deviation from the baseline use profile in accordance with any of the processes described earlier. For example the device mode determination engine may generate user dexterity metrics from the sensor data and compare the user dexterity metrics to the baseline user dexterity metrics used to generate the baseline use profile to determine whether the sets of metrics deviate by more than an acceptable tolerance e.g. a standard deviation of the baseline user dexterity metrics multiplied by a proportionality constant a threshold difference between the metrics etc. . As previously described the deviation may be required to persist for a predetermined period of time before the operational mode of the device is changed.

In response to a positive determination at block the device mode determination engine may determine that the user is potentially impaired and may transition the device from a current operational mode e.g. the configuration mode to the challenge mode at block . On the other hand in response to a negative determination at block the method may continue to block . At block the contextual data may be provided as input to the device mode determination engine which may in turn determine whether the contextual data satisfies criteria for switching an operational mode of the device from the configuration mode to the challenge mode . In particular even if the sensor data does not indicate an impermissible deviation from the baseline use profile the device mode determination engine may nonetheless transition the device from a current operational mode e.g. the configuration mode to the challenge mode if the contextual data indicates an increased likelihood that the user is impaired or may be impaired within the predetermined period of time. In certain example embodiments after the device has been transitioned to the challenge mode additional sensor data generated while the device is in the challenge mode may be evaluated against the baseline use profile to determine whether the device should transition out of the challenge mode. The acceptable tolerance in deviation between the additional sensor data and the baseline use profile may be lowered while the device is in the challenge mode in order prevent a premature transition out of the challenge mode. Additionally or alternatively a period of time over which the additional sensor data is required to be within the permissible tolerance of the baseline use profile may be increased while the device is in the challenge mode.

In response to a positive determination at block the device mode determination engine may transition the device from a current operational mode e.g. the configuration mode to the challenge mode at block . On the other hand in response to a negative determination at block the device mode determination engine may at block maintain the device in the current operational mode e.g. the configuration mode . The method may then proceed iteratively.

It should be appreciated that the determinations at blocks and may occur in any order and or may be combined as part of a single determination. For example in certain example embodiments if the contextual data is determined to satisfy initial criteria for transitioning an operational mode of the device the determination at block may nonetheless be performed to determine whether to actually transition the device to the challenge mode . However if the contextual data satisfies the initial criteria the acceptable tolerance may be narrowed such that less of a deviation from the baseline use profile is required to initiate a transition to the challenge mode . It should be appreciated that while example embodiments of the disclosure have been described as involving a transition from the configuration mode to the challenge mode the device may switch to the challenge mode from a mode of operation that is different from the configuration mode. For example after the baseline use profile is generated the device may transition from the configuration mode to an intermediate operational mode in which additional sensor data that is received is evaluated against the baseline use profile. The device may then transition to the challenge mode from the intermediate operational mode when a deviation from the baseline use profile that exceeds an acceptable tolerance occurs. In addition contextual data may be evaluated as described earlier.

In addition in certain example scenarios other aspects of a user s interaction with the device may be analyzed to determine whether to transition the device to the challenge mode. For example an electronic communication generated by the user may be analyzed prior to transmission in order to determine whether particular words or phrases are present in the electronic communication that have previously been identified as having a potentially negative connotation or effect. If such words or phrases are detected the device may be transitioned to the challenge mode and the electronic communication may only be transmitted if the user passes one or more challenges presented while in the challenge mode. In certain example embodiments even if the user passes the challenge s the communication may nonetheless not be transmitted and may be cached for later presentation to the user to enable the user to modify the communication if desired. In other example embodiments if the user passes the challenge s the communication may be transmitted only if it is directed to a recipient flagged as an approved recipient or not flagged as a restricted recipient.

At block of method the user device may detect an attempt to access device functionality. For example an attempt to launch a voice calling application an electronic messaging application a social networking application or the like may be detected. In other example embodiments an attempt to initiate a call or generate or transmit an electronic message to a particular recipient may be detected.

At block the challenge engine may present a user challenge to the user. The challenge engine may include the challenge module s or leverage functionality thereof. In particular computer executable instructions of the challenge module s may be executed to cause a user challenge to be presented to the user. The challenge may be a puzzle game set of one or more questions or the like that the user must provide one or more responses to prior to potentially being provided with access to the requested device functionality. At block the challenge engine may receive response data generated from inputs received from the user in response to the challenge.

At block the response data and expected response data for the challenge may be provided as inputs to the challenge engine which may determine based at least in part on the response data and the expected response data whether the response data deviates from expected response data for the challenge by more than an acceptable tolerance. The challenge engine may generate one or more comparison results indicative of this determination and may provide the comparison result s to the device functionality restriction module s .

In response to a negative determination at block the device functionality restriction module s may permit the user to access the requested device functionality in accordance with the device functionality restriction data E. For example the user may be permitted to place a voice call generate transmit an electronic message or the like to a desired recipient. In certain example embodiments in response to a positive determination at block the device functionality restriction module s may prevent the user from accessing the requested device functionality. In other example embodiments in response to a positive determination at block the challenge engine may present one or more additional challenges to the user at block .

At block the challenge engine may receive additional response data generated from input received from the user in response to the additional challenge s . At block the challenge engine may determine whether the additional response data deviates from the expected response data by more than an acceptable tolerance. The acceptable tolerance utilized at block may be a more or less permissive tolerance than the tolerance utilized at block . The challenge engine may generate one or more comparison results indicative of the determination at block and may provide the comparison result s to the device functionality restriction module s .

In response to a negative determination at block the device functionality restriction module s may permit the user to access the requested device functionality at block in accordance with the device functionality restriction data E. On the other hand in response to a negative determination at block the device functionality restriction module s may prevent the user from accessing the requested device functionality at block . In certain example embodiments user authentication processing may be performed prior to allowing access to the device functionality at block . For example image data captured by a camera of the device may be compared to stored image data to authenticate the user who responded to the challenge s . In addition sensor data e.g. touch data motion data biometric data etc. may be captured and analyzed to authenticate the user. For example user dexterity metrics e.g. touch metrics motion metrics etc. and or biometric metrics e.g. pulse rate may be calculated from the sensor data and compared to corresponding metrics of the baseline use profile to determine whether a sufficient correspondence exists there between to authenticate the user. In this manner the potentially impaired user may be precluded from circumventing the challenges by having another user respond to the challenges.

From block the method may proceed to block where feedback data may be received from the user. The feedback data may indicate that the user is not in an impaired state and thus that the device prematurely entered the challenge mode and unnecessarily presented challenges to the user. At block the feedback data may be used to modify the baseline use profile. For example an acceptable permissible tolerance for variation in dexterity e.g. variation in touch precision variation in movement of the device etc. may be increased based on the feedback data so that if sensor data that is similar to that which caused the device to enter the challenge mode is received in the future a transition to the challenge mode may be avoided. More specifically increasing the permissible acceptable tolerance in deviation from the baseline use profile may allow for greater variation between the baseline use profile and user dexterity metrics calculated from additional sensor data that is received.

One or more operations of the methods or may have been described above as being performed by a device or more specifically by one or more engines or one or more program modules executing on such a device. It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of methods or may be performed at least in part in a distributed manner by one or more other devices or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on such devices. In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself or by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing. While the operations of the methods or may be described in the context of the illustrative device it should be appreciated that such operations may be implemented in connection with numerous other device configurations.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative methods of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

