---

title: Supplemental cross-technology discovery
abstract: A method and an apparatus for wireless communication are provided. In one aspect, the apparatus may be a user equipment (UE), base station, or access point. The apparatus broadcasts peer discovery information in a high-level expression data structure that supports multiple discovery technologies from a variety of wireless networks. By using the high-level expression data, the apparatus may use a single, unified discovery application programming interface for signaling the presence of any supplemental cross-technology discovery information as such information became available. In another aspect, the apparatus may be a UE. The apparatus receives the broadcasted high-level expression data in a peer discovery signal and processes the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319862&OS=09319862&RS=09319862
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09319862
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140306
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems and more particularly to supplemental cross technology discovery for peer to peer communications.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various telecommunication services such as telephony video data messaging and broadcasts. Typical wireless communication systems may employ multiple access technologies capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . Examples of such multiple access technologies include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA systems and time division synchronous code division multiple access TD SCDMA systems.

These multiple access technologies have been adopted in various telecommunication standards to provide a common protocol that enables different wireless devices to communicate on a municipal national regional and even global level. An example of an emerging telecommunication standard is Long Term Evolution LTE . LTE is a set of enhancements to the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS mobile standard promulgated by Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . LTE is designed to better support mobile broadband Internet access by improving spectral efficiency lowering costs improving services making use of new spectrum and better integrating with other open standards using OFDMA on the downlink DL SC FDMA on the uplink UL and multiple input multiple output MIMO antenna technology. However as the demand for mobile broadband access continues to increase there exists a need for further improvements in LTE technology. Preferably these improvements should be applicable to other multi access technologies and the telecommunication standards that employ these technologies.

In an aspect of the disclosure a method a computer program product and an apparatus are provided. The apparatus may be a user equipment UE an access point or a base station. The apparatus transmits a first set of information in a first peer discovery signal with a first periodicity and a first peer discovery range. The apparatus transmits a second set of information in a second peer discovery signal with a second periodicity and a second peer discovery range the second periodicity being different from the first periodicity the second peer discovery range being less than the first peer discovery range the second set of information being associated with the first set of information.

In another aspect of the disclosure a method a computer program product and an apparatus are provided. The apparatus may be a UE. The apparatus receives a first set of information in a first peer discovery signal with a first periodicity and a first peer discovery range. The apparatus also receives a second set of information in a second peer discovery signal with a second periodicity and a second peer discovery range the second periodicity being different from the first periodicity the second peer discovery range being less than the first peer discovery range. The apparatus determines that the second set of information is associated with the first set of information.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various configurations and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the concepts described herein may be practiced. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of various concepts. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these concepts may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring such concepts.

Several aspects of telecommunication systems will now be presented with reference to various apparatus and methods. These apparatus and methods will be described in the following detailed description and illustrated in the accompanying drawings by various blocks modules components circuits steps processes algorithms etc. collectively referred to as elements . These elements may be implemented using electronic hardware computer software or any combination thereof. Whether such elements are implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system.

By way of example an element or any portion of an element or any combination of elements may be implemented with a processing system that includes one or more processors. Examples of processors include microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable logic devices PLDs state machines gated logic discrete hardware circuits and other suitable hardware configured to perform the various functionality described throughout this disclosure. One or more processors in the processing system may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions instruction sets code code segments program code programs subprograms software modules applications software applications software packages routines subroutines objects executables threads of execution procedures functions etc. whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise.

Accordingly in one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or encoded as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer storage media. Storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM compact disk ROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The E UTRAN includes the evolved Node B eNB and other eNBs and may include a Multicast Coordination Entity MCE . The eNB provides user and control planes protocol terminations toward the UE . The eNB may be connected to the other eNBs via a backhaul e.g. an X2 interface . The MCE allocates time frequency radio resources for evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS eMBMS and determines the radio configuration e.g. a modulation and coding scheme MCS for the eMBMS. The MCE may be a separate entity or part of the eNB . The eNB may also be referred to as a base station a Node B an access point a base transceiver station a radio base station a radio transceiver a transceiver function a basic service set BSS an extended service set ESS or some other suitable terminology. The eNB provides an access point to the EPC for a UE . Examples of UEs include a cellular phone a smart phone a session initiation protocol SIP phone a laptop a personal digital assistant PDA a satellite radio a global positioning system a multimedia device a video device a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a camera a game console a tablet or any other similar functioning device. The UE may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a user agent a mobile client a client or some other suitable terminology.

The eNB is connected to the EPC . The EPC may include a Mobility Management Entity MME a Home Subscriber Server HSS other MMEs a Serving Gateway a Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS Gateway a Broadcast Multicast Service Center BM SC and a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway . The MME is the control node that processes the signaling between the UE and the EPC . Generally the MME provides bearer and connection management. All user IP packets are transferred through the Serving Gateway which itself is connected to the PDN Gateway . The PDN Gateway provides UE IP address allocation as well as other functions. The PDN Gateway and the BM SC are connected to the IP Services . The IP Services may include the Internet an intranet an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS a PS Streaming Service PSS and or other IP services. The BM SC may provide functions for MBMS user service provisioning and delivery. The BM SC may serve as an entry point for content provider MBMS transmission may be used to authorize and initiate MBMS Bearer Services within a PLMN and may be used to schedule and deliver MBMS transmissions. The MBMS Gateway may be used to distribute MBMS traffic to the eNBs e.g. belonging to a Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network MBSFN area broadcasting a particular service and may be responsible for session management start stop and for collecting eMBMS related charging information.

The modulation and multiple access scheme employed by the access network may vary depending on the particular telecommunications standard being deployed. In LTE applications OFDM is used on the DL and SC FDMA is used on the UL to support both frequency division duplex FDD and time division duplex TDD . As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate from the detailed description to follow the various concepts presented herein are well suited for LTE applications. However these concepts may be readily extended to other telecommunication standards employing other modulation and multiple access techniques. By way of example these concepts may be extended to Evolution Data Optimized EV DO or Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB . EV DO and UMB are air interface standards promulgated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 as part of the CDMA2000 family of standards and employs CDMA to provide broadband Internet access to mobile stations. These concepts may also be extended to Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA employing Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA such as TD SCDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM employing TDMA and Evolved UTRA E UTRA IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 and Flash OFDM employing OFDMA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from the 3GPP organization. CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from the 3GPP2 organization. The actual wireless communication standard and the multiple access technology employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

The eNBs may have multiple antennas supporting MIMO technology. The use of MIMO technology enables the eNBs to exploit the spatial domain to support spatial multiplexing beamforming and transmit diversity. Spatial multiplexing may be used to transmit different streams of data simultaneously on the same frequency. The data streams may be transmitted to a single UE to increase the data rate or to multiple UEs to increase the overall system capacity. This is achieved by spatially precoding each data stream i.e. applying a scaling of an amplitude and a phase and then transmitting each spatially precoded stream through multiple transmit antennas on the DL. The spatially precoded data streams arrive at the UE s with different spatial signatures which enables each of the UE s to recover the one or more data streams destined for that UE . On the UL each UE transmits a spatially precoded data stream which enables the eNB to identify the source of each spatially precoded data stream.

Spatial multiplexing is generally used when channel conditions are good. When channel conditions are less favorable beamforming may be used to focus the transmission energy in one or more directions. This may be achieved by spatially precoding the data for transmission through multiple antennas. To achieve good coverage at the edges of the cell a single stream beamforming transmission may be used in combination with transmit diversity.

In the detailed description that follows various aspects of an access network will be described with reference to a MIMO system supporting OFDM on the DL. OFDM is a spread spectrum technique that modulates data over a number of subcarriers within an OFDM symbol. The subcarriers are spaced apart at precise frequencies. The spacing provides orthogonality that enables a receiver to recover the data from the subcarriers. In the time domain a guard interval e.g. cyclic prefix may be added to each OFDM symbol to combat inter OFDM symbol interference. The UL may use SC FDMA in the form of a DFT spread OFDM signal to compensate for high peak to average power ratio PAPR .

A UE may be assigned resource blocks in the control section to transmit control information to an eNB. The UE may also be assigned resource blocks in the data section to transmit data to the eNB. The UE may transmit control information in a physical UL control channel PUCCH on the assigned resource blocks in the control section. The UE may transmit only data or both data and control information in a physical UL shared channel PUSCH on the assigned resource blocks in the data section. A UL transmission may span both slots of a subframe and may hop across frequency.

A set of resource blocks may be used to perform initial system access and achieve UL synchronization in a physical random access channel PRACH . The PRACH carries a random sequence and cannot carry any UL data signaling. Each random access preamble occupies a bandwidth corresponding to six consecutive resource blocks. The starting frequency is specified by the network. That is the transmission of the random access preamble is restricted to certain time and frequency resources. There is no frequency hopping for the PRACH. The PRACH attempt is carried in a single subframe 1 ms or in a sequence of few contiguous subframes and a UE can make only a single PRACH attempt per frame 10 ms .

In the user plane the L2 layer includes a media access control MAC sublayer a radio link control RLC sublayer and a packet data convergence protocol PDCP sublayer which are terminated at the eNB on the network side. Although not shown the UE may have several upper layers above the L2 layer including a network layer e.g. IP layer that is terminated at the PDN gateway on the network side and an application layer that is terminated at the other end of the connection e.g. far end UE server etc. .

The PDCP sublayer provides multiplexing between different radio bearers and logical channels. The PDCP sublayer also provides header compression for upper layer data packets to reduce radio transmission overhead security by ciphering the data packets and handover support for UEs between eNBs. The RLC sublayer provides segmentation and reassembly of upper layer data packets retransmission of lost data packets and reordering of data packets to compensate for out of order reception due to hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ . The MAC sublayer provides multiplexing between logical and transport channels. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for allocating the various radio resources e.g. resource blocks in one cell among the UEs. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for HARQ operations.

In the control plane the radio protocol architecture for the UE and eNB is substantially the same for the physical layer and the L2 layer with the exception that there is no header compression function for the control plane. The control plane also includes a radio resource control RRC sublayer in Layer 3 L3 layer . The RRC sublayer is responsible for obtaining radio resources e.g. radio bearers and for configuring the lower layers using RRC signaling between the eNB and the UE.

The transmit TX processor implements various signal processing functions for the L1 layer i.e. physical layer . The signal processing functions include coding and interleaving to facilitate forward error correction FEC at the UE and mapping to signal constellations based on various modulation schemes e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM . The coded and modulated symbols are then split into parallel streams. Each stream is then mapped to an OFDM subcarrier multiplexed with a reference signal e.g. pilot in the time and or frequency domain and then combined together using an Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IFFT to produce a physical channel carrying a time domain OFDM symbol stream. The OFDM stream is spatially precoded to produce multiple spatial streams. Channel estimates from a channel estimator may be used to determine the coding and modulation scheme as well as for spatial processing. The channel estimate may be derived from a reference signal and or channel condition feedback transmitted by the UE . Each spatial stream may then be provided to a different antenna via a separate transmitter TX. Each transmitter TX may modulate an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

At the UE each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to the receive RX processor . The RX processor implements various signal processing functions of the L1 layer. The RX processor may perform spatial processing on the information to recover any spatial streams destined for the UE . If multiple spatial streams are destined for the UE they may be combined by the RX processor into a single OFDM symbol stream. The RX processor then converts the OFDM symbol stream from the time domain to the frequency domain using a Fast Fourier Transform FFT . The frequency domain signal comprises a separate OFDM symbol stream for each subcarrier of the OFDM signal. The symbols on each subcarrier and the reference signal are recovered and demodulated by determining the most likely signal constellation points transmitted by the eNB . These soft decisions may be based on channel estimates computed by the channel estimator . The soft decisions are then decoded and deinterleaved to recover the data and control signals that were originally transmitted by the eNB on the physical channel. The data and control signals are then provided to the controller processor .

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the UL the controller processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the core network. The upper layer packets are then provided to a data sink which represents all the protocol layers above the L2 layer. Various control signals may also be provided to the data sink for L3 processing. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

In the UL a data source is used to provide upper layer packets to the controller processor . The data source represents all protocol layers above the L2 layer. Similar to the functionality described in connection with the DL transmission by the eNB the controller processor implements the L2 layer for the user plane and the control plane by providing header compression ciphering packet segmentation and reordering and multiplexing between logical and transport channels based on radio resource allocations by the eNB . The controller processor is also responsible for HARQ operations retransmission of lost packets and signaling to the eNB .

Channel estimates derived by a channel estimator from a reference signal or feedback transmitted by the eNB may be used by the TX processor to select the appropriate coding and modulation schemes and to facilitate spatial processing. The spatial streams generated by the TX processor may be provided to different antenna via separate transmitters TX. Each transmitter TX may modulate an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

The UL transmission is processed at the eNB in a manner similar to that described in connection with the receiver function at the UE . Each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to a RX processor . The RX processor may implement the L1 layer.

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the UL the control processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the UE . Upper layer packets from the controller processor may be provided to the core network. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an ACK and or NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

The exemplary methods and apparatuses discussed infra are applicable to any of a variety of wireless device to device communications systems such as for example a wireless device to device communication system based on LTE Neighbor Awareness Networking NAN FlashLinQ WiMedia Bluetooth ZigBee or Wi Fi based on the IEEE 802.11 standard. To simplify the discussion the exemplary methods and apparatus are discussed within the context of LTE. However one of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the exemplary methods and apparatuses are applicable more generally to a variety of other wireless device to device communication systems.

In wireless device to device communications systems it is important for a device to discover other devices within the vicinity of the device. A device may broadcast a peer discovery signal which conveys an expression used to identify the device. All of the various device to device communication systems mentioned above provide mechanisms for performing peer discovery for example by advertising and monitoring expressions to and from other devices.

The various aforementioned device to device communication systems provide support for performing peer discovery with varying capabilities. That is various device to device communication systems may differ in range expression size discovery period operating band and power consumption etc. For example a typical LTE peer discovery deployment would have a relatively long range small expression size and slow discovery period e.g. tens of seconds which may not be ideal for some applications. By contrast a Bluetooth peer discovery deployment may have a shorter range larger expression size and more frequent discovery period. Bluetooth s non connectable undirected advertising events may have a minimum advertising interval of 100 ms. For WiFi NAN the discovery interval may be approximately 0.5 seconds. Because different device to device communication systems may be more appropriate under different circumstances a device may incorporate several device to device communication systems and operate the systems concurrently. As such the device would require multiple and different application programming interfaces APIs for each peer discovery service.

A need exists to present a single unified discovery API to applications on devices running multiple device to device communication systems. A single unified discovery API could provide a more flexible and dynamic high level discovery service by optionally combining one or more expressions from the various underlying device to device communication systems as they become available. For example an LTE peer discovery expression may be augmented with supplemental discovery information over WiFi medium range and or Bluetooth short range as such information became available. Applications could use the supplemental medium short range discovery information to convey more dynamic content within a high level expression. The high level expression may also be used as an embedded low rate data channel. In one example a device could transmit a string URL over the WiFi medium range channel by fragmenting the string URL and transmitting the pieces over successive discovery frames. A single unified discovery API may allow a monitoring device to build a more detailed view of an advertising device as both devices become closer in proximity to each other. Further a single unified discovery API for signaling the presence of any supplemental cross technology discovery information may be useful for helping mobile devices conserve power. For example control bits within the primary LTE peer discovery expression could be used for this purpose.

The peer discovery signal may contain supplemental information indicators indicating that the device X is transmitting a second peer discovery signal that contains a second set of information. The device X may transmit the second set of information in the second peer discovery signal with a second periodicity and a second peer discovery range. The second periodicity may be different from the first periodicity and or the second peer discovery range may be different from the first peer discovery range. The second set of information may be associated with the first set of information. For example the second set of information may provide details or additional information related to the first set of information. In one configuration the second set of information may contain a first identifier based on the first set of information. In one aspect the device X can apply a hash function on the first set of information e.g. on the primary expression to generate a hash value which serves as the first identifier. The hash function may vary over time e.g. every discovery period . For example in addition to transmitting the first set of information the device X may also transmit a second set of information over a WLAN such as WiFi NAN in the second peer discovery signal to provide a restaurant menu. The restaurant menu provided in the second set of information may be associated with the restaurant identified in the first set of information based on a first identifier. In this example the WLAN may have a shorter peer discovery range and a greater periodicity than the WWAN.

The peer discovery signal may contain supplemental information indicators indicating that the device X is transmitting a third peer discovery signal that contains a third set of information. The device X may transmit the third set of information with a third periodicity and a third peer discovery range different from the first periodicity and first peer discovery range and or the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range. The third set of information may be associated with the first or second set of information. For example the third set of information may provide details or additional information related to the first or second set of information. In one configuration the third set of information contains a second identifier based on the first or second set of information. In one aspect the device X may apply a hash function on the first or second set of information to generate the second identifier. For example the device X may transmit a third set of information over a PAN such as Bluetooth to provide restaurant coupons. In this example the restaurant coupons may be associated with the restaurant identified in the first set of information based on a second identifier. In this example the PAN may have a shorter peer discovery range and a greater periodicity than both the WWAN and the WLAN.

On the UE a user application may request the UE to monitor for one or more peer discovery signals. When the UE comes within range of a first peer discovery signal with a first periodicity and a first peer discovery range the UE may receive a first set of information. The first set of information in the peer discovery signals may contain a primary expression from the device X . The peer discovery signals from device X may also contain one or more supplemental information indicators that indicate supplemental information is available on other peer discovery networks. If supplemental information is available depending on the user preferences selected on the UE the UE may begin monitoring the other peer discovery networks for supplemental information. For example a user application may request that the UE monitor for peer discovery signals from a restaurant. The device X may be transmitting peer discovery signals and from within the restaurant. The UE may receive a first set of information in peer discovery signals over a WWAN such as LTE advertising that the restaurant is nearby. Upon receiving the first set of information and determining that the first set of information matches the application s request the UE may send an expression match indication to the application on the UE that made the request. Further upon receiving the first set of information from the restaurant the UE may learn based on the supplemental information indicators in the first set of information that supplemental information is available on a second peer discovery signal and or a third peer discovery signal . Depending on the user preferences selected on the UE the UE may begin monitoring the other peer discovery signals for supplemental information.

The UE may move to a different location indicated by the UE . The new location of the UE may be in closer proximity to the device X . At the new location the UE is within range of both the first peer discovery signal and the second peer discovery signal . If the UE is monitoring for the second peer discovery signal the UE may receive a second set of information in the second peer discovery signal . The second peer discovery signal may have a second periodicity and a second peer discovery range different from the first periodicity of the first peer discovery signal and or the first peer discovery range of the first peer discovery signal .

Upon receiving the second set of information the UE may determine whether the second set of information is associated with the first set of information. In one configuration the second set of information may include a first identifier that associates the second set of information with the first set of information. The UE may apply a hash function to the first set of information to generate a hash value. The hash function may vary over time e.g. every discovery period . The UE may compare the hash value to the first identifier. If the hash value and the first identifier are the same then the second set of information is associated with the first set of information. For example as the UE moves closer to the restaurant e.g. arrives in the parking lot the UE may be listening over a WLAN such as WiFi NAN for peer discovery signals . The UE may see for example a WiFi NAN cluster on channel and start listening during the WiFi NAN discovery window. The UE may receive a WiFi NAN discovery frame containing data and a first identifier that associates the WiFi NAN discovery frame with the first set of information. The UE may apply a hash function to the first set of information to generate a hash value and compare the hash value to the first identifier. If the hash value matches the first identifier then the UE will determine that the WiFi NAN discovery frame is associated with the first set of information. The API may issue to the application an expression match update indication which may contain a length payload bytes and peer discovery range identifier. The API may remove the first identifier and deliver the data to the application. The application may then examine and store the data. If the data is a fragment the data is stored until all of the data has been received. The UE may receive a second WiFi NAN discovery frame associated with the first set of information. The second WiFi NAN discovery frame has the same first identifier but different payload data. The application may examine the data and determine that the second WiFi NAN discovery frame is the remainder of the data. At this point the application may display and or transmit the data. For example the application may display a restaurant menu once all of the data for the restaurant menu has been received.

The UE may move to yet another location indicated by the UE . The new location of the UE may be in closer proximity to the device X . At the new location the UE is within range of the first second and third peer discovery signals and respectively. If the UE is monitoring for the third peer discovery signal the UE may receive a third set of information in the third peer discovery signal . The third peer discovery signal may have a third periodicity and a third peer discovery range different from the first periodicity and first peer discovery range of the first peer discovery signal and or the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range of the second peer discovery signal .

Upon receiving the third set of information the UE may determine whether the third set of information is associated with either the first and or second set of information. In one configuration the third set of information may include a second identifier that associates the third set of information with the first and or second set of information. The UE may apply a hash function to the first or second set of information to generate a hash value. The UE may compare the hash value to the second identifier. If the hash value and the second identifier are the same then the third set of information is associated with the first and or second set of information. For example as the UE moves into the restaurant the UE may be listening over a PAN such as Bluetooth for peer discovery signals . The UE for example may receive a Bluetooth protocol data unit PDU containing the second identifier that associates the third set of information with the first set of information. For example if the third set of information is a coupon code the UE may apply a hash function on the restaurant data from the first set of information to generate a hash value and compare that hash value to the second identifier. Alternatively the UE may apply a hash function on the restaurant menu information from the second set of information to generate a hash value and compare that hash value to the second identifier. If either of those comparisons indicates that the second identifier matches the generated hash value the UE determines that the coupon is associated with the restaurant or the restaurant menu. Upon such a determination the API may issue another expression match update indication to the application. The application may then examine the data and display the coupon code to the user.

At step the apparatus may generate a first identifier based on the first set of information. The first identifier may be generated from the primary expression of the first set of information. The apparatus may apply a hash function on the first set of information to generate a hash value. The hash function may also vary over time e.g. every discovery period . The generated hash value could serve as the first identifier.

At step the apparatus may transmit a second set of information in a second peer discovery signal with a second periodicity and second peer discovery range. The second periodicity may be different from the first periodicity and or the second peer discovery range may be different from the first peer discovery range. For example the second periodicity may be greater than the first periodicity and the second peer discovery range may be less than the first peer discovery range. The second set of information may be transmitted with the first identifier such that the UE may associate the second set of information with the first set of information. For example the apparatus may transmit a second set of information over a WLAN containing information on a menu associated with the restaurant.

At step the apparatus may generate a second identifier based on the first or second set of information. The apparatus may apply a hash function on the first or second set of information to generate a hash value. The hash function may vary over time e.g. every discovery period . The generated hash value could serve as the second identifier.

Finally at step the apparatus may transmit to the UE a third set of information in a third peer discovery signal with a third periodicity and peer discovery range. The third periodicity and third peer discovery range may be different from the first periodicity and first peer discovery range and or the second periodicity and second peer discovery range. For example the third periodicity may be greater than the first and or second periodicity and the third peer discovery range may be less than the first and or second peer discovery range. The third set of information may be transmitted with the second identifier such that the UE may associate the third set of information with the first or second set of information. For example the apparatus may transmit a third set of information over a PAN such as a coupon for a food item associated with the restaurant or restaurant menu.

At step the UE may receive from the base station a second set of information in a second peer discovery signal with a second periodicity and second peer discovery range. The second periodicity and second peer discovery range may be different from the first periodicity and first peer discovery range. For example the second periodicity may be greater than the first periodicity and the second peer discovery range may be less than the first peer discovery range. The UE may receive the second set of information with a first identifier such that the UE may associate the second set of information with the first set of information.

At step the UE may determine whether the second set of information is associated with the first set of information based on the received first identifier. For example the UE may apply a hash function which may be time variable to the received first set of information and compare the hash value to the first identifier. If the hash value matches the first identifier then the UE may determine that the second set of information is associated with the first set of information and store the second set of information. However if the hash value does not match the first identifier the UE may determine that the first and second sets of information are not associated with each other and discard the second set of information. For example the UE may receive a second set of information over a WLAN and determine that the second set of information contains data for a restaurant menu associated with the restaurant discovered from the first set of information.

At step the UE may receive from the base station a third set of information in a third peer discovery signal with a third periodicity and third peer discovery range. The third periodicity and third peer discovery range may be different from the first periodicity and first peer discovery range and or the second periodicity and second peer discovery range. For example the third periodicity may be greater than the first and or second periodicity and the third peer discovery range may be less than the first and or second peer discovery range. The third set of information may be transmitted with the second identifier such that the UE may associate the third set of information with the first or second set of information.

Finally at step the UE may determine whether the third set of information is associated with the first or second set of information based on the received second identifier. For example the UE may apply a hash function which may be time variable to the received first or second set of information and compare the hash value to the second identifier. If the hash value matches the second identifier then the UE may determine that the third set of information is associated with the first or second set of information and store the third set of information. However if the hash value does not match the second identifier the UE may determine that the third set of information is not associated with the first or second set of information and discard the third set of information. For example the UE may receive a third set of information over a PAN and determine that the third set of information contains data for a coupon for a menu item associated with the restaurant discovered from the first set of information.

The apparatus may include additional modules that perform each of the steps of the algorithm in the aforementioned flow charts of . As such each step in the aforementioned flow charts of may be performed by a module and the apparatus may include one or more of those modules. The modules may be one or more hardware components specifically configured to carry out the stated processes algorithm implemented by a processor configured to perform the stated processes algorithm stored within a computer readable medium for implementation by a processor or some combination thereof.

The processing system may be coupled to a transceiver . The transceiver is coupled to one or more antennas . The transceiver provides a means for communicating with various other apparatus over a transmission medium. The transceiver receives a signal from the one or more antennas extracts information from the received signal and provides the extracted information to the processing system . In addition the transceiver receives information from the processing system specifically the transmission module and based on the received information generates a signal to be applied to the one or more antennas . The processing system includes a processor coupled to a computer readable medium memory . The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium memory . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing system to perform the various functions described supra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable medium memory may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software. The processing system further includes at least one of the modules and . The modules may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable medium memory one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof. The processing system may be a component of the eNB and may include the memory and or at least one of the TX processor the RX processor and the controller processor .

In one configuration the apparatus for wireless communication includes means for generating peer discovery expressions for transmission over various peer discovery signals. The apparatus may include means for transmitting a first set of information e.g. peer discovery expressions in a first peer discovery signal with a first periodicity and a first peer discovery range. The apparatus may further include a means for transmitting a second set of information in a second peer discovery signal with a second periodicity and a second peer discovery range. The second periodicity may be different from the first periodicity the second peer discovery range may be less than the first peer discovery range and the second set of information may be associated with the first set of information. In one configuration the first set of information may include information indicating that the second set of information will be transmitted with the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range. The apparatus may include means for generating an identifier based on the first set of information in which the identifier is transmitted with the second set of information. In one configuration the means for generating an identifier may be configured to apply a hash function to the first set of information to generate a hash value. In such a configuration the hash function may vary over time. In one configuration the means for transmitting may be configured to transmit the first set of information through a WWAN and the second set of information through one of a WLAN or PAN. The apparatus may further include a means for transmitting a third set of information in a third peer discovery signal with a third periodicity and a third peer discovery range. The third periodicity may be different from the second periodicity the third peer discovery range may be less than the second peer discovery range and the third set of information may be associated with the first set of information. In one configuration the first set of information may include information indicating that the second set of information will be transmitted with the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range and the third set of information will be transmitted with the third periodicity and the third peer discovery range. The apparatus may include a means for generating a first identifier based on the first set of information and a means for generating a second identifier based on one of the first set of information or the second set of information the second identifier being transmitted with the third set of information. In one configuration the first identifier may be a hash value generated based on a first hash function applied to the first set of information and the second identifier may be a hash value generated based on a second hash function applied to said one of the first set of information or the second set of information. In one configuration the first set of information may be transmitted through a WWAN the second set of information may be transmitted through a WLAN and the third set of information may be transmitted through a PAN. The aforementioned means may be one or more of the aforementioned modules of the apparatus and or the processing system of the apparatus configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means. As described supra the processing system may include the TX Processor the RX Processor and the controller processor . As such in one configuration the aforementioned means may be the TX Processor the RX Processor and the controller processor configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means.

The apparatus may include additional modules that perform each of the steps of the algorithm in the aforementioned flow charts of . As such each step in the aforementioned flow charts of may be performed by a module and the apparatus may include one or more of those modules. The modules may be one or more hardware components specifically configured to carry out the stated processes algorithm implemented by a processor configured to perform the stated processes algorithm stored within a computer readable medium for implementation by a processor or some combination thereof.

The processing system may be coupled to a transceiver . The transceiver is coupled to one or more antennas . The transceiver provides a means for communicating with various other apparatus over a transmission medium. The transceiver receives a signal from the one or more antennas extracts information from the received signal and provides the extracted information to the processing system specifically the receiving module . In addition the transceiver receives information from the processing system and based on the received information generates a signal to be applied to the one or more antennas . The processing system includes a processor coupled to a computer readable medium memory . The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium memory . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing system to perform the various functions described supra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable medium memory may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software. The processing system further includes at least one of the modules and . The modules may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable medium memory one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof. The processing system may be a component of the UE and may include the memory and or at least one of the TX processor the RX processor and the controller processor .

In one configuration the apparatus for wireless communication includes means for receiving a first set of information in a first peer discovery signal with a first periodicity and a first peer discovery range. The apparatus may further include means for receiving a second set of information in a second peer discovery signal with a second periodicity and a second peer discovery range. The second periodicity may be different from the first periodicity and the second peer discovery range may be less than the first peer discovery range. The apparatus may include means for determining that the second set of information is associated with the first set of information. The first set of information may include information indicating that the second set of information will be transmitted with the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range and the second set of information may be received based on the information indicating that the second set of information will be transmitted with the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range. The apparatus may include means for receiving an identifier with the second set of information. The apparatus may include means for determining that the second set of information is associated with the first set of information based on the received identifier. The apparatus may include means for applying a hash function to the first set of information to generate a hash value means for comparing the hash value to the identifier and means for determining configured to determine that the second set of information is associated with the first set of information when the hash value and the identifier are the same. The hash function may vary over time. The first set of information may be received through a wireless WWAN and the second set of information may be received through one of a WLAN or a PAN. The apparatus may further include means for receiving a third set of information in a third peer discovery signal with a third periodicity and a third peer discovery range. The third periodicity may be different from the second periodicity and the third peer discovery range may be less than the second peer discovery range. The apparatus may include a means for determining that the third set of information is associated with at least one of the first set of information or the second set of information. The first set of information may include information indicating that the second set of information will be transmitted with the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range and the third set of information will be transmitted with the third periodicity and the third peer discovery range. The second set of information may be received based on the information indicating that the second set of information will be transmitted with the second periodicity and the second peer discovery range. The third set of information may be received based on the information indicating that the third set of information will be transmitted with the third periodicity and the third peer discovery range. The apparatus may include means for receiving a first identifier with the second set of information. In this configuration the apparatus may include a means for determining that the second set of information is associated with the first set of information based on the received first identifier. The apparatus may include means for receiving a second identifier with the third set of information. In this configuration the apparatus may include means for determining that the third set of information is associated with at least one of the first set of information or the second set of information based on the received second identifier. The apparatus may include means for applying a first hash function to the first set of information to generate a first hash value means for comparing the first hash value to the first identifier and means for determining configured to determine that the second set of information is associated with the first set of information when the first hash value and the first identifier are the same. The apparatus may further include means for applying a second hash function to said at least one of the first set of information or the second set of information to generate a second hash value means for comparing the second hash value to the second identifier and means for determining configured to determine that the third set of information is associated with said at least one of the first set of information or the second set of information when the second hash value and the second identifier are the same. The first set of information may be received through a WWAN the second set of information may be received through a WLAN and the third set of information may be received through a PAN. The aforementioned means may be one or more of the aforementioned modules of the apparatus and or the processing system of the apparatus configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means. As described supra the processing system may include the TX Processor the RX Processor and the controller processor . As such in one configuration the aforementioned means may be the TX Processor the RX Processor and the controller processor configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Combinations such as at least one of A B or C at least one of A B and C and A B C or any combination thereof include any combination of A B and or C and may include multiples of A multiples of B or multiples of C. Specifically combinations such as at least one of A B or C at least one of A B and C and A B C or any combination thereof may be A only B only C only A and B A and C B and C or A and B and C where any such combinations may contain one or more member or members of A B or C. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed as a means plus function unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. 

