---

title: Mapping electronic devices within an area
abstract: A computing device is used to acquire data and information regarding various electronic devices within a home, commercial space, or another area of interest. Locations for the electronic devices may also be determined by way of a location resource of the computing device, by user input, or through another suitable technique. Various maps may be generated that include graphical representations of the electronic devices, as well as walls, doorways, furniture, or other features within the area or space of interest. A user may amend or add various details within such a map by way of respective user interfaces presented by the computing device. The respective functions and cooperative operations of the electronic devices may be visualized and improved through such mapping.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398413&OS=09398413&RS=09398413
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09398413
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140318
---
Electronic devices are used to perform various respective and cooperative functions. Enhancement of these cooperative operations and expanded device usage opportunities are sought after.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Many different types of electronic devices may be distributed about the inside of a home office area or other area or space of interest. Examples of such devices include but are not limited to computers security or fire protection alarms home or building automation systems audio video or other entertainment electronics video gaming platforms smart exercise equipment smart home appliances and so forth. Often two or more respective devices cooperate with one another so as to perform a range of functions or services.

For instance a television TV computer monitor or other display device may be coupled to a set top box by way of a high definition multimedia interface HDMI cable. The set top box may in turn be connected to a receiver or other device such that audio and video programming may be received by way of satellite based wireless signaling and presented on the TV. An audio amplifier or sound system may also be connected to the set top box by way of HDMI cabling or another wiring protocol such that enhanced audio presentation is made through multiple speakers arranged relative to the W.

In another example a home security system may include a control center or keypad located near a main door such that a security alarm function may be conveniently activated or inactivated through password entry or other action when persons exit or enter the home. Such a home security system may include motion detectors window glass breakage sensors smoke or toxic gas detectors or other instruments distributed about the home and in communication with the control center or each other by way of wireless signaling. In another instance such instruments and the control center communicate with each other by way of wired connections in the interest of tamper resistant security. The wired connections may include electrical conductors optical waveguides radio frequency waveguides and so forth.

Often a homeowner or other user makes use of various functions that are performed by the respective electronic devices within their home. Additionally such a user may be aware of or has established some number of cooperative operations that are performable between two or more of the electronic devices such as audio video signal sharing between the set top box and their sound system verifying that the security control center is in communication with all of the smoke detectors or intrusion sensors and so forth. Thus the user is aware of numerous respective operations and cooperative operations that their electronic devices may perform.

However many such users are often unaware of certain capabilities or functions that may be performed by a particular electronic device as it was originally designed. For instance a user may not be aware that their TV has an automatic timer that will turn the TV off on a time of day or period of use basis. Such a TV may be programmed to turn itself off for example at 1 00 AM thus saving energy in the event that a user has fallen asleep while watching a program late at night.

A user may also be unaware of various cooperative operations or functions that two or more of the electronic devices are intended to offer or perform. For instance the user may have their home automation system configured to adjust the temperature set point of their heating system based on time of day un occupancy due to a family vacation or in accordance with other criteria. However the user may not know that their home automation system is also configured by original design to turn a television or sound system on and off in the interest of presenting an occupied appearance to would be burglars. Such control actions may be affected by way of wireless signaling capabilities or protocols that the home automation controller the TV and the sound system share in common.

Additionally there may be a range of functions or cooperative operations that respective electronic devices can perform not as a part of their original designs but by virtue of signaling upgrades to computer program code or other resources. For example various instruments within a home security system may communicate with each other by way of encrypted data packets communicated by way of wireless signals. Such wireless signals may include those in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard 802.11 Wi Fi or other protocols such as such as Bluetooth or Zigbee . A laptop computer having wireless capabilities in accordance with the same protocol as the home security system may also be present in the home.

Accordingly a processor executable program code or software upgrade may be installed in the laptop computer such that communication with the home security system is enabled. For instance the laptop computer may be provided with one or more encryption schemes or keys signal or packet processing methodologies a user interface or other resources such that the laptop computer can present security system status information to a user. Alarm system testing wireless signal strength measurements changing or managing user passwords viewing access or egress time logs or other operations may be performed using conveniences made possible on the laptop computer which may not be provided by the keypad of the home security system.

In one illustrative operation a user may use a suitable computing device such as a tablet computer or other portable apparatus to survey the various electronic devices within their home office or other space. Such a survey may include determining relative or geographical locations for each of the devices acquiring identifying or functionality information from each device determining various wired or wireless signal capabilities for the respective devices and so on. Once devices have been identified and located a data structure may be populated with the corresponding information. Additional information may also be obtained for respective ones of the devices by way of Internet based resources servers or other network based entities. Benchmark locations or other information corresponding to a perimeter shape wall or doorway locations or other characteristics of the relevant space may also be acquired.

Data regarding the electronic devices their respective or relative locations and objects or characteristics within the area of interest may be used to generate a corresponding map. The map which is a dataset regarding an area or space may include or plot default icons representing the electronic devices which may thereafter be replaced with user selected icons from a database. Alternatively particular icons may be obtained from various Internet and network based resources or obtained by communication with respective devices without user intervention thus in a substantially automatic manner and used within the map.

Continuing the illustration the map may visibly represent the area of interest the various devices features such as walls doorways stairs or other objects or characteristics as a plan view an isometric or perspective view or as other two or three dimensional representations. Other data or information may also be included in or presented by such a map or maps. One or more user interfaces may include a listing of the electronic devices provide tools for a user to add or amend information regarding the respective electronic devices and so on. Such a user interface may also provide user assistance or guidance toward the addition of electronic devices to the listing which were not found during a previous discovery operation.

The resulting visible representations of the map or maps may be used to identify other electronic device placement opportunities expose new cooperative uses or operations between respective devices and so forth. For instance a user may have desktop computer within a home office located on the second floor of their home. The user may also note through observation of the map that an intrusion detector of the home security system senses an open or closed condition of the front door which is located on the first floor. The user further observes that both the home security system and the desktop computer have Wi Fi signaling capability such that it may be possible to provide a visible or audible indication at the computer when someone opens the front door.

Such an annunciator type application may be useful so as to alert the user to family members entering or leaving the home warn the user of a possible intrusion and so forth without having to arm the security system or trigger unwanted alarms. In such a case the user may then access a website of the vendor or manufacturer of the home security system perform a general Internet search or take other action toward finding and installing such an annunciator application. Other new uses for or cooperative operations between the respective electronic devices in a home commercial space or other area may also be implemented by way of such device discovery and mapping. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

A computing device is depicted as a tablet computer. Numerous other types of computing devices such as wearable computers smart phones laptop computers e book readers media devices and so on may also be used. The computing device is associated with and operable by a user .

The computing devices may include a mapping module . The mapping module may be configured to perform numerous different operations or functions toward discovering locating or mapping electronic devices or respective combinations of these or other functions. The mapping module may include electronic circuitry one or more hardware processors one or more data structures or program code stored on non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM or other resources or constituency.

The mapping module or other aspects of the computing device may be configured to communicate with a server by way of one or more networks . The network or networks may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or connection thereto and so forth. Other networks may also be used. In turn the computing device may be respectively connected to the network s by way of wired wireless optical or other signaling types or protocols or by a combination of two or more of these techniques.

The server may include various resources such as an assistance module . The assistance module may include electronic circuitry one or more hardware processors one or more data structures or program code stored on non transitory CRSM and so forth. The assistance module may include other respective resources elements or constituency as well. The assistance module may be configured to perform one or more functions related to discovery locating or mapping analogous to those of the mapping module as well as other operations or functions.

Also depicted is a living room . The living room is an area of interest within a home apartment or other domestic dwelling having respective devices located therein. A television a set top box and a sound system perform respective functions and are coupled to each other by way of HDMI or other wired connections. The wired connections may couplings made using electrical conductors optical waveguides radio frequency waveguides and so forth. For example the wired connection may include a fiber optic cable copper wiring and so forth.

Various operations may therefore be performed by way of the television the set top box and the sound system in accordance with this cooperative operation. A cooperative operation may be performed when a plurality of devices may at least partially interoperate with one another to perform a function or accomplish a goal. For instance digital audio signaling may be received from a remote source by the set top box and communicated to the sound system for conversion to analog format power amplification and distribution to respective speakers. In another instance the television may receive a channel change command from a remote control device and communicate a corresponding command to the set top box . The set top box responds by switching a digital video signal feed to the television in accordance with the desired channel.

The living room also includes a computer a security sensor and an automation controller which provide respective functions and capabilities. For instance the computer may perform various operations by way of respective applications or program codes communicate with other devices by wired or wireless signaling and so forth. In turn the security sensor is configured to detect motion of people within the living room and provide a corresponding signal to the automation controller which may respond by turning room lighting on or off or adjusting a temperature set point for heating or cooling or perform other operations. Other respective functions may also be performed or other cooperative operations may be established and used.

Also depicted is a kids room which is also an area of interest within the home. The kids room includes a gaming platform and a display as respective entities located therein. The gaming platform is coupled to the display so as to communicate digital video and audio signaling thereto for presentation during playing of a video game. The gaming platform and the display may perform other respective functions as well.

Further depicted is a kitchen also an area of interest within the home. The kitchen includes a smart appliance such as a range oven combination and a smart appliance such as a refrigerator having an electronic display supported on a door. The kitchen further includes a security sensor which is configured to detect motion of people within the kitchen and provide a corresponding signal to the automation controller by way of a wired coupling . The eleven entities and collectively define electronic devices .

Each of the electronic devices may be defined by respective device data . The device data may include makes and model numbers serial numbers or other identifiers functions or cooperative operations wired or wireless signaling protocols or other information respective to each of the electronic devices . In one instance the device data or elements thereof for a particular electronic device may be acquired by way of deliberate wired or wireless communication with the computing device .

In another instance the computing device may use a wireless resource to monitor for beacon signals or other wireless transmissions over a period of time and identify particular electronic devices by analysis of these signals. Direct communication may be performed or attempted thereafter in regard to electronic devices that are identified or discovered in this way. In still another instance device data or elements thereof for a particular electronic device may be input to a user interface. In yet another instance device data or elements thereof may be acquired from the server or another resource connected to the network s based on a serial number make and model or other identifying information. The device data may then be stored within non transitory CRSM of the computing device as device data .

As depicted the device data may include absolute locations locations relative to other electronic devices identities functions measured wireless signal strengths interconnections such as cabling formats or other information with respect to each of the electronic devices . The respective elements of the device data may be acquired by the respective techniques described above or in other suitable ways.

The mapping module may access the device data and generate one or more maps . For example the maps may comprise data representing the living room the kids room or the kitchen or a graphical representation including some or all of these. The mapping module may include in the maps respective icons representing the electronic devices and visible objects representing other features in the area or volume being mapped. The visible objects are graphical elements representing features such as furniture architectural elements such as walls doorways windows stairways light fixtures and so forth. The visible objects may be automatically determined or may be selected in accordance with user input. The mapping module may store the one or more maps within non transitory CRSM of the computing device . Additionally the mapping module may be configured to generate visual representations of the maps . For example these visual representations may include plan views isometric or perspective views two or three dimensional representations of a room or area two or three dimensional representations of respective electronic devices and so forth. Respective maps may include textual content graphical elements or objects symbolic representations and so forth. Other suitable data graphical elements or other content may also be included. A two dimensional representation may include graphical objects having a flat appearance such as electronic devices furniture structural elements such as stairways or doorways or other things located within an area. Plan views or elevations are examples of two dimensional representations. In turn a three dimensional representation includes graphical objects or features having the appearance of depth or thickness by virtue of rendered images. Isometric views are suggestive of three dimensions while perspective views use vanishing points or other techniques to suggest depth or thickness of the objects portrayed therein.

Display devices having three dimensional capability may be used to present various three dimensional maps or two dimensional views of the three dimensional maps . For instance a user may tour or move through such a three dimensional map as a walk through or similar presentation including different levels or floors resulting in a more meaningful or insightful impression of the size or orientation of electronic devices objects and architectural features within the depicted space. Two dimensional maps may be presented using conventional computer monitors and give a user a bird s eye or overhead perspective of the relative locations and sizes of objects and features depicted within an area.

The server may include the device data or portions thereof or one or more of the maps stored within non transitory CRSM. The device data may be communicated from the computing device to the server or vice versa. In turn the maps may be communicated from the computing device to the server or vice versa. Additionally one or more of the maps may be generated by the assistance module by way of accessing device data stored within the server . Other operations may also be performed.

As depicted the mapping module of the computing device may present user instructions to guide the user during the discovery or surveying of respective electronic devices within the living room . The user instructions may provide information regarding various steps or techniques hints on how to find or understand device data provided by a boiler plate on an electronic device instructions regarding one or more tools or user interfaces presented with the user instructions and so forth.

Such discovery or survey operations may include determining locations of the electronic devices as well. For instance the user may place the computing device proximate to the security sensor and actuate a locate button or soft switch presented as part of the user instructions . The computing device responds to this actuation by determining a location of the computing device at about the time of the actuation. The computing device may determine its location by way of inertial navigation referenced to a known base point radio signals image data acquired from a camera or in accordance with another suitable technique. For example the computing device may include a global positioning system GPS receiver or other radio navigation device. Given the proximity of the computing device to the security sensor or other object to be placed on the map the location of the computing device at the time of actuation may be assigned to a device location associated with the security sensor . Locations corresponding to features such as furniture walls stairways other architectural elements and so on within an area or space of interest may also be determined using the computing device in this fashion.

The device location may then be stored in CRSM of the computing device along with identifying information or other device data corresponding to the security sensor . Once the device location has been determined the user may walk through the living room using the computing device to determine device locations and for the sound system the television and the set top box respectively. These respective device locations may also be stored along with corresponding device data within non transitory CRSM of the computing device .

The mapping module may also acquire device data for respective electronic devices by way of wired or wireless communication. As depicted the mapping module may establish communication with the automation controller by way of wireless signals such as in accordance with Bluetooth signaling protocol. The mapping module may then interrogate the automation controller so as to determine a make or model number a serial number or other identifier respective functions or cooperative operations that the automation controller may perform and so on. In one instance a particular electronic device may have resources configured to determine the location of the particular electronic device . For example the automation controller may determine its own location by way of cellular signal triangulation and communicate corresponding information to the computing device by way of wireless signals . Other locating techniques may also be used.

Device data regarding the automation controller may be stored within the computing device may be communicated to the server or used for other purposes. The mapping module further operates to determine a device location for the automation controller which is stored as part of the device data within the computing device or the server or both. Other kinds of information may also be acquired by wireless signals communication between the computing device and the automation controller .

In another instance a scanning apparatus may scan the living room by way of a scanning beam . The scanning beam may be a laser beam or other light that is swept about in two axes so as to illuminate the interior of the living room . For example an infrared laser may be configured to scan and illuminate the area in a predetermined pattern. A detector of the scanning apparatus receives reflected light or fluoresced light from physical objects within the living room such as electronic devices features and so on. For example an imaging array such as a complementary metal oxide semiconductor coupled to a lens system may acquire the reflected or fluoresced light. The dimensions and interior volumetric shape of the living room also be determined using information such as time of flight angular displacement and so forth. For example the scanning apparatus may generate point cloud data. Wireless signals may communicate corresponding data such as the point cloud data to the computing device where the data is analyzed such that living room dimensions feature or electronic device identities respective device locations and so forth are determined.

In one example the scanning apparatus may be configured to identify one or more of the electronic devices within the living room and communicate such information by way of the wireless signals . Distances to or between respective objects or features or their respective orientations may be determined by time of flight intensity of reflected or fluoresced light interferometry or other processes performed by the scanning apparatus . The scanning apparatus may then be moved to another room or area of interest and the scanning process repeated and so on until the entirety of a home or other space has been scanned. Other operations may also be performed. The scanning apparatus or an analogous scanning device may be rented or loaned for a temporary time from a commercial entity thus sparing a consumer user the expense of purchasing such an instrument. In yet another instance a scanning device may be used that employs sonar or acoustic energy one or more cameras sensing within the infrared visible or ultraviolet regions of the electromagnetic spectrum structured light optical or radio frequency RF transducers or other instrumentation to scan or image an interior space and the respective objects and features therein. This information may then be communicated to the computing device . In one example digital images or renderings of the contents of a room or rooms may be used in generating one or more maps which may thereafter be visibly presented to the user .

In another example digital images or photographs taken within an area of interest by an imaging device may be used to generate or augment various data within a map or maps determine spatial locations or distances between respective electronic devices or features within an area and so on. For instance an imaging device may be used to generate a plurality of digital images or frames that include or capture images of respective electronic devices furniture walls or other architectural features and so forth. The digital images may then be processed or analyzed using an object recognition resource or other capability of the mapping module so as to identify the respective electronic devices or other objects. The object recognition resource may utilize techniques such processing the digital images with genetic algorithms which have been trained to recognize objects. Other techniques such as scale invariant feature transform speeded up robust features detection geometric hashing and so forth may also be used. In some implementations a plurality of techniques may be used in conjunction with one another to perform the object recognition.

Angular separation or other techniques may be used to determine or estimate respective spatial or relative locations estimate distances to or between objects and so on. For example digital images acquired from different points in space may be combined to provide for stereovision and acquisition of depth information about placement of physical objects in the field of view of the images. Device locations the relative locations of walls or other features or other data regarding an area of interest may then be determined or derived through such analysis.

Other operations performed by way of room or area scanning digital imaging or other techniques may also be used. In another case the computing device determines identities locations or other information for respective electronic devices by way of scanning or sensing radio frequency identification RFID tags or devices borne by the electronic devices .

Once discovery locating geolocating or interrogation of the automation controller is complete the user may advance on to the computer . A corresponding device location as well as device data may be determined and acquired for the computer by operations analogous to those described immediately above. Other operations such as manual entry of device data by the user and so on may also be used. Thus device data including locations may be acquired for the respective electronic devices within the living room and stored within the computing device . The mapping module may thereafter access the stored device data so as to generate one or more maps present information to the user by way of one or more user interfaces acquire other information regarding the electronic device by way of an Internet search and so forth.

Additionally wireless signals emanating from one or more of the electronic devices may be sensed by a corresponding resource of the computing device and used to discover or determine relative locations for those electronic devices . For instance the mapping module may include electronic circuitry or other constituency configured to passively listen for such wireless signals during respective communications beaconing or other operations. Such detected wireless signals may therefore be used as part of a discovery process as well as to determine general or relative locations by way of triangulation time of flight time of arrival or other locating techniques based on wireless signaling .

Illustrative device data is depicted as a table wherein each row includes information or data corresponding to a particular electronic device . Additionally the table is defined by respective information types including device identity make model location space and signaling arranged as respective columns of the table.

For instance a row of the device data corresponds to the sound system and includes a device identity of Sound System a make model of ExampleAudio ZXY 9876 a space of Living Room and signaling types of Wi Fi Bluetooth and HDMI . The device data for the sound system also includes a location provided as a latitude of N 44.453621 degrees a longitude of W 110.899762 degrees and an elevation of 650.3 feet as respectively determined by a GPS receiver of the computing device . Other suitable location formats may also be used. Other rows of the device data include information corresponding to the television the set top box the automation controller and so forth. The depicted information types and particular elements of the device data are illustrative and non limiting and other types of data may also be included or used.

As depicted the device data may be accessed by the mapping module and used to generate a two dimensional floor plan map a three dimensional perspective map or one or more other maps The map comprises a data structure storing information indicative of locations of the electronic devices . The map may include location information about other features information or tags configured to provide particular visible representations or icons of respective electronic devices location information about features such as walls doorways windows furniture or fixtures staircases electrical outlets or interconnecting wiring access points light fixtures or other details or features of an area of interest. The location information stored in the map may be expressed in two or three dimensions.

In one instance one or more of the maps include data that correspond to a habitable dwelling space such as a house or apartment. In another instance one or more of the maps correspond to a commercial or industrial space. Other areas of interest and their respective features and electronic devices may also be mapped. In yet another instance one or more of the maps include or are augmented by data corresponding to digital images or photographs acquired by way of a scanning or imaging device. The information contained in the map may be used to generate a visual representation of the information contained therein which is visually meaningful to the user . The map may be communicated to another entity such as the server .

The interior space is characterized by respective walls and doorways . In another instance other objects or structural features may also be depicted. Also depicted are the television the set top box the computer the security sensor the gaming platform the display the smart appliances and and the security sensor . Further depicted are a smart treadmill a smart stair climber a security keypad and a security sensor which define additional electronic devices . The interior space may also have features that are controlled by way of the automation controller such as an overhead light or a porch light which are controlled by way of wired or wireless signaling . For instance the automation controller may be programmed or configured to turn the overhead light on and off according to occupancy detected by the security sensor . In another instance the automation controller may turn the porch light on and off according to a time of day schedule. Other operations may also be performed.

Further depicted are respective reference locations . Each reference location corresponds to a location point about the interior space such as a corner location defined by respective walls . Thus a general perimeter for the interior space may be defined by the reference locations in a connect the dots manner. The respective reference locations may be determined using the computing device by virtue of a locating device such as a GPS receiver an inertial navigation device or other suitable resource.

For instance the user may walk to a point of interest such as a corner defined by respective walls . The user may then use the computing device to determine a location for that point by way of GPS or another resource such that a particular reference location is determined. The coordinates or other data describing the reference location may then be stored in non transitory CRSM of the computing device . This process may then be repeated such that a plurality of reference locations is determined and the corresponding location data is stored within the computing device . As depicted for illustration a total of six reference locations are determined about the perimeter of the interior space . Other numbers of reference locations may be used in accordance with other circumstances.

The mapping module may then access the data describing the reference locations and generate a 2D floor plan map that may be rendered to include visible representations of walls defining an exterior shell of the interior space . Thus the reference locations may provide initial information toward generating a map wherein device locations and other device data and may be used to plot additional details and visible representations in the 2D floor plan map thereafter.

The user interface may include a device listing . The device listing includes identifiers or names for respective electronic devices discovered or entered thus far for which respective device data is stored within the computing device or the server . Thus the device listing provides an overview of the various electronic devices that are known to be present within a dwelling unit commercial space and so on. The user may select one of the electronic devices shown in the device listing by mouse click touch screen gesturing or other user input to the computing device .

The user interface may also include a device data edit box . The device data edit box may access data information or various details within device data corresponding to a selected electronic device . As depicted the user has selected the set top box within the device listing and corresponding details or other data are presented within the device data edit box . Such information may include a make or model number information describing its location within a particular room or area information regarding other electronic devices that the selected entity is connected to the communicational protocol used for such cooperative operations and so forth. The device data edit box may also be used to correct or amend data and information presented in regard to the selected electronic device .

For instance the user may determine that the presented model number for the set top box is in error and provide corrections thereto by way of user input. In another instance the user may couple the set top box and the computer together by way of Wi Fi wireless signals such that an application running on the computer may be used to control various aspects of the set top box schedule television programs to be recorded by the set top box or other operations. The user may then provide input describing the foregoing cooperative linkage by way of the device data edit box . Other device data corrections additions deletions or other operations may also be performed using the device data edit box and stored in non transitory CRSM.

The user interface may also include add new device tools . As depicted the add new device tools may include data input boxes for acquiring information regarding an electronic device that is not included in the device listing . The user may then provide inputs to the respective input boxes such as a Device Name a Room or Area designation a Make Model indication and so on. Other kinds of device data may also be included or input by way of add new device tools . The add new device tools may include suitable tools or devices that are defined or enabled by computer executable program code and actuated or operable by way of mouse manipulations touch screen gesturing keyboard entry or other suitable user input.

For example the user may manually input information regarding the security keypad including a name or identifier an indication of the room or area where the security keypad is located and make model information. Once the user is satisfied with the initial identification of the security keypad an add device control may be clicked or actuated such that the new information is added to the device data . In turn an indication of the security keypad may be added to the device listing and the user may thereafter edit change or add information corresponding thereto by way of the device data edit box . Other operations may also be performed.

The user interface may further include other links . For instance a link may present user guidance information regarding electronic discovery or geolocating of a new electronic device . Another link may initiate an Internet search for information regarding a new or selected electronic device . Actuating one of the links may redirect the user to another user interface a website or another resource hosted by the server or accessible by way of the one or more networks . Other operations may also be performed or initiated by way of respective links or similar devices. The user interface may also include a done control that closes the user interface and redirects the user to another user interface triggers another application on the computing device and so forth.

The user interface is illustrative of any suitable number of user interfaces that may be used for the acquisition or amendment of device data assisting a user in the determining of respective device locations and so on. Various other resources or techniques may also be used toward the discovery of electronic devices within an area of interest locating such electronic devices in an absolute or relative frame of reference and so forth.

The user interface includes or presents a portion of the 2D floor plan map which may be shifted or panned by way of one or more scroll controls for viewing or other operations. The presentation of the 2D floor plan map also includes visible representations of walls such that rooms or other characteristics of an area of interest are defined.

The 2D floor plan map also includes a sound system icon and a computer icon that visibly represent the sound system and the computer respectively. The sound system icon and the computer icon have been placed within the presentation of the 2D floor plan map in accordance with the device locations for those respective electronic devices . The 2D floor plan map also includes default icons that visibly represent other electronic devices whose respective locations are known. For instance the default icon corresponds to the security sensor .

The user interface also includes an icons window that includes different particular icons that may be selected for replacing default icons within the 2D floor plan map . For instance the sound system icon and the computer icon are among those icons presented within the icons window . Other icons may also be presented for selection and use within the icons window . The icons window may include a scroll control or other user interface element such that numerous different icons may be browsed.

The icons window may be populated in whole or in part using digital photographs or rendered images obtained from the server the Internet or another resource coupled to the network s . In another case one or more of the respective icons may be acquired directly from a corresponding electronic device during discovery. In yet another instance digital photographs of respective electronic devices may be taken using the computing device or another imaging device and imported scaled or otherwise processed for inclusion as icons within the icons window . Other suitable operations may also be performed.

A television icon is also depicted in the process of being placed within the presentation of the 2D floor plan map . For instance the user may provide input or gesturing such that a pointer is controllably moved about within the user interface . The user may position the pointer over the television icon within the icons window and then provide input or gesturing so as to select the television icon for placement. The user may then move the pointer so as to locate the television icon by way of drag and drop operation. Similar operations may also be performed for selection and placement of other icons.

In another instance the user may manipulate the pointer so as to dwell or hover over a particular default icon causing the user interface to present data regarding the corresponding electronic device . For example the pointer may be brought to hover over the default icon such that an identifier for the corresponding security sensor is presented. The user may then click on the default icon indicating selection thereof and then move the pointer so as to hover over a particular icon within the icons window . Clicking on the particular icon may then cause the default icon to be replaced with the selected icon without performing a drag and drop operation. Other icon selection or placement operations may also be performed.

The user interface may also include various tools or soft switches used during generation or amending of the 2D floor plan map . As depicted a tools control may be configured to cause various drawing tools erasing or amending tools or other elements of a user interface to be presented such that the user may change or enhance the visible presentation of the 2D floor plan map or characteristics thereof. For instance features such as walls furniture light fixtures doorways or other architectural features or other visible objects may be added to the 2D floor plan map accordingly. Thus the map may be changed in accordance with numerous tools or techniques and the resulting changed map may be stored in non transitory CRSM thereafter. The user interface may also include a done control that closes the user interface and redirects the user to another user interface triggers another application on the computing device and so forth.

Non limiting examples of such tools may include line or shape drawing tools a color selection grid an object sizing tool an object deleting tool a text generation or editing tool and so forth. Other suitable tools as defined or enabled by computer executable program code may also be used. Such tools may be actuated or operated by way of computer mouse manipulations touch screen gesturing or other use of a user interface element.

The user interface is illustrative of any suitable number of user interfaces that may be used toward the generation or amendment of various maps and so on. Various user interface elements or techniques may also be used toward the visible representation of electronic devices within an area of interest in a graphic and intuitive manner. Other information regarding the electronic devices may also be included or visibly depicted.

For instance a relationship link may be presented between the sound system icon and the default icon corresponding to the set top box in accordance with one or more cooperative operations that are performable between these respective entities. The presented relationship link provides a graphical indication of the cooperative operation. In another instance the user may position the pointer over a particular icon such as the sound system icon or the television icon and click on that icon resulting in a presentation of the corresponding device data within a dialog box or other device. In yet another instance the user may click on a particular icon and thereafter input a name such as Tommy s Computer or other information for the corresponding electronic device . Other operations by way of the user interface or another analogous user interface may also be performed.

The computing device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the computing device to communicate with various other computing devices other devices the server web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a touch sensor a mouse a microphone a digital camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include one or more locating devices such as a GPS receiver or another satellite based positioning device an inertial locating device a cellular signal locating or geolocating system optical positioning system acoustic positioning system or another suitable device or apparatus. One or more of the locating devices may operate to determine a location of the computing device using a plurality of radio signals transmitted from respective remote entities such as satellites cellular towers radio navigation beacons or other suitable sources.

The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more display devices audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. For example the display devices may include liquid crystal displays electrophoretic displays interferometric displays and so forth which are configured to present an image to the user . In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the computing device or they may be externally placed. The I O devices may include various other devices as well.

The computing device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other computing devices web based resources servers routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including personal area networks PANs local area networks LANs Wireless LANs WLANs wide area networks WANs and so forth. The computing device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the computing device .

The computing device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data used during the operation of the computing device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces or and may also provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more of the application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a photo editing application a web browsing application a portable document viewing application and so on. The memory may also include the mapping module as described elsewhere herein.

The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications resources a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet transceiver resources for satellite communications or navigation and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code one or more data tables or another data structure or structures to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other computing devices or computing apparatus including servers network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store device data corresponding to one or more electronic devices as respectively described elsewhere herein. The datastore may also store one or more maps . The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth. The other data may also include encryption keys or codes used to access a server or servers or when communicating with network based resources and so forth. Accordingly respective computing devices may be resourced and configured to perform numerous functions as well as to cooperate with one or more other systems or apparatus.

The server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the server to communicate with various computing devices other servers computing apparatus or systems web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the server or they may be externally placed.

The server may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other servers various computing devices web based resources routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs Wireless LANs WANs and so forth. The server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the server .

The server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more non transitory CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces or . The user interface module may also provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a data encrypting or decrypting application a data structure generation or management application a web browsing application a portable document generating or viewing application and so on.

The memory may further store a communications module such that device data respective maps or other data may be communicated to and from respective computing devices . In one example the communications module includes executable program code electronic circuitry or other resources used to transmit and receive wireless signals signals by way of wired or optical pathways or in accordance with other techniques. The memory may also store the assistance module as described elsewhere herein.

The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet receiver secured data handling or communications resources and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code one or more data tables or another data structure or structures to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other servers or computing devices network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store device data or one or more maps or both as respectively described elsewhere herein. Additionally the datastore may further store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

In one instance the server may be configured to access online resources such as county auditor property records and use such information toward generating or augmenting one or more of the maps . Thus such Internet based resources may provide information used to generate floor plans or other plots and so forth. Additionally the server may be further configured to solicit user permissions before accessing or using information or data acquired by online resources.

Block acquires using a computing device information regarding a first electronic device . For purposes of a present illustration the user operates the computing device so as to communicate with the automation controller by way of wireless signals . The automation controller is one of a several electronic devices located in or about a home of the user wherein the home has numerous rooms such as a living room a kitchen and so on.

The computing device then acquires device data from the automation controller such as make or model data information regarding various communicational protocols that the automation controller is configured to use and so forth. Other kinds of device data may also be acquired. The device data corresponding to the automation controller may then be stored in non transitory CRSM of the computing device .

Block determines using the computing device a location of the first electronic device . In the present example the user uses a locating device such as a GPS receiver or inertial locator of the computing device to determine a device location of the automation controller . Specifically the user places the computing device proximate to the automation controller and provides user input triggering the determination of the device location . The device location may include latitude longitude or elevation data a location relative to a reference point or other suitable data. The device location of the automation controller may then be stored in non transitory CRSM of the computing device .

Block acquires information regarding a second electronic device . In the present example the user moves to a location near to the computer and establishes communication between the computer and the computing device by way of wireless signals . Device data is then acquired from the computer and may include make or model information identification of one or more applications runnable by the computer various communicational modes or protocols or other data corresponding to the computer . Device data corresponding to the computer may then be stored in non transitory CRSM of the computing device .

Block determines a location of the second electronic device . In the present example the user places the computing device proximate to the computer and triggers the location determination function. The determined device location may include latitude longitude elevation data a location relative to a reference point or other suitable data. The device location of the computer may then be stored in non transitory CRSM of the computing device .

Block determines locations of respective benchmarks about a perimeter of a structure. In the present example the user may carry the computing device to a point of interest outside of their home such as a corner or apex defined by respective exterior walls . The user then uses a locating device of the computing device to determine a location of that point of interest thus defining a reference location . For instance the locating device may be a GPS receiver or other satellite based positioning device an inertial locating system a cellular positioning or triangulation device and so on.

The user may then proceed on to other points of interest using the computing device to determine other respective reference locations . The location data for the respective reference locations may be formatted or quantified in any suitable units of measure and may be stored within non transitory CRSM of the computing device .

Block generates a map including a floor plan of the structure and icons for the first and second electronic devices . In the present example the mapping module may access information stored within CRSM of the computing device including the respective device locations and the reference locations . The mapping module may also access device data corresponding to the computer and the automation controller . The mapping module may then use these respective data to generate a 2D floor plan map .

The 2D floor plan map may include among other things visible representations for exterior walls based upon the reference locations . The 2D floor plan map may also include respective default icons corresponding to the computer and the automation controller . The user interface may thereafter be used so as to add or edit various visible characteristics of the 2D floor plan map plot doorways furniture or windows adjust the plotted positions of the default icons for the computer and the automation controller and so forth. Thus the user may amend or enhance the appearance of visible presentations of the 2D floor plan map in accordance with various computer aided techniques.

Block stores the map in non transitory storage media. In the present example the user may actuate a done control causing the user interface to close and the computing device to save the generated and potentially edited 2D floor plan map within non transitory memory . The user may now access the 2D floor plan map at a later time view a presentation of the 2D floor plan map while accessing or learning about different functions or cooperative operations performable by the respective electronic devices and so on.

Block acquires identities and locations of respective electronic devices . For purposes of a present example the user moves about within a living room of their home using the computing device to determine a device location of a television a device location of a set top box and a device location of a sound system . Additionally the user manually enters identifiers or other device data for the television the set top box and the sound system by way of a user interface .

Block populates a data structure using the identities and locations of the electronic devices . In the present example the device data and the respective device locations are stored as a data table within non transitory CRSM of the computing device .

Block generates a map locating the respective electronic devices relative to each other. In the present example the mapping module accesses the device data and the device locations within CRSM and generates data describing a 2D floor plan map . As such location data is determined or derived for the television the set top box and the sound system respectively. Relative locations for these three electronic devices within the map may be determined or estimated in accordance with the device locations .

Block presents the map by way of a user interface . In the present example the mapping module presents the current instance of the 2D floor plan map by way of the user interface . As such the user may scroll or pan so as to view respective areas of the 2D floor plan map and so forth. The 2D floor plan map includes default icons visibly representing the television the set top box and the sound system respectively.

Block amends the map in accordance with user input to the user interface . In the present example the user moves a pointer by way of manipulating a computer mouse touch screen gesturing or other input technique so as to select the sound system icon from within the icons window . The user then places the sound system icon so as to replace the default icon corresponding to the sound system within the 2D floor plan map .

Analogous operations may also be performed replacing the default icons representing the television the set top box respectively. Thus the user may enhance the appearance of a visible presentation of the 2D floor plan map by way of intuitive looking representations of real world electronic devices . The user may operate or use other tools presented by the user interface to add representations of walls define doorways and so forth so as to improve the appearance and usefulness of the 2D floor plan map .

Block stores the map in non transitory storage media. In the present example the user actuates a done control causing the computing device to store the changed version of the 2D floor plan map within the memory . The computing device also closes the user interface and returns the user to another application or user interface. Other suitable closing operations may also be performed.

Block accesses a data structure having information regarding a first electronic device . For purposes of a present example the mapping module of the computing device accesses device data corresponding to various electronic devices within an area of interest such as a home. Such an operation may be triggered for instance by a user seeking to view information regarding the television .

Block presents the information by way of a user interface . In the present example the user interface is displayed by the computing device . The user interface cites to or includes an identifier referring to the television within the device listing . The user may select the television within the device listing causing corresponding device data to appear within the device data edit box . Thus the user may view information or characteristics regarding the television including manufacturer model or model number communicational modes or protocols connections or cooperative operations performed with other electronic devices and so on.

Block amends the information in accordance with user input to the user interface . In the present example the user is aware that the television is connected to receive digital audio and video signaling from the set top box by way of an HDMI protocol wired connection but that such information is lacking from the presented device data . The user then provides input to the user interface indicative of the HDMI connection between the television and the set top box . The corresponding device data is updated in accordance with the user input.

Device data regarding the set top box may be similarly changed by way of automatic operation of the mapping module that is without deliberate action or awareness of the user . The amended device data regarding the television and possibly the set top box may then be stored in non transitory memory of the computing device .

Block acquires information regarding a second electronic device by way of the user interface . In the present example the user notes that the sound system does not appear within the device listing . The user then inputs information regarding the sound system by way of input boxes selectable options pull down menus or other tools provided within the add new device tools section of user interface .

Block stores the information regarding the first and second electronic devices in the data structure. In the present example the user may actuate a done control within the user interface causing the just amended device data to be stored within the memory of the computing device .

Block amends the contents of a map in accordance with the information regarding the first and second electronic devices . In the present example the mapping module accesses the device data as stored within the memory . The mapping module may then access the device data and use recently changed or added information to amend the 2D floor plan map accordingly. That is a changed map may be generated or stored using the changed or amended device data .

For instance a connection between the television and the set top box may be visibly added in accordance with the user input at block above. Additionally a default icon representative of the sound system may be added to the 2D floor plan map in accordance with the user input at block above. Other changes or additions to the 2D floor plan map may also be made according to the device data .

Block stores the map in non transitory storage media. In the present example the mapping module may then store the amended or changed version of the 2D floor plan map within memory of the computing device . In this way changes to an existing map may be made in accordance with user corrections or additions to device data corresponding to electronic devices plotted within the map .

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

