---

title: Methods of forming buried junction devices in silicon carbide using ion implant channeling and silicon carbide devices including buried junctions
abstract: A semiconductor device structure according to some embodiments includes a silicon carbide substrate having a first conductivity type, a silicon carbide drift layer having the first conductivity type on the silicon carbide substrate and having an upper surface opposite the silicon carbide substrate, and a buried junction structure in the silicon carbide drift layer. The buried junction structure has a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and has a junction depth that is greater than about one micron.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09484413&OS=09484413&RS=09484413
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09484413
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140605
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 858 926 filed Jul. 26 2013 and entitled Controlled Ion Implantation Into Silicon Carbide Using Channeling And Devices Fabricated Using Controlled Ion Implantation Into Silicon Carbide Using Channeling the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W911NF 10 2 0038 awarded by Army Research Laboratory. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to semiconductor device fabrication and more particularly to ion implantation for fabricating semiconductor devices.

Ion implantation is a semiconductor device fabrication technique that may be used to change the electronic properties of a semiconductor wafer by adding specific dopants to the wafer. More particularly in conventional ion implantation a desired ion species to be implanted into the wafer may be ionized accelerated to a predetermined kinetic energy and directed as an ion beam towards the surface of a semiconductor wafer loaded in an ion implantation target chamber. Based on the predetermined kinetic energy the desired ion species may penetrate into the semiconductor wafer to a certain depth. As such ions may be embedded i.e. implanted into the semiconductor wafer which may thereby alter the electrical properties of the semiconductor wafer.

A semiconductor device structure according to some embodiments includes a silicon carbide substrate having a first conductivity type a silicon carbide drift layer having the first conductivity type on the silicon carbide substrate and having an upper surface opposite the silicon carbide substrate and a buried junction structure in the silicon carbide drift layer. The buried junction structure has a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and has a junction depth that is greater than about one micron.

The buried junction structure may include a buried region having the second conductivity type. The buried junction structure may have a thickness of about 0.1 microns to about 3 microns.

The silicon carbide drift layer may include an upper drift layer and a lower drift layer. The lower drift layer is between the substrate and the upper drift layer and the upper drift layer has a thickness that may be greater than about one micron. The upper and lower drift layers may be separated by the buried junction structure.

The buried junction structure has a junction depth and the semiconductor device has a radius of curvature that is equal to a thickness of the lower drift layer less the junction depth of the buried region.

The junction depth of the buried junction structure may be greater than about 2 microns and in some embodiments greater than about 4 microns.

The buried junction structure may include a plurality of buried regions arranged in a grid. The plurality of buried regions may be electrically isolated from one another.

The buried junction structure may include a first buried junction structure having a first junction depth and the semiconductor device further includes a second buried junction structure having a second junction depth that is different from the first junction depth.

The semiconductor device may further include a junction termination structure adjacent an active region of the device.

The junction termination structure may include a guard ring and or a junction termination extension region.

The buried junction structure may include a first buried junction structure having a first junction depth and the semiconductor device further includes a second buried junction structure having a second junction depth that may be greater than the first junction depth.

Methods of forming an electronic device according to some embodiments include providing a silicon carbide drift layer having a first conductivity type and a first doping concentration and having a crystallographic axis and implanting dopant ions to form a buried junction structure in the silicon carbide drift region. The buried junction structure has a second conductivity type that is opposite the first conductivity type and has a second doping concentration that may be greater than the first doping concentration. Implanting the dopant ions includes implanting the dopant ions at an implant angle between a direction of implantation and the crystallographic axis of less than about 2 .

In some embodiments the implant angle may be greater than 0.1 and in some embodiments the implant angle may be between 0.1 and 1 . In further embodiments the implant angle may be between 0.1 and 5 .

The buried junction structure may have a junction depth of from about 2.5 microns to about 4.5 microns into the drift layer and a doping concentration of from about 1E17 cmto about 1E20 cm.

The methods may further include forming a junction termination structure adjacent an active region of the device.

The buried junction structure may include a first buried junction structure having a first junction depth the method further including forming a second buried junction structure in the drift layer the second buried junction structure having a second junction depth that is different from the first junction depth.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the thickness of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a binary change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation of for example light elements such as boron and or beryllium may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms used in disclosing embodiments of the invention including technical and scientific terms have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs and are not necessarily limited to the specific definitions known at the time of the present invention being described. Accordingly these terms can include equivalent terms that are created after such time. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the present specification and in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The fabrication of semiconductor devices in silicon carbide is difficult partly due to the high temperatures needed for many device fabrication processes. For example growth temperatures and annealing temperatures are significantly higher in silicon carbide than in other material systems such as silicon. In addition fabrication of silicon carbide devices is made more difficult by the high thermal stability of dopant atoms in silicon carbide. In particular the high thermal stability of dopant atoms in silicon carbide means that dopant diffusion a common doping technique in silicon based device fabrication is not generally useful in silicon carbide.

Accordingly in fabricating silicon carbide devices it is often necessary to use other techniques such as epitaxial growth regrowth and ion implantation to form doped regions in silicon carbide.

The use of epitaxial growth regrowth and lithography to form doped regions in silicon carbide while useful is time consuming and expensive. Such techniques also often require time consuming alignment steps and may not be suitable for forming all regions needed for device fabrication.

Ion implantation is a flexible and convenient method for selectively doping portions of a silicon carbide layer. In an ion implantation process dopant ions are accelerated to a high energy usually expressed in keV or MeV and directed towards a semiconductor lattice. The implants penetrate the lattice and come to rest somewhere within the lattice. The number of ions implanted into a semiconductor layer referred to as the dose is usually expressed in terms of ions per square centimeter cm . Selective implantation is performed by masking portions of the layer to prevent ions from penetrating the masked portions of layer.

However ion implantation has certain well known drawbacks. In particular when dopant ions are implanted into a semiconductor layer the ions cause irradiation damage to the crystal lattice of the semiconductor layer. To repair the lattice damage the structure must be annealed at relatively high temperatures e.g. greater than 1200 C. and in some cases greater than 1600 C. . Even with high temperature annealing and or long anneal times some lattice damage may remain.

Moreover conventional ion implantation may not be attractive for use in forming deep implanted regions or regions requiring a high level of doping uniformity by depth. Implant range refers to the average depth of implanted ions. The depth of implanted ions is directly related to the energy of the implant i.e. ions implanted into a semiconductor layer at higher energies tend to go deeper into the layer. Thus forming deep implanted regions requires high energy implants. However lattice damage is also directly related to implant energy higher energy implants also tend to cause more lattice damage than lower energy implants. High energy implants also require thick mask layers which can cause undesirable shadowing of implants.

As used herein implant depth refers to the depth of the implanted region which is greater than the depth at which the peak implant concentration occurs. In particular implant depth refers herein to the depth at which the concentration of implanted dopants falls below 10cm. Note that the implant depth may not correspond to the junction depth of a p n junction formed by the implanted region as p n junction location is affected by the doping levels of neighboring regions.

Moreover to form implanted regions that have good doping uniformity by depth it is necessary to perform multiple implantation steps with multiple energies and dosages. Each implant step increases the time and cost needed to fabricate the structure.

Embodiments of the present invention are based on a realization that implant channeling can be used to controllably form implanted regions in silicon carbide that are highly uniform by depth using lower energy implants which result in reduced lattice damage. According to some embodiments the depth of a channeled implant can be controlled by performing the implant at an elevated temperature which can reduce the depth of the implant. The depth of the implant can also be controlled by altering the angle of the implant. Reducing the lattice damage can reduce the temperature and or time of the post implant anneal which can increase fabrication throughput and or decrease fabrication costs.

Channeling is a phenomenon experienced when ions are implanted along a crystal axis of a semiconductor. When ions are implanted into a crystal lattice the implanted ions tend to scatter when they impact atoms in the crystal lattice referred to as impact scattering . When the direction of implantation is oriented at an oblique angle to the major axes of the crystal lattice the atoms in the lattice appear to have a random distribution relative to the direction of implantation. The likelihood of collisions between implanted ions and atoms in the crystal lattice is thus fairly uniform with increasing depth. If however direction of implantation is close to a major axis of the crystal lattice the atoms in the crystal lattice appear to line up relative to the direction of implantation and the implanted ions appear to travel down the channels created by then crystal structure. This reduces the likelihood of collisions between the implanted ions and the atoms in the crystal lattice especially near the surface of the semiconductor layer. As a result the depth of the implant is greatly increased.

Ordinarily it is not desirable for the depth of the implant to be increased by channeling as the depth of the implant may be greater than the desired depth of the implanted region. Because it is difficult to control the depth of a channeled implant using conventional techniques. Thus in silicon carbide processing for example it is conventional when implanting ions at an angle that is near a crystallographic axis of the semiconductor layer to form a sacrificial layer such as silicon dioxide on the layer to be implanted and to implant the semiconductor layer through the amorphous layer. The screen layer has the effect of randomizing the direction of the implanted ions thereby reducing the channeling effect of the underlying lattice structure.

In general channeling occurs in silicon carbide when the direction of implantation is within about 2 of a crystallographic axis of the silicon carbide crystal. When the direction of implantation is more than about 2 of a crystallographic axis of the silicon carbide crystal the atoms in the lattice appear to be randomly distributed relative to the direction of implantation which reduces channeling effects. As used herein the term implant angle refers to the angle between the direction of implantation and a crystallographic axis such as the c axis or axis of the semiconductor layer into which ions are implanted. Thus an implant angle of less than about 2 relative to the c axis of a silicon carbide layer is expected to result in channeling.

Some embodiments utilize channeled implants for implantation of shallow and or deep implanted regions in silicon carbide. The depth of the channeled implants may be controlled by controlling the temperature of the implantation and or through precise control of the direction of implantation relative to the crystallographic axes of the semiconductor layer.

An exemplary structure that may be formed using embodiments described herein is illustrated in . The device shown in is a MOSFET device having various regions that can be formed by ion implantation. However it will be appreciated that embodiments disclosed herein can be advantageously employed to form various regions of many different kinds of semiconductor devices including for example metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs insulated gate bipolar transistors IGBTs Schottky diodes PIN diodes etc. Moreover although certain layers of the device of are described as having a specified conductivity type i.e. n type or p type it will be appreciated that the conductivity types of the layers could be reversed e.g. layers and or regions designated as n type could be p type and vice versa . The exemplary structure includes an n type drift layer on an n substrate . The substrate may for example include a single crystal silicon carbide layer having the 4H or 6H polytype although other polytypes may be used. Moreover the substrate may have an off axis orientation of about 2 to about 10 . That is the c axis of the hexagonal crystal structure of the silicon carbide crystal may be slightly tilted relative to a direction normal to the substrate surface.

P type wells are provided at an upper surface of the drift layer. The p type wells may be doped for example with p type dopants such as aluminum and or boron ions at a concentration of about 1E16 cmto 1E19 cm. The p type wells have a junction depth of about 0.3 microns to 1.2 microns. Deep p regions are formed beneath the p type wells . The deep p type regions may be doped for example with p type dopants such as aluminum and or boron ions at a concentration that is higher than the concentration of the p type wells .

P guard rings are formed at a periphery of the device at the surface of the drift layer . The P guard rings may be formed to a depth of about 0.5 to 1.5 microns and may be doped for example with p type dopants such as aluminum and or boron ions at a concentration of about 1E15 cmto 1E16 cm.

A junction field effect transistor JFET region is formed between the p type wells . The JFET region may have a thickness of about 0.5 microns to 1.5 microns may be doped for example with n type dopants such as nitrogen and or phosphorus ions at a concentration of about 1E15 cmto 5E17 cm.

N source regions are formed in the p well regions and are spaced apart from the JFET region to define channel regions between the n source regions and the JFET region. The n source regions may be doped for example with n type dopants such as nitrogen and or phosphorus ions at a concentration of about 5E18 cmto 1E21 cm. The n source regions may have a depth of about 0.2 microns to 1.2 microns.

The channel regions may be implanted with p type or n type dopants as desired to obtain a desired threshold voltage. In particular the channel regions may be doped for example with p type dopants such as aluminum and or boron ions at a concentration of about 1E17 cmto 2E18 cm. The channel regions may have a depth of about 50 nm to 300 nm.

P well contact regions are formed in the p well regions adjacent the n source regions. The p well contact regions may have a depth of about 0.2 microns to 1.2 microns and may be doped for example with p type dopants such as aluminum and or boron ions at a concentration of about 5E18 cmto 1E21 cm.

A gate insulator such as silicon dioxide is provided on the drift layer and extends from the n source layers over the channel regions and the JFET region . A gate contact which may include polysilicon with a metal overlayer is on the gate insulator .

Source ohmic contacts are formed on the n source regions and the p well contact regions and a drain ohmic contact is formed on the substrate .

For current to flow from the source contacts to the drain contact across the drift layer a sufficient voltage may be applied to the gate contact to create an inversion layer in the channel region so that n type carriers from the source regions can traverse the well regions and cross the drift region and the substrate to the drain contact .

As will be appreciated from the foregoing discussion many of the regions of the device of can be advantageously formed by selective ion implantation. For example the well regions the source regions the well contact regions the JFET region and the channel regions can all be formed using ion implantation. These regions have widely varying depths and doping concentrations. Conventionally the deeper regions such as the JFET region and the well regions would be formed using multiple implant steps with a silicon dioxide mask layer to reduce prevent channeling effects.

For example a conventional device processing recipe may call for a deep p type implant. It has been found that implanting Al ions at 360 keV results in unacceptably high levels of lattice damage particularly at the End of Distribution BUD i.e. the deepest penetration of the ions as well as at the sides of the implant pattern. As a result it has been necessary to form the deep p type regions using multiple implant steps of double ionized Al ions which requires ten times more time to perform the implant. The channel implants and JFET region implants also suffer from unacceptable levels of lattice damage at the EOD and sides of the implant pattern. Some embodiments enable the formation of deep implants in silicon carbide using low energy ion implantation.

According to some embodiments channeled ion implantation may be used to form one or more doped regions in a silicon carbide semiconductor device. Referring to a silicon carbide substrate on which an epitaxial layer is formed may be implanted with ions . The direction of implantation may be substantially parallel to the c axis of the hexagonal semiconductor lattice of the substrate and the epitaxial layer . As used herein substantially parallel means that the direction of implantation is less than 2 different from the direction of the c axis of the semiconductor lattice.

As noted above the silicon carbide substrate and the epitaxial layer formed thereon may have an off axis orientation of for example 2 to 10 . Thus as illustrated in the c axis of the silicon carbide substrate may be aligned with the direction of travel of the implants by tilting the substrate at a tilt angle a that is equal to the off axis angle of the substrate. The angle of implantation can be tightly controlled to a resolution for example of 0.1 using Rutherford backscattering to align the substrate with the implant beam.

An implant mask not shown may be provided on the epitaxial layer to define regions of the epitaxial layer that are to be implanted.

High temperature ion implantation may be performed in an apparatus as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 547 897 entitled High temperature ion implantation apparatus and methods of fabricating semiconductor devices using high temperature ion implantation assigned to the assignee of the present application the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.

According to some embodiments various doped regions in a silicon carbide device structure can be formed by implanting ions directly into a silicon carbide layer without first passing through a screen layer and substantially in alignment with a crystallographic axis of the silicon carbide layer to result in channeling effects. The implant may be performed at a temperature that is greater than room temperature and that is selected to provide a desired depth of implant.

The depth of the implant may also be controlled by precisely controlling the tilt angle of the wafer relative to the implant direction. For example by increasing the temperature of implantation it may be possible to reduce the depth of channeled implants. By implanting the ions at an angle that is slightly tilted relative to the crystallographic axis for example at an angle greater than 0 and less than about 2 the depth of the implant can be controlled further.

Highly uniform doping can be obtained for channeled implants. However as the dose of the implant increases a secondary peak may begin to appear near the surface. This may be attributed to increased lattice damage caused by high fluences of dopant ions.

Channeled implants may have significantly greater depths than non channeled implants. Implant depth can be controlled by carefully controlling the tilt angle of the implantation. Rotation angle during implantation may also affect dopant distributions of channeled implants.

Moreover the channeled implants performed at high temperatures e.g. 500 C. may have a significantly shorter depth than the channeled implants performed at room temperature. In addition channeled implants performed at elevated temperature may have a slightly shorter depth but better doping uniformity than the channeled implants performed at room temperature.

According to some embodiments a silicon carbide layer may be implanted with ions at an implant angle less than 2 at an implant energy less than about 100 keV and a temperature greater than 300 C. to provide an implanted region having a depth that is less than about 1 micron in some cases less than about 0.5 microns in some cases less than about 0.3 microns in some cases less than about 0.2 microns and in some cases less than about 0.1 microns. In some embodiments the implantation may be performed at a temperature greater than 400 C. in some embodiments at a temperature greater than 600 C. in some embodiments at a temperature greater than 1000 C. and in some embodiments at a temperature greater than 1100 C. In some cases the silicon carbide layer may be implanted at an implant angle that is less than 1 in some cases less than 0.5 in some cases between 0.1 and 0.5 and in some cases less than 0.1 .

Although not wishing to be bound by a particular theory it is presently believed that when ion implantation is performed on a semiconductor layer two types of defects are introduced into the semiconductor layer. The first type of defect Type I defects is caused when implanted ions break bonds of the atoms in the lattice structure of the semiconductor layer. The second type of defect Type II defects is a defect in the location of the implanted ions themselves as the implanted ions may not come to rest at an electrically active position within the semiconductor lattice. Annealing repairs the lattice damage caused by the ion implantation and also encourages the implanted ions to move to electrically active sites in the semiconductor lattice. High temperature implantation tends to reduce the occurrence of Type I defects while channeling tends to reduce the occurrence of Type II defects.

Thus a semiconductor layer implanted using high temperature channeled implants may require an anneal for a time and or temperature that may be significantly lower than would otherwise be required for a similar depth implant due to the reduced lattice damage caused by the low energy high temperature channeled implants. In some cases the time temperature product of the anneal may be more than ten times lower than would otherwise be required for a similar depth implant. In particular embodiments the semiconductor layer may be annealed at a temperature of less than about 1000 C. for a time of less than about 30 hours to activate the implanted channeled ions.

In particular embodiments the implant angle may be controlled to within 0.1 accuracy to obtain a controllable result. Such accuracy is obtainable for example with the VIISTa 810 ion implanter manufactured by Varian Semiconductor Associates Gloucester Mass. USA.

It will be noted that in silicon device processing high temperature channeled ion implantation is not expected to have similar effects as high temperature channeled ion implantation in silicon carbide. Silicon is generally less robust than silicon carbide thus is more susceptible to lattice damage during ion implantation than silicon carbide even when the implantation is channeled. This lattice damage tends to close the channels limiting the depth of the implants. However it will be noted that even in silicon carbide lattice damage can limit the implant depth of channeled implants as the dose is increased. For example M. Janson et al. Channeled Implants in 6H Silicon Carbide Mat. Sci. For. Vols. 338 342 2000 pp 889 892 describes the dependence of implant depth on dose for high energy 1 MeV channeled implants. Janson et al. note that at 1.5 MeV implant energies the implant range of Al implants begins to become dependent on dose at about 11 10cm. A similar effect can be observed for 200 keV implants in 4H SiC.

Moreover due to its crystal structure silicon experiences better crystallographic reconstruction after implantation than silicon carbide. In particular silicon has a diamond cubic crystal structure that organizes vertically in the lattice. Thus it is preferable with silicon to use high energy implants that amorphize the silicon atoms. The crystal structure of silicon can then be reconstructed by annealing. Silicon carbide on the other hand has a hexagonal crystal structure that organizes laterally. For example epitaxial crystal growth in silicon carbide occurs by a lateral step flow mechanism. It is therefore not desirable to amorphize the silicon carbide lattice as it is difficult for the lattice to be reconstructed in the desired polytype even with high temperature annealing.

In some embodiments the silicon carbide layer may be annealed at a temperature of less than 1200 C. in some cases less than 1100 C. in some cases less than 1000 C. and in some cases less than 600 C.

Some further embodiments of power semiconductor devices that incorporate channeled implants in silicon carbide will now be described. In vertical power devices the blocking voltage rating of the device is determined by the thickness and the doping of the drift region. Typically during the design phase a desired blocking voltage rating is selected and then the thickness and doping of the drift region are chosen based on the desired blocking voltage rating.

When vertical power semiconductor devices are operated in the blocking i.e. non conducting mode the electric field profile in the drift region is triangular with the peak of the electric field appearing close to the P N junction. For reducing the ON resistance of the drift region it is desirable to increase the doping concentration in the drift region. However as the doping concentration of the drift region increases the peak electric field in the drift region in the blocking mode of operation also increases. The increase in peak electric field reduces the breakdown voltage of the device in the blocking mode. Thus there is a tradeoff between ON resistance and blocking voltage for such devices due to the relationship between the blocking voltage and the doping level of the drift layer. However for a desired blocking voltage there may be an optimal selection of drift layer doping and drift layer thickness that minimizes the drift resistance. This is known as the one dimensional unipolar limit for 4H SiC.

The use of high implant energies to form deeply implanted regions may be enhanced using channeling. Ordinarily high energy implants are believed to be detrimental to device performance because of the increased lateral distribution of implanted ions as well as the increased concentration of end of range defects ERDs introduced into the semiconductor lattice as a result of the high energy implants. The use of channeling to increase the implant range may reduce ERDs and may also reduce the lateral distribution of implants which provides better process control and smaller feature sizes. In addition thinner implant masks may be used when channeled implantation is performed because the implant energies may be lower than would otherwise be required to achieve similar implant ranges.

End of range defects are believed to have a large impact on device performance. Because channeling reduces ERDs the use of channeling may have a significant impact on device performance. Moreover because of the relative strength of the silicon carbide lattice silicon carbide is expected to handle channeled implants without significant lattice damage much better than conventional semiconductor materials such as silicon.

For channeled implants at lower energies e.g. about 10 keV or lower it is believed that most of the ion collisions that limit the implant range are nuclear collisions i.e. collisions with atomic nuclei in the lattice. This increases the amount of implant damage suffered by the semiconductor crystal lattice. Conversely it is believed that for higher energy i.e. deeper channeled implants the implanted ions experience relatively more collisions with the electron cloud within the semiconductor lattice resulting in less lattice damage. Thus from the standpoint of lattice damage channeled implants behave very differently from non channeled implants. For non channeled implants the amount of lattice damage caused by the implantation generally increases with implant energy. Therefore channeled implants may be particularly well suited for forming very deep implanted regions e.g. 2.5 microns or greater.

The implants illustrated in were performed without an SiOscreen layer directly on the surface of the SiC wafer. For such implant energies the expected penetration depth Rp for Al without channeling would be Rp 0.33 m for 300 keV Rp 0.52 m for 500 keV Rp 0.71 m for 750 keV. The channeling condition enabled the implanted Al atoms to extend about four times deeper into the wafer with a flat concentration of about 7E16 cm which is reasonable for a deep p type doping level.

As illustrated in the implant distribution represented by curve 500 keV 5E13 cm has a higher implant peak than the implant distribution represented by curve 750 keV 5E13 cm . The higher peak of curve may indicate that greater lattice damage occurred with the lower energy implant than the higher energy implant.

As described above a channeling implant process is difficult to control in some types of implant devices. The ion channeling process requires a high degree of parallelism of the ion beam and precise orientation of the wafer to the ion beam direction in the ion implant device especially when processing large diameter wafers. Tight control of these parameters may enable a consistent doping distribution which helps to achieve proper and reproducible results. The use of channeled implants as described herein can also reduce the need for multiple implants to achieve a specified sheet resistance.

When channeling is not utilized it may be possible to obtain deep implants using high implant energies. For example deep p type implants may be obtained using single condition implantation of Al ions at an implant energy of 360 keV. The implant may be performed using a screen SiOlayer to obtain a reproducible distribution of implanted ions in the target wafer while holding the target wafer at an orientation of about 4 degrees off from the C axis toward the 11 20 axis. However such implant conditions may result in an unacceptably high degree of lattice damage at the ions End Of Distribution EOD as well as side damage in the lateral directions.

Using channeling implants along the C axis to form some features of a SiC based device can reduce the number of implant steps required to obtain a deep dopant distribution and at the same time reduce lattice damage. Reduced lattice damage may also reduce the post implant anneal temperature and or anneal time.

Channeled implants can be used advantageously to form devices having buried junctions such as floating grids buried within the drift layer. Buried junction structures can reduce the drift region resistance for high voltage devices by a factor of two or more depending on the number of floating junction grids used.

The device further includes a buried junction structure comprising a grid of buried p type regions . The buried p type regions may be electrically floating i.e. not conductively connected to one another or to any other portion of the device. The buried p type regions have an opposite conductivity as the drift layer and form a built in p n junction with the drift layer . For example when formed in an n type drift layer the buried p type regions may be formed using implants of aluminum and or boron.

The buried p type regions may have a doping concentration that is greater than the doping concentrations of the upper and lower drift layers A B. For example the buried p type regions may have a doping concentration of about 1E17 cmor more and in some embodiments of about 1E20 cmor more.

In the structure B the drift layer is divided into an upper drift layer A and a lower drift layer B. The upper drift layer A is the portion of the drift layer between the surface of the drift layer and the buried junction structure while the lower drift layer B is the portion of the drift layer between the substrate and the buried junction structure . The upper drift layer A is characterized by a first width Wbetween the surface of the drift layer and the upper surface of the buried junction structure and a first doping concentration N. The lower drift layer B is characterized by a second width Wbetween the substrate and the upper surface of the buried junction structure and having a second doping concentration N.

The buried p type regions are characterized by having a formation depth of W i.e. the thickness of the upper drift layer A and a vertical thickness x as illustrated in and discussed in more detail below. That is the buried p type regions may be formed at a depth of Win the drift layer and may extend to a junction depth of W xin the drift layer .

Additional buried junction grids can be provided at different depths in the drift layer to further reduce the device on state resistance.

Buried junction structures have been experimentally demonstrated in both Si and 4H SiC however their formation in 4H SiC is made difficult by the limited diffusivity and implantation range of acceptor ions that are used to form the buried junction. Deep junctions are desirable to reduce the radius of curvature R of the junction which in turn reduces the electric field crowding in the off state and increases the device breakdown voltage. The radius of curvature of the structure refers to the distance between the junction depth of the deepest buried p type region e.g. at the depth of W xfor a device structure having a single buried junction structure and the substrate . Stated differently the radius of curvature for a device structure may be about equal to W x where xis the thickness of the lowest buried junction structure .

Some embodiments use ion channeling to form deep buried p type regions in a silicon carbide drift layer of an electronic device. In some embodiments the implants may be used to form the buried p type regions at a formation depth Wof greater than about 1 micron and to have a thickness xof about 0.1 microns to 3 microns. Accordingly in some embodiments the junction depth of the buried p type regions may be greater than about 1 micron. In further embodiments the junction depth of the buried p type regions may be greater than about 2 microns and in still further embodiments greater than about 4 microns.

As discussed above ion implantation is typically performed at a so called random angle with respect to the crystal orientation to ensure that collisions between ions and the atoms that make up the crystal are randomized and providing a well controlled Gaussian doping profile. However if the angle of the incident beam is tightly controlled with respect to the crystal it is possible to align the beam with the crystal planes such that the implanted ions stop at a much deeper range than would be possible using a randomized implant process.

Traditionally deep junctions in 4H SiC e.g. junctions deeper than about 1 micron have been formed using high energy high dose ion implants. This process is undesirable for formation of buried junctions in high voltage devices for two reasons. For example high energy dose implants cause damage to the epitaxial drift layer. The crystal defects that are created by this damage can serve as carrier generation centers when a device is in the blocking state potentially resulting in high leakage currents. Second the damage caused by high energy dose implants can also change the morphology of the surface of the epitaxial layer. Subsequent epitaxial growth can be negatively impacted by the surface damage induced by the ion implants. This can also result in unacceptably high levels of leakage currents in the off state of the device.

Junctions formed using implant channeling as described herein can achieve deep profiles without the use of high energies and doses and may therefore be free from either of these undesirable effects while maintaining the low radius of curvature of a deep junction. This is especially important for high voltage 3 kV devices where the drift region is long with respect to the junction depth. In addition even with high energies and doses the greatest practically achievable junction depth using standard semiconductor manufacturing technology is approximately 1 micron in 4H SiC using aluminum as an implant species. This is very small compared to drift layer thicknesses that are used in high voltage devices which range from 15 microns thick up to 200 or more microns thick.

An example cross section detail of portions of a buried junction device C formed using standard ion implants is shown in . The device C has a junction depth of about 1 micron or less. This means that the device has a radius of curvature Requal to the W x where W W W and Wis the overall thickness of the drift layer. However because W xis less than 1 micron the value of Wremains relatively large.

Channeled implants can enable the formation of a deep junction i.e. a junction with a junction depth W x greater than 1 micron without the use of high implant energies and or high implant doses. An example cross section of a portions of a buried junction device D containing a deep junction formed using channeled ion implants is shown in . As can be seen in the radius of curvature Rcan be significantly reduced when the junction depth is increased. As noted above decreasing the radius of curvature can reduce electric field crowding in the off state and increase the device breakdown voltage.

Reference is again made to which shows the concentration profile of an on axis implant performed in 4H SiC using low doses and moderate energies and therefore low implant damage. The doping concentrations shown in are appropriate for use in a buried P grid. The high junction depth may mitigate junction curvature effects and thereby increase device breakdown voltages.

Example embodiments include devices with a single deep P grid embedded in the middle of a power device s N type drift region formed using either a single channeled ion implant or a series of channeled ion implants. For example some embodiments may be applicable to any power electronics switch or diode with either an N type or P type drift region such as MOSFETs and Schottky diodes including junction barrier Schottky devices as well as JFETs and high voltage BJTs that operate predominantly in the unipolar mode. Some embodiments may be particularly useful in the fabrication of power semiconductor devices having blocking voltages of 2 kV or greater.

Some embodiments may also be applied to bipolar devices such as PiN diodes IGBTs and thyristors that have the added advantage of reduced resistance at high temperatures

Some embodiments may be used to form devices having the opposite polarity as those illustrated in . For example in some embodiments an n buried grid may be formed in a p type drift region.

The buried junction structure and or the buried regions can either be aligned to structures on the top or bottom of the drift region or not aligned to any structures.

Some embodiments include devices with more than one p or n buried junction structure formed using channeled ion implants embedded splitting the drift region into three or more parts as illustrated in .

The first and second buried junction structures A B may divide the drift layer into a first drift layer portion A a second drift layer portion B and a third drift layer portion C. The first second and third drift layer portions may have thicknesses of W Wand W respectively and doping concentrations of N Nand N respectively. The thicknesses W Wand Wmay be the same and or different from one another. Likewise the doping concentrations N Nand Nmay be the same and or different from one another.

The first and second buried junction structures A B may be spaced apart by a vertical spacing S that is equal to W x. In some embodiments the spacing S may be from about 0.1 microns to about 3 microns.

Although two buried junction structures A B are shown in devices according to some embodiments may include more than two buried junction structures having different junction depths different spacings different thicknesses and or doping concentrations.

Devices according to further embodiments include edge termination structures formed using channeled ion implants in the middle of the drift region away from the active region . Edge termination structures may be either guard ring type formed using the same energy dose as the P grid JTE type formed using a lower dose and different pattern or a combination thereof. Edge termination structures may be aligned to the center buried junction structure formed using channeled ion implants.

For example illustrates a Schottky diode structure including a buried junction structure and a buried edge termination structure . The device includes an n 4H SiC substrate on which an n type drift layer is formed. A Schottky contact is formed on the drift layer opposite the substrate and a cathode contact is formed on the substrate . A buried junction structure including a plurality of doped regions is formed in the device at a junction depth of W xand divides the drift layer into an upper drift layer A and a lower drift layer B. The junction depth may be greater than 1 micron. In some embodiments the junction depth may be greater than 2 microns and in further embodiments greater than 4 microns. The buried junction structure may be formed using channeled ion implantation as described herein and may be formed using one implant step or multiple implant steps.

The device further includes an edge termination outside the active region of the device as defined by a field oxide . The edge termination includes a plurality of implanted regions having a conductivity type opposite the conductivity type of the drift layer .

Many different embodiments have been disclosed herein in connection with the above description and the drawings. It will be understood that it would be unduly repetitious and obfuscating to literally describe and illustrate every combination and subcombination of these embodiments. Accordingly all embodiments can be combined in any way and or combination and the present specification including the drawings shall be construed to constitute a complete written description of all combinations and subcombinations of the embodiments described herein and of the manner and process of making and using them and shall support claims to any such combination or subcombination.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the inventive concepts being set forth in the following claims.

