---

title: Virtual badge, device and method
abstract: A system, methods, and devices comprising a virtual badge are disclosed. The virtual badge can be displayed on an electronic device or on another linked or unlinked portable device. For use in both emergency and non-emergency scenarios, the virtual badge comprises images and data which can be scanned, and the capability to alternate colors and/or self-destruct on a pre-set schedule. The system, methods, and devices may use a self-destruct mechanism which renders the virtual badge unusable. Using plugin technologies, the system optionally can enable field collected photos and notes on customizable forms to be mapped, tracked, and time/date stamped, including in a 100% disconnected environment. A modifiable virtual badge can aid in credentialing via certifications and qualifications, inventory, accountability, organization, and efficiency. The system, methods, and devices are designed to aid in access control, and other activities, such as data collection, inventory, accountability, payment gateways, and site management.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002944&OS=09002944&RS=09002944
owner: Pathfinders International, LLC
number: 09002944
owner_city: West Palm Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140505
---
In accordance with 37 C.F.R 1.76 a claim of priority is included in an Application Data Sheet filed concurrently herewith. Accordingly the present is a continuation in part to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 661 555 filed on Oct. 26 2012 entitled VIRTUAL BADGE DEVICE AND METHOD which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 709 844 filed on Oct. 4 2012 entitled VIRTUAL BADGE DEVICE AND METHOD and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 618 filed Jun. 28 2012 entitled GPS PATHFINDER CELL PHONE AND METHOD which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 524 724 filed Jun. 15 2012 entitled GPS PATHFINDER CELL PHONE AND METHOD which is a continuation in part of application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 296 874 filed Nov. 15 2011 entitled GPS PATHFINDER CELL PHONE AND METHOD which is a continuation in part of application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 410 003 filed Mar. 24 2009 entitled GPS PATHFINDER CELL PHONE AND METHOD now U.S. Pat. No. 8 154 440 issued Apr. 10 2012 which is a continuation in part of application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 696 532 filed Apr. 4 2007 entitled GPS PATHFINDER METHOD AND DEVICE and now abandoned. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 757 320 filed Feb. 1 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 671 143 issued Mar. 11 2014. The contents of each of the above referenced applications or patents are herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to electronic identification used in normal day to day functions and for disaster response and recovery systems and more particularly to systems methods and or devices which provide for virtual badge identification on an electronic mobile device and methods of using the systems methods and or devices for operations.

The present invention is based in part on technology disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 154 440 440 patent . The 440 patent describes a mobile software system for a variety of operations before during and after a disaster. The 440 patent further disclosed systems that provided a mechanism which can be used in a variety of emergency management operations. One area not addressed was the need for rapid massive registration credentialing and badge identification of large numbers of personnel especially following a disaster. Responders residents and business owners plus their employees all need access to restricted areas. The National Response Framework even mandates such badging yet no viable fast simple inexpensive and high capacity system is available. Up until now plastic badges or temporary paper badges have been the norm. The cost of badge supplies printers labor on site power and wasted time preparing such items in the chaotic times following a disaster are replaced and or augmented by the present systems methods and device. With the new virtual badging system described herein having web based registration from areas remote from the restricted area as well as a mobile device based virtual badge the present invention provides more rapid and efficient mass implementation of identification mechanisms for multiple uses including but not limited to law enforcement and security purposes. Combining background check options and the features of the prior claims allows for more widespread uses in which the data can ultimately be used in either separate private networks wider shared cloud based data systems or can be merged and or accessed at times of emergencies or disasters with public data systems for life safety and security purposes.

The present invention further describes a workflow management system designed to badge and also monitor and track mobile users if desired. By providing administrators with the ability to send alerts and tasks to their badge users as well as allowing users to send notes forms photos and events to each other and or a central server the virtual badge system in accordance with the present invention can be used to efficiently manage personnel. While the present invention finds countless uses in the disaster and emergency management arenas other non emergency applications are contemplated and described herein.

The present invention uses the electronic identification as part of a system that can be configured to function in a variety of emergency and non emergency operations preferably using smart electronic devices. The present invention can be adapted to merge the dumb phones with smart phones and or other mobile smart electronic devices into a system designed to not only work on both types of phones but also allow for computers and or smart phones to map and track mixed teams of virtual badge users. The virtual badge electronic identification system and devices are further designed to work regardless of the condition of the local power cell and Internet infrastructure a needed requirement in the emergency management field.

Electronic identification devices are known in the art. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 207 480 is described as disclosing a system for providing certified digital photos as a form of photo identification. The patent describes an m wallet transaction in which a vendor requests photo identification from the user of a mobile station such as a mobile telephone or smart card. In response to the request the mobile station is described as displaying a digital image of an authorized user of the mobile station. The mobile station is also described as displaying a trust certification indicator to indicate to the vendor that the image is authentic. The mobile station is also described as being capable of retrieving the image of the authorized user together with a trust certification from a service provider.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 548 914 is described as a method and system for a photo identification payment card transaction verification system for the use with a payment card interchange network. The system is described as being programmable to receive a photo of a card holder assign a unique photo identifier to the photo and to receive payment card transaction information for a payment cardholder from an interchange network. The interchange network is described as being capable of processing payment card transactions between a merchant and a cardholder.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0090038 is described as disclosing a method for forwarding by a mobile device a request for identification information associated with a user of the mobile device. The method is described as including receiving from an identification provider the identification information and displaying by the mobile device at least some of the identification information.

What is needed in the art however is an improved electronic identification system that uses a virtual badging system which acts as an identification mechanism and can perform functional operations both in emergency and non emergency scenarios. Such a must be able to function in a 100 disconnected environment and include a cell phone and or a simple inexpensive lightweight reusable electronic device capable of either scanning and or storing data images and or photos and being linked to a smart electronic device or dumb phone to assist in entry or re entry into restricted areas while providing unique field monitoring solutions to managers in any type of technology connected or disconnected environments.

The present invention relates to methods systems and or devices which utilize a virtual badge system for use in various stages of operations including emergency or emergent circumstances. Due to the customizable nature of the software described herein the present invention is designed for use in non disaster purposes as well. Such non disaster uses or operational functions include but are not limited to use with gated community access restricted access areas school access visitor management payment system gateways identification verification for ticketing guest accountability site safety systems business management applications rapid marketing data collection user to user and user to business social networking and planned or spontaneous volunteer management. By providing a system that can be used on a daily basis should there be a need for the method system or device in an emergency situation users will have a certain amount of familiarity thereby eliminating the requirement of responders and citizens attempting to learn a new system in the chaos immediately following a disaster or chaotic emergency situation.

A virtual badge which can be tracked if desired can contain customizable data photos and or images which are scannable for various applications. The virtual badge is displayed on an electronic device such as a smart cell phone and replicates what a typical plastic badge can display. The virtual badge system can also incorporate the capability to send a wireless electronic message to a local printer. The printer prints out a replication of the virtual badge including its scannable images or other identifiable information to a non electronic medium such as paper or a temporary sticker badge which then can be attached to a user s clothing. Random check points could scan this paper rendition of the virtual badge providing possible tracking enhancement of visitors to a facility.

This system also can incorporate the Internet and a cell system or alternatively can be used by linking to a local Wi Fi or other wireless network area if so programmed. A separate device is presented which is either synced with a cell phone with a virtual badge or acts as an independent stand alone device. The stand alone device can provide a cost effective alternative to using expensive smart devices so that a user may hang it around his her neck with a lanyard and not be required to use a smart device. It is designed so any passerby can readily identify the user and or a check point guard can readily observe and or scan the device to verify the user s identity. The virtual badge displayed on a cell phone and or the device can be pre programmed to change colors or designs as well as automatically be pre programmed to self destruct the images photos and or data for security reasons pursuant to an administrator s specifications. Similarly an administrator could choose to send a non scheduled self destruct message to the device and immediately render the virtual badge useless. Operating as a self destruct mechanism an overriding display of wording like Expired across a virtual badge would render a badge useless. For additional security and by using GPS the virtual badge can be displayed on a map on the user s electronic device a group leader s electronic device a web based administrator s computer and or a base server. Further for more efficient management purposes a group leader s device can be authorized to display a map which map reveals the locations of a designated group of virtual badge users. The entire new system can be linked into existing software systems using traditional paper badging systems to augment them.

The virtual badge system is unique in that it can allow a badge applicant to submit a remote registration request through a web based portal where an agency or a business entity such as a Fusion Center or local Sheriff s office can review and approve the request. After authenticating a request soliciting a payment if desired creating a unique number or other identifier and performing a background check if desired the agency then could send out a web link to the applicant via an email text SMS or some other electronic means which contains a link to an App download store and the applicant s unique login credentials where the virtual badge application can be downloaded logged in and then could be displayed either on the phone screen and or on to a separate device. Using this method the applicant is not required to be in the physical presence of the reviewing agency s personnel who normally then would have to print out a plastic or paper badge. This badge is created in a virtual world allowing for approving and sending out virtual badges across the country or the world immediately and then allowing for tracking those virtual badges using still active satellite and or cell service if desired as they are inbound to a location.

Upon activation of the virtual badge scanning the virtual badge in if the GPS enabled mobile device running the virtual badge application is still linked via cell towers or other communication networks such as the Internet the virtual badge can be mapped and tracked live. Alternatives for scanning in a device could be done by the user or by a supervisor with a virtual badge team loaded within his her device or by having a supervisor s virtual badge scan an image on the user s device thereby activating the tracking device if desired. GPS tracking could be mandatory without an option for the user to turn it off or alternatively allow the user to stop being tracked dependent on the administrator s settings. The virtual badge also could be designed to be tracked in a local area network using wireless systems such as but not limited to RFID radio frequency identification NFC near field communication or other chip with an added linked device on a user s lanyard if desired. For possible military uses where budget constraints are not as limited live time monitoring using two way satellite communication allows for even more enhancements.

The virtual badge could be created using a laptop computer running the virtual badge application linked to an electronic display device such as cell phones in an area with no cell or Internet service at all. In the 100 disconnected environment such as a system not having any cell tower functioning or within a hardened or dense structure where cell service is not available the virtual badge could be sent from a laptop server to cell phones and or the devices using wireless or hard wired technologies as best fits the situation. In this scenario a welcome station could create and send the virtual badge to the guest standing at the station without any prior registration or the need for any cell service. Finally and most importantly this virtual badge can be used and mapped and tracked in a 100 disconnected environment following a disaster or in any remote area where cell service is very limited or does not exist. In such cases any data relating to location movement or direction of travel can be stored within the device. The stored data can be retrieved and analyzed to provide a picture of where and or when the badge traveled within an area.

The separate independent electronic device described above could display a series of customizable data photos changing background colors and or images which originate from the user s own synced or linked cell phone or other electronic device or alternatively from a central network administrator using the virtual badge software. This data photos and or images are designed to be viewed and or scanned and various settings on the device allow for flexibility for settings to both accommodate battery life as well as changes in views for the user. The device also can be used to track the device holder via technology described herein or additionally by making use of tracking technology such as but not limited to RFID or NFC technology. The device expands the capability of the system while widening the scope of the invention to include mapping tracking and or historical uses of the device and its holder if desired. Because of its design and the ability to erase its memory the device can be re used multiple times for many different users unlike present plastic or paper badges.

The present invention can further allow for tracking and monitoring the use of the virtual badge via other means. Through a scanning device which could include a check point s use of a smart phone with this system which has its own virtual badge scanning software or through simply passing by an RFID or NFC reader the system can log the location time and date of that virtual badge user passing that check point. As an example in a 100 disconnected environment with a cached memory of approved virtual badge data stored within the smart phone of a guard at a check point the guard could verify the virtual badge holder by scanning the guard s phone s camera over the virtual badge holder s optical machine readable representations of data as part of the displayed image of the badge such as linear QR or bar code image thus retrieving from his her smart phone s local virtual badge database memory a photo and personally identifiable information of the virtual badge user to compare with the person in front of the check point s guard. If the virtual badge has sent its data to a temporary paper badge the information on the paper badge can be scanned as well. This allows for user verification and or user tracking in a facility utilizing the same methods. The new system further can allow a supervisor to visualize on a displayed map on his her mobile or electronic device where all the virtual badges in a designated group currently are located.

The administrator or designee likewise could use the virtual badge data to facilitate seamlessly organizing crews according to the Incident Command System ICS or any other business structure. The system also can add or change the data stored in the virtual badge at any time through administrative procedures like scanning a user s driver s license which may contain additional data to store in the virtual badge. The system can analyze and monitor the use of the virtual badge given the historical data provided by various ingresses and egresses past check points tied to the system including in a 100 disconnected environment. Alternatively the system can be linked to other systems for further analysis or integration on a more broad monitoring system via an Application Programming Interface API link into another system.

The software used in the present system methods or devices is designed to permit the device to automatically or manually download the information stored as data to a laptop server or other device which functions as a server including datacenter based servers cloud servers with the virtual badge administrative system within that server when the cell phone and or device is within BLUETOOTH cellular or other wireless service range of the server. In the situation where there is no cell service a cell phone and or device can communicate to the laptop server without the use of cell towers or the Internet which in a totally or partially disconnected environment is the setting frequently confronting users. This system relies upon software designs which can incorporate Unix Linux Windows Java and other common technologies programmed into this application to allow the cell phones and or devices to optimize their effectiveness as well as cell phone operating systems included but not limited to Apple s iOS and variants Google s Android and variants RIM s BLACKBERRY OS and Windows Mobile OS.

As an illustrative example a method of identifying an individual using an electronic identification system using a virtual badge may comprise the steps of establishing a customizable set of data to be included in an electronic identification system database for identifying one or more individuals from a user group using a virtual badge identifying at least one individual that requires electronic identification using said virtual badge providing an electronic profile for said individual creating a virtual badge based on said electronic profile said virtual badge having information images or combinations thereof which identify said individual providing each said individual access to said virtual badge and downloading said user s virtual badge to a first display device and displaying said virtual badge on a first display device.

The virtual badge can be adapted to incorporate technologies to minimize or remove counterfeiting. For example the virtual badge may include a digital chip having a user s information which is designed to generate a unique ID pin code every time it is used. Additionally the virtual badge can also be used to verify personal identity when utilizing other applications on a user s first display device by integrating into third party applications. This includes but is not limited to Apple s Passbook ticketing information payment authorization and gift or reward card usage. The method may further include mapping tracking or combinations thereof said virtual badge downloaded or displayed on said first display device. The first display device may further be linked to a second display device so that virtual badge image displayed on said first display device is displayed on a second display device.

In an alternative embodiment the method of identifying an individual using an electronic identification system utilizing a virtual badge may comprise establishing an administrative entity for administering an electronic identification system using a virtual badge identifying at least one user group to be registered with said administrative agency said user group having at least one individual member requiring the use of said virtual badge said administrative entity establishing a customizable set of data to be included in an electronic identification system database for identifying one or more individuals from a user group using a virtual badge each said individual member registering with said administrative entity said registration including providing information which identifies said individual creating said virtual badge for each said individual of said user group said virtual badge having one or more identifying indicia unique to each said individual storing said virtual badge on a server administered by said administrative agency providing each said individual of said user group access to said virtual badge and displaying said virtual badge on a first electronic display unit. The method may further include mapping tracking or combinations thereof said virtual badge downloaded or displayed on said first display device. The first display device may further be linked to a second display device so that virtual badge image displayed on said first display device will be displayed to a second display device. The method may also include the step of generating a unique identifying pin code. The unique pin code may be generated each time of use or at other predetermined times for heightened security from hackers.

In another alternative embodiment the method of providing a virtual identification badge to an individual for providing access to a predetermined area may comprise establishing an administrative entity for administering an electronic identification system using a virtual badge for access to a predetermined area said administrative entity registering and issuing said virtual badge to an individual authorized to receive said virtual badge providing an individual to be registered with said administrative agency establishing a database having identifying information related to said individual said data stored on a remote server controlled by said administrative entity creating a virtual badge for said individual said virtual badge having one or more identifying indicia unique to each said individual one or more information identifying said administrative agency or combinations thereof providing said individual with electronic access to said virtual badge displaying said virtual badge on a first display unit and providing an on site administrator for verifying the contents displayed on said virtual badge. The method may further include mapping tracking or combinations thereof said virtual badge displayed on said first display device prior to reaching the predetermined area while within the predetermined area or after exiting the predetermined area. The first display device may further be linked to a second display device so that virtual badge image displayed on said first display device will be displayed to a second display device.

In another alternative embodiment the method of providing a virtual identification badge to an individual for providing access to a predetermined area may comprise establishing an administrative entity for administering an electronic identification system using a virtual badge for access to a predetermined area said administrative entity registering and issuing said virtual badge to an individual authorized to receive said virtual badge providing an individual to be registered with said administrative agency establishing a database having identifying information related to said individual said data stored on a remote server controlled by said administrative entity creating a virtual badge for said individual creating a mirrored temporary paper badge based on the virtual badge said virtual badge having one or more identifying indicia unique to each said individual one or more information identifying said administrative agency or combinations thereof providing said individual with electronic access to said virtual badge displaying said virtual badge on a first display unit displaying the temporary paper rendition of said virtual badge displaying the temporary badge or combinations thereof and providing an on site administrator for verifying the contents displayed on said virtual badge temporary paper rendition of said virtual badge or combinations thereof. The method may further include mapping tracking or combinations thereof said virtual badge displayed on said first display device prior to reaching the predetermined area while within the predetermined area or after exiting the predetermined area. The first display device may further be linked to a second display device so that virtual badge image displayed on said first display device will be displayed to a second display device.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a system for controlling access to an area and monitoring movement within the area comprising a first electronic device having a screen for displaying images a processor operable to execute instructions and a data storage medium for storing instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to display an electronic profile for an individual requiring electronic identification said electronic profile established by an administrative entity which establishes a customizable set of data to be included in an electronic identification system database for identifying one or more said individuals said data forming a virtual badge to identify said individual and to execute a self destruct mechanism associated with said virtual badge which renders said virtual badge unusable after a prescribed time period or upon command from said administrative entity.

In another embodiment the present invention provides one or more non transitory computer readable medium having computer readable instructions embodied thereon wherein when executed by at least one processor the computer executable instructions cause least one processor to at least display an electronic profile for an individual requiring electronic identification said electronic profile established by an administrative entity which establishes a customizable set of data to be included in an electronic identification system database for identifying one or more said individuals said data forming a virtual badge to identify said individual and execute a self destruct mechanism associated with said virtual badge which renders said virtual badge unusable after a prescribed time period or upon command from said administrative entity. As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium includes all computer readable media with the exception of a transitory propagating signal.

In addition to the system and method of generating a virtual badge for electronic identification the virtual badge can be used to perform a variety of functional commercial and non commercial operations. In one embodiment the present invention provides for creating maintaining and managing moving inventories for further reference. As an example a virtual badge user at a gated facility could use the virtual badge scanner to scan a bar code or other identifying system mounted on a piece of equipment as it enters or leaves the gated area. Using the built in form system the virtual badge user also could enter data and or take a geocoded time date stamped photo of the resource to further document the resource s movements and condition. On the virtual badge sending such data collection to the central system accountability and documentation is created to more efficiently track and manage resources even in a 100 disconnected environment.

In another embodiment the present invention provides for allowing users or an administrator in non disaster purposes the ability to hide or set time and or day parameters for tracking users location and information submitted from the database the administrator other discrete users groups businesses organizations or affiliations subject to an administrator s approval.

In another embodiment the present invention can be configured to provide workforce and business management tools which can automatically upload data stored on the device to an internet based server or a laptop server with the back end software. All data that is submitted in the field may be accessed by authorized administrative users as soon as it is available on the server near instantaneously when the devices and server are connected to a wireless network or after the data has been uploaded via BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology in a disconnected environment. Given the sensitivity of the data additional encryption and security levels can be set by an administrator.

In another embodiment the present invention can be configured to allow a user to unlock a door with NFC or other evolving technologies with either a time or date restricted functionality tied to such access. For example the virtual badge with its self destruct capability might replace a swipe card for regular access or be used by a hotel visitor for room access for a set time period. A user could bypass the wait for a check in line at a hotel if properly pre registered remotely and using Wi Fi network NFC and or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology to check in to the hotel and for instance download the local Internet access password for a hotel gain access to a designated room number and charge drinks or meals to a virtual badge all without local staff intervention for increased virtual badge efficiency uses. In this example a required hotel check out time could be automatically pre programmed into the virtual badge barring access before or after a certain time of day.

In another embodiment the present invention can be configured to perform background checks as part of the registration process. For example a school facility may desire visitors to be checked through national sexual predator systems prior to accessing the school. The system can be programmed to automatically reject access to a remote or on site application for a virtual badge with various pre set levels of questionable background issues to prevent access to a virtual badge from a potential user which method maintains a potential user s privacy rights by simply denying access to a virtual badge for any specific background issues while not relaying the reasons for said denial to any administrator.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used in the health care industry. For example the device can be used to collect health care data. In this embodiment a doctor could prescribe a virtual badge in an electronic device in which said virtual badge is loaded with a prescription protocol for a homebound patient for example with a specific physical therapy and medication regimen. In this embodiment the virtual badge could be sent a message over a cell network for example to signal a homebound patient that it was time to take a specific medicine. The virtual badge user could interact with the mobile electronic device with the virtual badge software to notify the prescribing doctor a verification notice via the system that the medication had been taken or the therapy had been completed. Patient accountability is thus another benefit of this system.

The present invention could be used to collect monitoring data from a homebound patient. As an example the patient s vital signs might be monitored by a separate sensor hardware which hardware could transmit the data to the virtual badge via wireless networks described above which data then could be sent via the system to the doctor s office. With sensory ranges pre set by the doctor email PUSH notification or alarm alerts could be automatically sent to the doctor or other agent if desired such as a 911 service should certain levels be detected by the sensors. Using a PUSH notification within the virtual badge system an administrator likewise could send a message to the homebound patient for any variety of reasons.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used to prevent fraud such as involving fraudulent claims from a Medicare recipient or medical provider. Under this scenario a home health care worker is prescribed for multiple visits to a patient a certain number of times per week. Using a virtual badge the worker can be monitored and or tracked via GPS technologies to verify performance of his her duties. The worker also could for example scan the user s virtual badge with the patient s own virtual badge again providing an additional authentication of a prescribed visit actually having occurred. Using the virtual badge forms the home health aid could use a check list or drop down menu of various services provided including taking any photos as needed all of which data is time date stamped and geocoded by the system to validate the services actually were provided. Besides documentation and validation via the system a more rapid reimbursement system could be tied to the successful validation of duties via a virtual badge verification to the reimbursing agency that the services had been performed thereby streamlining billing procedures to speed up payment processes using a paperless method built around this system via API links and the virtual badge payment processing gateways described previously.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used to accommodate individuals with special needs such as persons with disabilities. For example the virtual badge could receive a message to alert a virtual badge user using for example the push technology. In addition to the device s display of the message the system also could be programmed to trigger a flashing light function and or an audible tone function to alert the hearing or visually impaired user of the need to respond to a virtual badge signal or message.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used for tracking within a large facility which does not have access to satellite or cell tower GPS systems. New wireless technology inventions will provide other alternative ways of more accurately tracking virtual badge users. For example in an active shooter scenario a facility may have thousands of employees and dozens of guests using virtual badges. With security personnel having instant access to the location of all persons within the facility including being able to identify which floor or room number those users were at any point in time safety messages via the system s PUSH notification system evacuation procedures and mass check out systems can instantly be communicated to any group or all virtual badge users in a given location.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used to provide a system and a method to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology in an extremely limited connectivity environment. For example if cell service is very poor in an area certain system features are invented to deal effectively with such situations. One programmed solution takes a smart phone s normal 8 16 megapixel photos and auto compresses a virtual badge s photo s to under 50 kilobytes to facilitate transmission over limited cell networks. Alternatively the smart phone is programmed to auto store in a queue visible to the user any data not yet transmitted via any network as described above. Once connectivity is achieved to a cell system or a laptop with the virtual badge system a manual or auto download could occur transferring all of the data from the mobile device to the backend system.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology in an extremely limited or no connectivity environment so as to preserve the battery life of the electronic device while it is using a virtual badge. For example one proprietary solution in a virtual badge involves takes a smart phone which commonly will trigger an automatic searching for network mechanism within the phone when in areas of low cell connectivity. This system will disable this function to preserve the battery life and automatically cache the GPS and field form collected data within the device until such time as the data can be successfully transmitted over wireless technologies. Another proprietary battery saving feature of a virtual badge system allows an administrator to set the ping rate settings between the mobile electronic device server of the virtual badge system or alternatively the mobile electronic device and a satellite based GPS system so that the accuracy of the tracking mechanisms within the device can be altered with greater accuracy needing more frequent pings or connections to and from the GPS system and or virtual badge server s thereby using more battery life quicker or alternatively lowering the ping rates reducing the tracking accuracy while increasing the battery life of the device . A third custom programmed feature focused on battery life of the device automatically programs the tracking to go to sleep if the device has not moved within a pre set and configurable radius. Again the system is designed for an administrator to pre set a virtual badge user s settings with GPS and server ping rates being the items that affect battery life the most.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology to display to an administrator the status of a user s virtual badge. For example as a user s device loses battery strength an icon on a map representing the virtual badge user s location can be programmed to automatically change to a customizable color at a certain low level of battery life. The same icon is programmed to turn another color on the display map red in this example when the last recorded GPS location of the device was transmitted. With this capability an administrator is provided knowledge ahead of time of the normal loss of a signal due to battery life as the color displayed on the map might change from green to yellow to red or alternatively to be informed of the last known location of a device before it lost connectivity either by loss of battery life or if for instance the user turned the device off or deleted the mobile application thereby disabling the system.

In another embodiment the present invention can be used to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology to alert an administrator of certain types of virtual badge user events. For example if a virtual badge user s device loses signal or battery life completely an automated alert can be sent to administrators using the virtual badge system. Another example of these alert messages is if an administrator selects a virtual badge form template to be flagged any time a virtual badge user submits one of these form templates an alert message may be sent. These alert messages can be in the form of email alerts SMS texts and PUSH notifications. Such alerts are tied to the virtual badge reporting modules which can display statistics about various important events.

In another embodiment the present invention can be configured to use voice communication to utilize the virtual badge software system. This voice communication system would use existing voice communication commands that are already in the mobile electronic display device s operating system such as the Google Android or iOS platforms. The user would then be able to optionally control the application via voice commands an example of which would be submitting Forms by voice activation for hands free use of the application. When executed verbally by a user other functions such as filling in forms on the device via voice communication can occur.

In another embodiment the present invention can be configured to use a hands free wearable computer with an optical head mounted display wirelessly linked for the purpose of using hands free voice commands to operate one or more applications. Head Up Display HUD devices such as the Google Glass or similar hardware for the purpose of displaying relevant app information on the HUD screen such as overlaid augmented reality views of assessments and submitted information can be utilized as part of the system. The hands free HUD device would also be linked to the virtual badge application via BLUETOOTH for the purpose of using hands free voice commands to operate the application such as submitting Forms viewing assessments or receiving PUSH notifications as previously described.

Accordingly it is an objective of the present invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification.

It is an objective of the present invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification using electronic devices.

It is an objective of the present invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification using mobile electronic devices.

It is a further objective of the present invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to provide a cell phone and or a device which can indicate the locations of other similar devices without input from the operators of the other devices. Real time tracking can thus be achieved as well.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to provide a series of various methods to apply for enroll create authorize manage monitor authenticate credential and mass distribute virtual badges to mobile users via methods described herein.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to provide electronic devices which can communicate with each other and also with a base station.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge in which data stored on an electronic device can be transferred to independent electronic devices or between one or more electronic devices and a base station.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to provide a functional and efficient database to serve as the repository for all information gathered in the field via an electronic device.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification using a virtual badge to provide the means for an authorized and affiliated governmental or private entity to control a disaster response operation using integrated ICS systems and forms via an electronic device which interfaces with a web based or laptop version of the virtual badge software to allow for administrative activities in or out of a disconnected environment in a disaster.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to allow users to create discrete groups businesses organizations and affiliations via an electronic device for the purpose of business management and user privacy.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to provide organization tools via an electronic device such that responders and users in the field can customize the organization of their workers and users into groups as desired by an administrator or team leader.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge having inventory management related tools.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system method and device for electronic identification to provide a mobile credit card payment system which includes a credit card payment gateway and identification verification for mobile users for the purpose of processing payment and or receiving credits rewards gifts and achievements via an electronic first display device for virtual badge jobs or purchases completed in the field.

It is a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification configured to use voice communication.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification which uses a hands free wearable computer with an optical head mounted display.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification which uses a hands free wearable computer with an optical head mounted display wirelessly linked for the purpose of using hands free voice commands to operate one or more applications.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to provide privacy controls if pre set as available to a user by an administrator.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to provide the user with tools for integration with a client s existing software via software APIs such that the data collected via the software system may be exported and integrated for additional uses reporting analysis or other business purposes.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system and a method to display a virtual badge on a cell phone equipped in order to provide sufficient mass produced and inexpensive identification to allow monitored access to restricted areas or planned events.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system and a method to sync a mobile electronic device running virtual badge software with a separate mobile electronic device to display a virtual badge.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system and a method to sync a virtual badge from a web based or laptop server with the virtual badge software to a separate mobile electronic device capable of displaying a virtual badge using a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology without a cell phone.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge configured to print a hardcopy of the virtual badge on to a paper or plastic badge.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge configured for payment to public and private sector entities.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a variety of security features such as a displayed color of the day QR or bar code photo or other images levels of encryption unique pin codes all of which can be incorporated into a design and may be automated to change so as to minimize the threat of counterfeiting virtual badges.

It is a further objective of the invention to provide a system that allows administrators to make use of new mobile technologies to be able to more easily allow users with this system to scan virtual badges with their own virtual badge devices rather than having to use current separate scanning only devices built solely to scan bar codes badges or identification cards. As an example this objective allows a virtual badge smart phone supervisor to scan another virtual badge smart phone user into a location without the need for any other hardware as is typically used for access control today.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide workforce and business management tools via an electronic device which can automatically upload data stored on the device to an internet based server or a laptop server which has the back end software.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge configured to act as a ticket validation system whereby the tickets are pre purchased tickets and the systems methods and device are used to authenticate the user s right of access to an area.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge configured to act as a credential system to store a user s rank certifications skill level qualifications licensures job titles background check statuses and or education levels.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge which is used to determine clearance levels for higher level restricted access areas and or for monitoring for a user checking out certain supplies.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to allow the ability for a virtual badge user to unlock a door with NFC or other evolving technologies with either a time and or date restricted functionality tied to such access.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to automatically perform background checks as part of the registration process.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge to automatically perform background checks as part of the registration process and can be programmed to automatically reject access to a virtual badge with various pre set levels of questionable background issues from a potential user.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to collect insurance data for claims authentication following either a personal or regional disaster. A virtual badge user could fill in an administrator prescribed form on the system take a picture and said data then could be automatically supplied for insurance claim verification.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to collect verification of repairs for insurance payouts for claims authentication and tracking management.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to collect health care data and or transmit health care notifications or alerts to a virtual badge user.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to aid in preventing fraud.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to accommodate a wide variety of persons with disabilities.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to allow an administrator to instantly share with public safety officials certain data of broad sets of homebound persons with a wide variety of special needs and or disabilities to ensure said persons are properly accounted and cared for in the event of an emergency or disaster such as a hurricane or earthquake.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to be able to use a virtual badge for tracking within a large facility which does not have access to satellite or cell tower GPS systems.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to be able to use a virtual badge to collect field based assessment data with photos images or field forms on the virtual badge system.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system methods and device for electronic identification with a virtual badge via the device to be able to have the user s virtual badge information wiped clean from the electronic device and thus allow the device to be reusable for another user creating a green reusable virtual badge device as opposed to typical plastic badges which only are good for one user and then must be discarded.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system and a method to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology in an extremely limited connectivity environment.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system and a method to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology in an extremely limited or no connectivity environment so as to aid in transmission and or preserve the battery life of the electronic device while it is using a virtual badge.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system and a method to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology to display the status and or location of a user s virtual badge to an administrator.

It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide a system and a method to ensure data integrity and transmission success for virtual badges via a sync through a Wi Fi network or Mesh Wi Fi network with BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology to alert an administrator of certain types of virtual badge user events.

Other objectives and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following descriptions taken in conjunction with any accompanying drawings wherein are set forth by way of illustration and example certain embodiments of this invention. Any drawings contained herein constitute a part of this specification and include exemplary embodiments of the present invention and illustrate various objects and features thereof.

While the present invention is a susceptible embodiment in various forms there is shown in the drawings and will hereinafter be described a presently preferred albeit not limiting embodiment with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered an exemplification of the present invention and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments illustrated.

The present invention creates a system comprising of backend software software adapted to provide necessary functionality for server on a web based cloud based or laptop server synchronized with a front end software such as software adapted to be used by a display device including an electronic display device capable of displaying images or text such as a cell phone or tablet computer to make the device function accordingly i.e. properly display the information as a virtual badge displayed on the electronic display device. The backend software system is designed for but is not limited to mapping tracking issuing authenticating validating background checking credentialing managing distributing and monitoring an individual and or designated group of virtual badge users as well as engaging the self destruct mechanism to render a virtual badge useless. The front end is designed to communicate with the backend software system and interact in such a way to create a workforce solution by allowing virtual badge users to input information and present a display device that shows a virtual badge. The system allows added plug in features i.e. software programs that provide additional functionality that can be added to or taken out of the primary software systems in place and include for example field forms with photos displayed on a map to maximize the capabilities of the virtual badge system. While various methods of communications and data transfer may be described such examples are for illustrative purposes only as the use of any land based communication systems or satellite based communication systems known to one of skill in the art can be utilized within the systems devices or methods as described herein.

To use their BLUETOOTH wireless and or GPS functions in a disconnected environment modifications to the software in the electronic display device such as a cell phone including smart phones or a computer tablet are made prior to their use in the operations via the new software. Once these modifications have been made they do not need to be changed except as the user goes into and out of a working cellular network or as the network is re established by repairs . These modifications can be made utilizing the virtual badge software and BLUETOOTH or other wireless communications from a base station or on the electronic device itself if the model has such capability. As another example a GPS cell phone can be used when modified and with additional programming and or modifications as well as newly developed cell phone hardware a host of other phones and other mobile electronic devices can utilize this system. Newer cell phone models may not require as extensive a modification but to work in the disconnected environment changes maybe required. To allow for monitoring of other dumb and smart phone users simultaneously within a group by a smart phone supervisor modifications designed within this system also are required for the front end user.

In the proposed system first an administrator which could be an agency a business a group and or simply a resident citizen hereinafter collectively referred to as an administrator would register on a web based portal to obtain access to the software described herein. In a disconnected environment alternative means described herein may be used. Validation such as a background check of this entity or person could occur at this stage. Upon receiving access to a new virtual badge account the administrator can then select from or create a menu of options or customize further selections if desired which options create a specified list of registry items required to secure a virtual badge. These items could include as wide or narrow a list as desired. Some examples would be an ID photo home address business address unique ID number driver s license number or a host of other options including credentialing for virtual badge users to be established by the administrator. Additionally if desired the software will allow the administrator to brand the front end such that the web or mobile device view can easily incorporate a logo or a group of logos to display affiliations as may be desired. Similarly the front end splash page is easy for an administrator to customize if so desired so that a unique identifier accompanies the software application distribution.

A payment may be included with various levels of approvals such as security clearances or alternatively volume based pricing established as further alternatives to the business methodology proposed. If this initial application were to a Sheriff s office such a fee could be split three ways between the Sheriff a local police department and the private administrator. Incentives to recapture costs for maintaining and sustaining the system are thus modeled in a true public private partnership.

In a next step users with mobile electronic devices preferably with GPS and BLUETOOTH and or other wireless technology can apply to the administrator for a virtual badge to be part of that grouping of virtual badges. Alternatively the administrator could elect to send requests to a designated group of front end users. Either using their mobile electronic device to apply via a web link or by registering online via the Internet each user then can supply the personal data as pre established by the administrator to be approved for a virtual badge. Following the submittal of the personal data the administrator can analyze the application or the system can auto analyze certain user criteria as set by an administrator including if desired outsourcing a background check of that user by a third party service. The administrator may choose different levels of checks for different users as well as may choose different badge types for different events. As a further optional step an additional payment can be made either by the administrator or by the user prior to the issuance of each virtual badge. Volume discounts supervisory virtual badges with scanning features and or differing clearance levels can lead to various pricing models. All of these processes can be automated in the back end system.

Upon approval by the administrator and payment option if chosen the cell phones and or devices are sent an email SMS message or other electronic communication via methods described herein with the appropriate link to download the front end software which also includes the virtual badge. This process could be obtained through commercially run stores such as an online Apple or Android store or directly from an approved client based location.

The virtual badge software can include any combination of the following options abilities and features which also may be added to and further customized by an administrator via plug ins including an administrator ghosting any particular selection so as to not offer certain options to some virtual badge users in a group dependent on various issues.

 Profile Surveys allows users to create and complete surveys of personal information which may include their additional certifications qualifications skill sets interests likes dislikes and preferences for matching logic purposes inherent in the design of the software.

 Employees List allows users to sort select and view other users they have affiliated with as well as control privacy settings and search for and add new users or groups.

 Routes allow users to view historical data that represents the breadcrumb trail particular users traveled based on a selected and customized time frame selected by the user. This breadcrumb trail shall consist of but not be limited to user device path represented by connecting symbols displayed on the map speed distance form submissions notes events and work orders submitted within the time frame selected.

 Main Menu allows users to perform various submission related functions in the software including but not limited to filling out forms with or without photos submitting a note creating an event completing profile surveys and marking a place on the map.

 Clock In Out allows users to clock in or out of their various affiliations meaning that a user is able to manage their privacy and submission settings for all affiliations the user belongs to. Clocking In represents enabling the authorized affiliation to view the user on the map and view submissions that are sent to this affiliation while Clocking Out represents disabling the authorized affiliation from viewing any user related information including but not limited to GPS location Data Submissions Location Information and Messaging.

 Log Out allows users to end their current session which turns off the client server connection and shuts down the application.

 Team List allows users to easily create groups teams and task forces to organize and manage their users. Such teams also allow for a virtual badge leader to form a team of other virtual badge holders who may not have electronic devices with the software system on them. The Team List also allows users to be tasked for functional purposes by allowing users to be assigned to Tasks Needs Work Orders Events Affiliations and potentially other uses. Users may be organized and assigned to tasks via a Drag and Drop interface. Users may be sorted based on their profiles skill sets FEMA Federal Emergency Management Agency ICS certifications or other classifications via Matching Logic .

 Forms Modern smart phones and mobile electronic devices can be programmed with this system to create a unit s custom forms. Forms also can be customized readily on the cloud or laptop based server or via administrative access at the base station and which optionally may integrate the text messaging or PUSH i.e. internet based communications where the request for a given transaction is initiated by a publisher or central server notifications features of cell phones to complete certain information on the forms such as name and address. These forms consist of several different types of template form fields which are preset data entry methods on electronic devices. These form fields may be customized to collect a wide range of information and the user may choose to assign branching logic or decision point logic in the forms. Comment sections can allow the user to enter any texted wording the mobile user desires. Alternatively the forms can employ dropdown menus or simple check lists for pre programmed answers that can be selected to standardize certain responses so as to increase the speed of entry of data by mobile users and to be able to be analyzed by the virtual badge system. Prior to saving the form the user can be asked if the form needs any final editing before being saved. As new mobile technologies are invented creating such custom virtual badge forms in the field will become part of this capability.

Using these methods enhances the capabilities of the system to do more robust back end data analysis. For example there can be a minor damage or major damage drop down option to select. When the form is submitted it is saved into the electronic device and into the server if the cellular network is functioning and the system automatically geocodes and time date stamps the information contained on that specific form. Submitted Forms may also have geocoded photos optionally attached to the information so a picture can provide reference to the form information. On the display of a form on the mobile and web based front end of the virtual badge software an icon can be assigned to display with varying colors on a map. Alternatively thumbnail photos or icons might be displayed on a map again with programmed highlighting around the photos or icons with varying colors. Said highlighting may indicate a priority of a need at that location or level of damage with the color groupings being sortable on the map to allow for quicker visual analysis. Prior to saving the form on the mobile side the user can be asked if the form needs any final editing before being saved.

 Matching Logic refers to complex software algorithms that classify users based on their responses to profile surveys allowing for users to be matched to appropriate Tasks Needs Work Orders Events Affiliations and potentially other uses because the users skill sets match with the services needed. Users may be classified based on customizable information Ex Profile surveys may classify based on functional skill sets qualifications and or certifications such as medical physical technology leadership etc. a corresponding Task Need Work Order or Event may be customized based on a need for specific skill sets. The appropriate users may then be matched to the appropriate Task Need Work Order Event or Affiliation. Likewise as a user completes more details of his her own profile and skill sets the user may be better matched with a group or organization that listed its own set of profiles into the system in its own search for like minded or like skilled users.

 Who Can See Me refers to an ability in the software that grants the user the ability to disallow other users from viewing or receiving GPS data submission data and any location information about the particular user ex User A turns off User B s ability to see User A on the Map as well as any of User A s information . Certain high security sites will have the ability to restrict a user from disabling this function.

 Friends refers to users that the end user has added to their application in terms of receiving tracking and electronic submission data. Users can be assigned Friend Codes which are unique identifiers that allow for user search to take place and for user created sub groups.

 Notifications allow users to view at a glance any status updates or pertinent information from selected users or an administrator and functions as a rudimentary news feed to the user displaying updated information about the user s affiliations coworkers friends and family. The Notifications list also displays PUSH notifications sent by the administrator to virtual badge users as a group or individually.

 Sync allows the user to sync the electronic device with the laptop server or cloud server by utilizing BLUETOOTH wireless technologies or cellular networks.

 Start Break allows the user to note a break time start and stop point to monitor his her work cycle during the operations.

 Message allows the electronic device user or base server to text message each other or other users via a canned preprogrammed or custom message. As a further example text messaging in a disaster environment can occur over partially destroyed cellular networks where voice communication has failed entirely.

 Setup allows the user to enter into their electronic device the phone number and company name or name of the agency for which they are working.

 Edit Profile allows the user to change or engage his her password PIN code unique identifier random ID number or user name.

 GPS allows the user to check the status of the GPS tracking unit and note any errors in communication of the GPS chip within the electronic device.

 Map Trail allows the user to randomly drop points on a map which option triggers a call to connect a line of such GPS points so as to display a distinct and measurable line on the back end displayed map. A Start and Stop dropdown can map the location and distance of a flooded roadway or of the length of boom deployed in an oil spill for a base unit to display to the administrator for actionable data.

 BLUETOOTH Sync allows the user to toggle between using just BLUETOOTH or just the wireless network depending on the circumstances.

 Diagnostics allows the user to view his her name phone number software application name version of the software application sync interval last sync time last upload time number of syncs sync errors and message counts collected by that user.

 About allows the user to view the name of the system the contact info and the version along with a copyright date.

 Tracking Schedule allows the administrator to enforce a GPS tracking schedule for affiliated users which either enables or disables the ability of affiliated user s virtual badges to GPS track. The Tracking Schedule can be adjusted in blocks of minutes across an entire 24 hour cycle. Thus to protect a user s privacy when off duty the device may be programmed for each virtual badge user to only track its history during an individual s work time and days.

 Realms or Scan Zones allows the administrator to create new areas to become checkpoints. By creating new Scan Zones users can be scanned by a virtual badge supervisor or fixed monitoring device and organized in a discrete reportable manner that keeps track of which users entered where and when they left. Scan Zones can be configured to NOT GPS track users that have been scanned in and can also be set to several different GPS tracking options which result in differing levels of accuracy per Scan Zone. These different GPS tracking options are controlled by the virtual badge administrator on the server side and can be customized for each different Scan Zone. For instance a large outdoor Scan Zone may not need to have the most accurate level of GPS tracking which will deplete battery life the quickest compared to an indoor building which may need the most accurate level of GPS tracking available.

 Print Badge allows the administrator or the user to print a paper version of a virtual badge either from the web based front end or the mobile based front end. A paper version of a virtual badge can be printed on sticky paper temporary paper or even a hard plastic badge. When a printed badge is scanned the scan location will be saved in the virtual badge database so locations can still be tracked even if the virtual badge users does not have their own mobile electronic device with GPS technology.

 Badge allows the user to view their virtual badge screen in the application which can display their name employer photo address phone number issuing agency credentials encrypted QR code and or additional other information.

 Scanner allows the administrator to activate a QR code scanner in the virtual badge application on the mobile electronic display device which enables the scanner user to scan another virtual badge user s encrypted QR code on their virtual badge. This act of scanning will either scan the user in or out thus optionally activating or deactivating GPS tracking on the device and will log the time date plus location of the scan activity. Colors of icons or virtual badges can be programmed to change to instantly display the status of a user on the administrator s map or on a supervisor s mobile map within the virtual badge software.

 Check In List allows the administrator to view the list of scanned in and checked in users to pre defined areas for easy identification that there may or may not be users that are still scanned in. As another option within the system a supervisor may view his team of virtual badge users on his mobile electronic device with the software on this list.

 Affiliations allows the user or administrator to view the list of affiliated organizations to the virtual badge account. This list could include sub companies primary badge issuing authorities and or local state and federal government entities.

 Help allows the user to view a pre determined list of tutorial slides that help them understand how to use the front end mobile application. The tutorial slides can be customized per an individual virtual badge account.

 Shutdown allows the user to shutdown the software again in certain circumstances an administrator may ghost out this option so a user cannot select the option .

Because the virtual badge is designed to be able to be mapped and tracked though GPS mapping is not a requirement of the virtual badge the data can be mapped out on a GPS mapping system which allows shape files to be created from the metadata for analysis. Further the latitude longitude information can be converted automatically within the system to the National Grid System which is used more by military responders. Likewise the system may be integrated with a wide variety of software mapping systems to ensure interoperability. Additionally the system can easily convert all of the collected data into Excel formatted spreadsheets which then are easily sorted using Excel technologies. The system also can be loaded with incoming data like a local tax assessor s property control maps with value and structural data or alternatively a large team of incoming users data can be loaded into the system to quickly create data system repositories again using software like Excel. Data can then be e mailed out in a readily workable solution and or can be converted into pie charts or other graphic images using for example Microsoft Access to present a snapshot picture of thousands of data inputs from a single or multiple days operations. Data can also be exported in a number of other formats. This back end part of the system is critical to make the tsunami of data easy to interpret for an administrator at any point in time.

Several features originally disclosed in the 440 patent and associated patent applications are currently described herein as any one or combinations thereof can be adapted to be a part of the system method or devices for an electronic identification system using a virtual badge. The various devices described or contemplated therein are illustrative examples of electronic display devices and methods of use which can be incorporated with the virtual badge.

The system methods and device for electronic identification in accordance with the present invention is described using a variety of electronic devices such as portable radio and or cell mobile cell phone smart phone or other smart device . While each device is described individually and associated with various functions and or features such functions and or features where applicable apply to any electronic device that can perform such functions features. Accordingly where a function is described for a particular embodiment of an electronic device such disclosure is not intended to be limited as such function or operation is applicable to other devices. Smart devices i.e. devices having computer functioning capabilities or properties and or capable of connecting to other devices and or can operate interactively and autonomously are preferred. Other devices can be used as well.

Referring to the electronic devices of the present invention will now be described. The electronic device can include a GPS receiver a GPS antenna a radio transceiver and an antenna all mounted in or on the GPS radio housing . The GPS receiver is electronically coupled to processor which in turn is electronically coupled to a memory . The memory can be built into the unit or installed as a separate removable module such as a flash memory stick or removable cartridge both not shown . The memory will normally contain the information necessary to operate the unit . The memory can also be used to store cartographic data electronic maps waypoints or locations which the unit s operator wants to save waypoints of the other units and other data which may be input into the unit . The cellular radio transceiver can be electronically coupled to the processor and a data modem . The data modem is utilized for transmitting and receiving data such as location data of the units.

The electronic maps in the system or stored on the removable memory devices can be readily displayed on the unit s display . Waypoints or areas traversed by the unit and stored in the memory can also be displayed on the display . In a preferred embodiment the display is a liquid crystal display LCD or light emitting diode display LED and is used to display other information in addition to navigational information. Any other type of display may also be used. The electronic device unit also can include a microphone a speaker and an input . The microphone and speaker are conventional and can be the same type of microphone and speaker used on a conventional FRS or GMRS radio or other electronic device.

Input in a preferred embodiment is an alphanumeric keypad such as the keypad used on telephones. This permits the entry of letters numbers and any other symbols found on keypads. Utilizing special software almost any number letter or symbol can be entered into the unit. This type of software is commonly available on cellular telephones. The input could also be a microphone a voice recognition input a touch screen a full keyboard similar to a BLACKBERRY or a menu driven display screen.

Another optional feature of the electronic device is a coding or encryption system. This system can employ any of the known coding or encryption schemes such as public or private key encryption methods. To employ this feature a group of electronic device users would enter an agreed upon code into their units prior to use. The code would then encrypt the transmitted location data and the receiving units would be able to decrypt this information. This prevents other unauthorized units from tracking the location of other units. This can be useful with groups such as law enforcement individuals.

After these modifications have been performed the team members go out into the designated search areas with their portable hand held electronic devices. At the beginning of every day a different route or search area is programmed into each unit as well as different forms or work orders. Preferably each team will have the same route or search area and different teams will have different routes or search areas. As the team members cover the routes or search areas they will encounter individuals or locations which require specific needs. Various services to respond to these needs in disasters have been designated as Emergency Support Functions ESF and categorized with possible uses as follows

ESF 1 Transportation Monitoring assets and equipment transportation safety movement restrictions and damage impact and assessment.

ESF 2 Communications Supplement existing systems without overwhelming capacity given a large scale operation.

ESF 3 Public Works and Engineering Locating infrastructure protection and emergency repair including roads bridges potable water sanitation utility grid emergency needs.

ESF 4 Firefighting First responder s monitoring and coordination for incoming out of region fire rescue services following any disaster.

ESF 5 Emergency Management Coordination and command resources monitor and assign assets and incident action planning.

ESF 6 Mass Care Housing and Human Services Follow up specialty resources as identified by first response teams with software waypoint system.

ESF 7 Resource Support Logistics location monitoring dispatch and distribution with emphasis on personnel from out of the area response teams within a given disaster zone.

ESF 8 Public Health and Medical Services Logistics location including pharmaceutical supplies and medical personnel management D Mort service teams and EMS personnel locations and assignments and precise locations.

ESF 9 Urban Search and Rescue Accurate resource management and detailed tracking and mapping for 100 coverage of the affected area without costly re searching areas previously covered.

ESF 10 Hazardous Materials Locate and identify the precise location of various threats. Monitor and mitigate the needs to suppress these threats and prioritize the threats.

ESF 11 Food Water and Natural Resources Locate sources for mass food and water resources by sector. Food safety and security locate historic properties protection and nutrition assistance.

ESF 13 Military Affairs Public safety and security incoming units can be universally tracked and monitored for efficient management including using military personnel for various other ESF function needs as required including traffic management operations.

ESF 14 Public Information Locates informational needs by street address and available resource allocation distributions.

ESF 15 Volunteers Volunteer management of incoming personnel and resources to be distributed across ESF functions as needed using locator source system.

ESF 17 Animal Protection Provide rescue protective care and feeding for animals using GPS locator assistance.

ESF 18 Business and Industry and Economic Stabilization Coordinate the response of State agencies in assisting local economic redevelopment via locator source system.

In addition to associating an ESF number with a waypoint wherein a particular need or service has been identified a 1 2 word descriptor can also be associated with the waypoint. This would help to clarify any ambiguities that a third party may have regarding a particular waypoint and emergency service that was associated with the waypoint. These descriptors could also be used to identify a particular need or resource that would be required at a particular area or site. Using pre scripted drop down menus or check lists on the electronic device can speed up this process and help with back end data analysis.

With reference to the operation of a typical search would proceed as follows. The base unit is uploaded with a map of the county or area surrounding the site of the disaster at . The individual team s electronic devices are uploaded with pre programmed controls and settings at . The individual team units are uploaded with a specific target search map for one day at . The base unit checks the polling tracking features of the units at if the devices have such a feature. The team leader checks the radio communications between his unit the team members units and the base station at . These radio communications can be in UHF VHF or 800 MHz frequencies as well as the IDEN network again if the devices have such a feature. The polling feature of the field units is set for 15 minute intervals at . After the teams reach the target or search area they switch their radios to operate on the FRS radio frequency at or rely upon the iDEN system. The team leader polls the team members on the FRS frequency or iDEN during the searching operations at . Whenever they reach a trouble spot the team members enter a waypoint ESF number and descriptor into their individual units at . The team leaders communicate with each other over the FRS frequency or iDEN while in the search area at . The team leader reports in to the base station over the UHF VHF or 800 MHz frequencies or iDEN when they are within range of the base station at . The team members upload the routes covered searched areas and waypoints from that day to the base station at . While the upload is preferably preformed wirelessly any other type of data transfer is acceptable. These routes or search areas may be color coded. The data uploaded into the base station unit is analyzed and the next day s search areas or route are determined at . The new search areas or routes are uploaded into the teams individual GPS radio units at and the procedure then returns to step . While the new routes are preferably uploaded wirelessly any other type of data transfer is acceptable. Any of the data described above may be alternatively transmitted and received over other wireless systems like with cell systems to cell phones or other wireless electronic devices and methods.

With reference to the procedure of a typical cleanup operation after a disaster is described. The base unit is uploaded with a map of the county or area surrounding the site of the disaster at . The subcontractors units are pre programmed with controls settings and color codes at . The subcontractors units are uploaded with a specific maps target areas forms and notes for the day at . The base unit checks the polling tracking feature of the individual units at prior to dispatching the subcontractors if the devices have such a feature. The safety officer checks the UHF VHF or 800 MHz frequency or iDEN communications feature of the individual units at which are GPS radio and or cell phone units again if the devices have such a feature. Once within the target area the subcontractors units are switched to operate on the FRS radio frequency or iDEN at . Each subcontractor uses the waypoint locator to indicate a pickup site and the specific needs at each site at . The subcontractors proceed to a temporary debris site within the target area. At this location the waypoint information which they have collected that day is downloaded to a unit at the temporary debris site via BLUETOOTH communications at . This information is subsequently sent to a base station through the best methodology available during that moment in time included but not limited to wireless or cellular data transfer as well as BLUETOOTH technology. The subcontractor continues to direct the subcontractor units through the target area via FRS radio or IDEN at . At the end of the day the subcontractor units return to the base station and automatically download their tracking and waypoint information to a base station unit via BLUETOOTH communications at . The data is analyzed and new maps target areas forms and notes are prepared for the next day s operation at and the procedure then returns to step . Any of this data described above may be alternatively transmitted and received over other wireless systems like with cell systems to cell phones or other electronic devices and methods.

With reference to the operation of a typical insurance company s adjuster s visit to a disaster area is described. The base station unit is uploaded with a map of the county or area surrounding the site of the disaster at . The individual insurance adjusters electronic devices are uploaded with pre programmed controls settings and color codes at . The team leaders assign the insurance adjusters a target area and the adjusters electronic devices are uploaded with the specific target areas to be covered that day at . The base station unit checks the polling tracking feature of the adjusters units at prior to dispatching the adjusters. The safety officer checks the UHF VHF or 800 MHz frequency radio or iDEN communications between the electronic devices at . After the insurance adjusters have entered the target area they switch their radios to operate on the FRS radio frequencies or iDEN at . Each insurance adjuster uses the waypoint locater feature of their electronic devices to locate each policyholder s property address and confirm the actual visit to the site at . The adjuster can then make notes regarding damages to the property in their own computers or other devices. The insurance adjusters return to the base station and the information contained in their units is uploaded into the base station unit via BLUETOOTH communications at . The data is analyzed and the following day s target areas are determined by the insurance coordinator. New maps and target areas are prepared for the following day at and the procedure then returns to step . Any of this data described above may be alternatively transmitted and received over other wireless systems like with cell systems to cell phones or other electronic devices and methods.

In addition to the users listed above this system can be employed by any and all members of a first responder services such as Homeland Security the military the National Guard Hazardous Material teams non governmental responders volunteer groups long term recovery organizations public works department personnel private sector responders all other ESF personnel and the Emergency Management Assistance Compact EMAC . These individuals and associations will normally use the present invention to assist in the recovery assistance and cleanup after natural disasters such as hurricanes tornadoes floods and snow storms. However the present invention can be used for any situation wherein a number of people require assistance like fires power blackouts etc. or just as a networking system.

A portable cell phone preferably equipped with GPS and GPS functions capabilities as well as with wireless technology such as BLUETOOTH is illustrated in . A plurality of other similar cell phones A G communicate with each other utilizing a communications network such as cell towers as illustrated in . The cell phones with GPS A G determine their various locations utilizing any variety of GPS methods available and can then transmit these locations to the other units over a network if it is functioning. If the cellular network is not functioning the center of the communications network shown on as becomes a server and or laptop server instead of the cell tower system being the communications network. Either way when the units are within range of a network all the units A G can be determined and monitored by any one of the units. The plurality of cell phones is thus able to communicate with each other. Alternatively they can also communicate with a base station. This feature enables the plurality of users of the cell phones to continue to perform their tasks even when they cannot establish communication with a cell phone network via a cell transmission tower. In areas which have recently been devastated by natural disasters such as hurricanes cell phone towers have been destroyed. The system of the present invention enables first responders and other personnel to communicate with each other and with a base station or headquarters when the only form of communication is the cell phones the first responders or other personnel are equipped with. The communications between the cell phones are both voice and data. The system of the present invention also enables a search and recovery operation to be established quickly with minimal expense and setup time.

Referring to the cell phone with GPS of the present invention will now be described. The cell phone incorporating BLUETOOTH technology includes a GPS receiver and a GPS antenna mounted in or on the cell phone housing . The GPS receiver is electronically coupled to processor which in turn is electronically coupled to a memory . The memory can be built into the unit or removably connected thereto such as a flash memory stick or removable cartridge both not shown . The memory will normally contain the information necessary to operate the unit . The memory can also be used to store cartographic data electronic maps waypoints or locations which the unit s operator wants to save bread crumbs of the operator s tracks waypoints of the other units and other assessment data including but not limited to customized forms notes events messages and work orders which may be input into the unit . The cell phone is electronically coupled to the processor and a data modem . The data modem is utilized for transmitting and receiving data such as location data of the units.

The electronic maps stored on the memory devices can be displayed on the unit s display . Waypoints or areas traversed by the unit and stored in the memory can also be displayed on the display . In a preferred embodiment the display is a liquid crystal display LCD and is used to display other information in addition to navigational information. The unit also includes a microphone a speaker and an input . The microphone and speaker are conventional.

Input in a preferred embodiment is an alphanumeric keypad such as the keypad used on cell phones. This permits the entry of letters numbers and any other symbols found on keypads. Utilizing special software almost any number letter or symbol can be entered into the unit. This type of software is commonly available on cellular telephones. The input could also be a microphone a voice recognition input a touch screen a full keyboard similar to a BLACKBERRY or a menu driven display screen.

The cell phone unit can also include a continuous tone coded squelch system CTCSS and a push to talk button . The CTCSS controls the audio output of the speakers so that only desired transmissions can be heard by the user of the cell phone . The push to talk button can be any conventional pushbutton switch or a control device normally found on short range two way radios. The push to talk button is coupled with the processor to combine two important functions in a single button. The push to talk button is operable to both initiate transmission of voice communications and transmission of a radio signal which indicates the GPS location of the unit. Additionally this feature permits updated location information to be automatically transmitted each time the user transmits a voice transmission. Activation of the push to talk button can also trigger a transmission of a radio signal including GPS derived location data indicating the location of the unit transmitting the radio signal. This transmission occurs normally shortly after the voice communications are complete and the push to talk button has been released. The processor keeps the radio transceiver enabled for approximately 100 300 milliseconds to allow the transmission of the location data. The cell phone with GPS unit can also include another feature which enables other individuals to determine its location. This is a polling feature wherein one unit sends a request to the other unit s A G for them to transmit their locations back to the requesting unit. This request can be performed manually by the operator of the requesting cell phone or the requesting unit can be programmed to perform this operation automatically at pre selected time intervals. The locations of the other electronic devices A G are updated on the electronic map of the requesting unit so that at any time all the units can know where all the other units are. Any and all of the units can perform this location request. If the units are programmed to perform this automatically then no input is required by any of the operators.

Cell phones with GPS units which include all of these features are complicated to operate and numerous intricate operational procedures must be memorized and or deciphered to obtain the desired results. Many individuals who are involved in search operations after disasters such as hurricanes are ordinary individuals who are not familiar with the operation of these cell phones. Therefore for the missions to be successful these units need to be modified so that anyone could readily operate them.

Using as an example the Motorola Brute Sanyo Model 7050 Pro 200 or 700 cell phones the following modifications to the software in these cell phones are made prior to its use in the operations. Once these modifications have been made they do not need to be changed except as the user goes into and out of a working cellular network or the network is re established by repairs . These modifications can also be made utilizing BLUETOOTH communications from a base station or on the cell phone unit itself if the model has such capability. As another example a BLACKBERRY Curve Model 3330 GPS cell phone can also be used when modified as stated above and with additional programming and or modifications as well as newly developed cell phone hardware a host of other phones can utilize this system. Newer cell phone models such as Android and iOS based devices may not require extensive modification to utilize their Bluetooth or GPS functions in a disconnected environment. The cell phones with GPS and BLUETOOTH are uploaded with the virtual badge software which can contain the following options abilities and features Forms Pathfinders Time Frame Views Main Menu Clock In Out Sign Out Who Can See Me Know Notifications Synch Now Start Break Message Message Setup Change User GPS Map BLUETOOH Synch Diagnostics About Shutdown Friends as described previously. Additional options abilities and features can include 

 Work Orders can be tasked out to individual mobile electronic devices with the virtual badge software. Detailed information such as location specific needs tasks or any work duties can be sent from the server to one or multiple electronic devices via the system. Once sent to a device or devices with the software the user has the ability to comment and enter in completion information on the work order which then can be transmitted back to the base server with automated time date stamps that are geocoded at that location.

 Events allows mobile users to create invite and confirm attendance for Events which are specified locations with time date information attached within including a description of activities and purpose.

 Notes allows mobile users to create and submit text and photos without predetermined formatting. Mobile users may choose to submit notes privately or to any Affiliation they belong to.

 Profile Surveys allows users to create and complete surveys that profile their skill set credentials interests likes dislikes and preferences for matching logic purposes inherent in the design of the Pathfinders Task Force software.

 Places allows users to create and view locations specifically marked on a map. Users may share these Places with other users and administrators may mark special places of interest for their users.

 Data View allows users to easily access view and interpret GPS submission and location data as it appears on the map. The Data View is a front end feature that displays selected map information in a standardized format on the cell phone.

 Aggregate Data Button allows users to access a grid style view of GPS submission and location data in chronological order. This interface provides users with the ability to sort and filter submitted information based on pre determined attributes as well as allowing users the ability to export this information in a number of formats compatible with 3party software including but not limited to Microsoft Excel Tableau Server Tableau Desktop VirtualUSA ArcGIS ArcMAP Google Earth Pro and Crystal Reports.

 Form Creator allows users to create Forms and Profile Surveys which are accessed by authorized users to fill out and complete. This Form Creator shall be accessible via the web and mobile platforms and utilizes a Drag and Drop interface to create Forms to capture customized information via a multitude of different Field Types . These Forms must be Deployed before additional users may utilize the Form.

 Field Types refer to the different types of information the user is able to capture. These Field Types include but are not limited to Alphanumeric Entry Numeric Only Entry Single Select Multiple Choice Entry Multiple Select Multiple Choice Entry Geotagged Photo Upload Geotagged Photo Attach Checkbox Radio Button Signature Capture Barcode Scan and Submit Button. Any given field type can be programmed to either require a field user to input information into that field before submitting or it can be programmed to save the last value entered on a previous form so that the user does not need to re enter the same data again. An example of this feature might be to save a filed user from needing to re enter a street name with 50 homes on the same street.

 Deploy Forms refers to granting certain users groups and affiliations authorization to submit a particular Form. Forms must be deployed before any user other than the creator to submit and thus undeployed forms are listed as Draft .

 Organization and Assignment Screen allows users to easily create groups teams and task forces to organize and manage their users. The Organization and Assignment Screen also allows users to be tasked for functional purposes by allowing users to be assigned to Tasks Needs Work Orders Events Affiliations and potentially other uses. Users may be organized and assigned to tasks via a Drag and Drop interface. Users may be sorted based on their profiles skill sets ICS certifications or other classifications via Matching Logic .

 Matching Logic refers to complex software algorithms that classify users based on their responses to profile surveys allowing for users to be matched to appropriate Tasks Needs Work Orders Events Affiliations and potentially other uses because the users skill sets and qualifications match with the services needed. Users may be classified based on customizable information Ex Profile surveys may classify based on functional skill set such as medical physical technology leadership etc. and a corresponding Task Need Work Order or Event may be customized to need one of these functional skill sets. The appropriate users may then be matched to the appropriate Task Need Work Order Event or Affiliation. Likewise as a user completes more details of his her own profile and skill sets that user may be better matched with a group or organization which has listed its own set of profiles into the system in its own search for like minded or like skilled users.

The administrator likewise has the ability to pre set the expiration date of a user or group of users via a self destruct mechanism. Alternatively if a user is terminated before the pre set date the administrator may send a self destruct code to the virtual badge as well as notify supervisory mobile virtual badges to immediately restrict access to a specific virtual badge.

After an operational duty has been inputted with any related maps the responder goes out into the designated search areas with an electronic device which has GPS features and functions. At the beginning of every day a different route or search area can be programmed into each electronic device. Preferably each team will have the same route or search area and different teams will have different routes or search areas. As the team members cover the routes or search areas they will encounter individuals or locations which require specific needs. These items can be inputted into the electronic device in the methods described above.

The system also can recognize and list the Emergency Support Functions ESF and categorize ESF 1 18 with possible uses as described previously 

With reference to the operation of a typical search would proceed as follows. The base unit is uploaded with a map of the county or area surrounding the site of the disaster at . The individual team electronic devices are uploaded with the virtual badge software and with pre programmed controls and settings at . The individual team units are uploaded with a specific target search map for one day at . The team members upload the routes covered searched areas assessment data and waypoints from that day to the base station at . While the upload is preferably preformed wirelessly any other type of data transfer is acceptable. These routes or search areas may be color coded. Any photos taken using the software can be tied directly to a related custom form all of which when saved is automatically time date stamped and marked with that location via GPS. The data uploaded into the base station unit is analyzed and the next day s search areas or route are determined at . The new search areas or route are uploaded into the teams individual electronic devices at and the procedure then returns to step . While the new routes are preferably uploaded wirelessly any other type of data transfer is acceptable.

With reference to the procedure of a typical cleanup operation after a disaster is described. The base unit is uploaded with a map of the area surrounding the site of the disaster at . The subcontractors units are pre programmed with virtual badge software and with controls settings and color codes at . The subcontractors units are uploaded with a specific map or target area for the day at . The safety officer checks the UHF VHF or 800 MHz frequency communications or iDEN features of the individual electronic devices at if they have such features. The subcontractors proceed to a temporary debris site within the target area. At this location the waypoint information which they have collected that day is downloaded to a unit at the temporary debris site via BLUETOOTH communications at . This information is subsequently sent to a base station. Any photos taken using the software can be tied directly to a related custom form all of which when saved is automatically time date stamped and marked with that location via GPS. At the end of the day or during the work cycle the subcontractor units return to the base station and automatically download their tracking and waypoint information to a base station unit via BLUETOOTH communications or other wireless technologies at . Alternatively a field server may be deployed with the software loaded into it to afford mobile users a remote download location without returning to a base. The data is analyzed and new maps and target areas are prepared for the next day s operation at and the procedure then returns to step .

With reference to the operation of a typical insurance company s adjuster s visit to a disaster area is described. The base station unit is uploaded with a map of the area surrounding the site of the disaster at . The adjuster s units are pre programmed with virtual badge software and with controls settings and color codes at . The team leaders assign the insurance adjusters a target area to be covered and the adjusters electronic devices are uploaded with pre programmed controls settings and color codes at . Each insurance adjuster uses the waypoint locater feature of their electronic device with GPS to locate each policyholder s property address and confirm the actual visit to the site at . The adjuster can then make notes regarding damages to the property in their own computers or other devices. Any photos taken using the software can be tied directly to a related custom form all of which when saved is automatically time date stamped and marked with that location via GPS. The insurance adjusters return to the base station and the information contained in their units is uploaded into the base station unit via BLUETOOTH communications or other wireless technologies at . Alternatively a field server may be deployed with the software loaded into it to afford mobile users a remote download location without returning to a base. The data is analyzed and the following day s target areas are determined by the insurance coordinator. New maps and target areas are prepared for the following day at and the procedure then returns to step .

In addition to utilizing electronic devices described previously to implement the system of the present invention smart phones such as the iPHONE and tablet personal computers such as the iPAD can also be utilized to implement the system of the present invention. Such features and functions described previously are applicable to the smart phone and or tablet devices. illustrate the front and back of a typical smart phone . The front of the smart phone includes a screen which displays images and data obtained by the software programs of the smart phone. Buttons or controls 4 of which are illustrated extend along a lower portion of the smart phone. These buttons or controls are employed to perform different functions depending on the software within the smart phone. A speaker is located proximate an upper portion of the smart phone. This speaker is normally used to broadcast audio transmissions received by the smart phone though it could be used to allow voice activated field form fill ins. The smart phone is preferably encased in a material which protects the smart phone from damage. A camera is located on the rear portion of the smart phone. The camera is used to record video images for retention on the smart phone or transmission to another location. Each photo taken using the software can be tied directly to a related custom form all of which when saved is automatically time date stamped and marked with that location via GPS. A connection on an upper portion of the smart phone enables auxiliary devices such as ear buds to be connected to the smart phone. Another control is located along a side of the smart phone. Control is similar to controls .

A tablet personal computer such as an iPAD is illustrated in . The tablet computer includes a screen on the front of the computer. The screen displays images and data obtained by the tablet computer. A control button is located on the front of the tablet computer and in a lower portion thereof. Control button is used to select certain options available within the software on the computer. The options can be for example Go Back View the Operating System Main Menu Search etc. The control button is similar to the controls and on the smart phone. Button can perform many different functions dependent upon the software operating within the tablet computer. A camera is located in an upper portion of the front of the tablet computer . The camera is used to record video images for retention on the tablet computer or transmission to another location. Each photo taken using the software can be tied directly to a related custom form all of which when saved is automatically time date stamped and marked with that location via GPS. One or more speakers are located proximate a lower portion of the tablet computer. This speaker is normally used to broadcast audio transmissions received by the tablet computer though it could be used to allow voice activated field form fill ins. Buttons or controls extend along a side portion of the tablet computer. Button can be employed to lock the computer from receiving any user input. Button can be a volume control button. These buttons or controls are employed to perform different functions depending on the software within the tablet computer. A button on an upper portion of the tablet computer puts the computer into a hibernation mode and awakens it from this mode. Headphone jack on an upper portion of the computer permits audio output devices to be connected to the computer.

Referring to of the major components of the smart electronic device illustrated in is described. The features described in schematic diagram are in addition those elements described above. Components described above and identified in the with a different identifying number are not meant to indicate different structures. Accordingly the smart phone tablet may include a GPS receiver and a GPS antenna mounted in or on the smart phone tablet . The GPS receiver is electronically coupled to processor which in turn is electronically coupled to a memory . The memory can be built into the smart phone tablet unit or removably connected thereto such as a flash memory stick or removable cartridge both not shown . The memory will normally contain the information necessary to operate the smart phone tablet . The memory can also be used to store cartographic data electronic maps waypoints or locations which the unit s operator wants to save bread crumbs of the operator s tracks waypoints of the other units and other assessment data including but not limited to customized forms notes events messages and work orders which may be input into the smart phone tablet . The smart phone tablet is electronically coupled to the processor and a data modem . The data modem is utilized for transmitting and receiving data such as location data of the units. The processor may be designed to provide voice command capabilities in which the user s voice would allow for various tasks including but not limited to send text messages listen to music get directions call contacts send emails view a map go to websites or other functions such as populate forms with data or other text.

The electronic maps stored on the memory devices can be displayed on the smart phone tablet unit s display . Waypoints or areas traversed by the unit and stored in the memory can also be displayed on the display . In a preferred embodiment the display is a liquid crystal display LCD and is used to display other information in addition to navigational information. Any other type of display may also be used on the smart phone tablet . The smart phone tablet also includes a microphone a speaker and an input .

Input in a preferred embodiment is an alphanumeric keypad such as the keypad used on telephones. This permits the entry of letters numbers and any other symbols found on keypads. Utilizing special software almost any number letter or symbol can be entered into the unit. This type of software is commonly available on cellular telephones. The input could also be a microphone a voice recognition input a touch screen a full keyboard similar to a BLACKBERRY or a menu driven display screen.

The smart phone tablet can also include a continuous tone coded squelch system CTCSS and a push to talk button or other voice activated systems. The CTCSS controls the audio output of the speakers so that only desired transmissions can be heard by the user of the cell phone . The push to talk button can be any conventional pushbutton switch or a control device normally found on short range two way radios. The push to talk button is coupled with the processor to combine two important functions in a single button. The push to talk button is operable to both initiate transmission of voice communications and transmission of a radio signal which indicates the GPS location of the unit. Additionally this feature permits updated location information to be automatically transmitted each time the user transmits a voice transmission. Activation of the push to talk button can also trigger a transmission of a radio signal including GPS derived location data indicating the location of the unit transmitting the radio signal. This transmission occurs normally shortly after the voice communications are complete and the push to talk button has been released. The processor keeps the radio transceiver enabled for approximately 100 300 milliseconds to allow the transmission of the location data. The smart phone tablet can also include polling feature which enables other individuals to determine its location. Additional components of the smart phone tablet may include a camera or camera input sensors such as image sensors touch screen sensors peripheral connectors for charging a battery or for uploading or downloading data such as a USB data port. For those devices that require tracking tracking technology such as an RFID tag or NFC chip may be included.

The virtual badge system of the present invention can be employed to provide a functional and efficient database to serve as the repository for all information gathered in the field via the electronic device. This database shall be separated into sectors based on user permission and user affiliations to other organizations contained inside the software. The system also may allow for a separate database storage system at a specifically desired location like a user s normal offices.

The virtual badge system of the present invention can also provide the means for an authorized and affiliated Governmental entity typically a County or Parish s Emergency Management Team to control a disaster response operation via the electronic device which is interfaced with a web based version of the cell phone software meant for administrative purposes. This affiliated Governmental entity henceforth referred to as the Regional Commander may submit a mass alert to authorized users that serves as an opt in program to the particular disaster response operation. This ability via the customized software allows the Regional Commander to organize and task both his virtual badge users of responders and what would normally be spontaneous volunteers with no affiliation or tasking.

The virtual badge system of the invention allows users to create discrete groups businesses organizations and affiliations via the electronic device for the purpose of business management and user privacy. Groups businesses organizations and affiliations are treated as discrete entities by utilizing the cell phone software that contains a private sector of the database that only authorized users may access. Users may clock in or clock out using the electronic device software to enable or disable affiliation with a group business organization or affiliation.

Organization tools are also available via the electronic device such that responders and users in the field can customize the organization of their virtual badge users. Users have the ability via the system and or electronic device equipped to drag and drop user representations in the electronic device or base s software to assign them to organizations and groups and in emergency management events into chain of command charts for both paramilitary and military responses.

Inventory management related tools are also available via the electronic device such that responders and users in the field can easily create and maintain inventory lists for further reference. This generally applies to disaster environments primarily for critical inventory management but is applicable to non disaster scenarios. In this embodiment with a plug in module the virtual badge may contain similar information to a person s identification data such as a photo data location quantity condition clock in clock out timed maintenance required like servicing a generator or expiration schedule like medications of inventoried assets and or an image like a Bar or QR code linked of the inventoried equipment all of which can be monitored managed and scanned as described herein.

The present invention can also provide a mobile credit card payment reward system and credit card payment gateway for mobile users to process payment via the electronic device equipped for purchasing the virtual badge or for payment for jobs completed in the field. This mobile credit card payment system and credit card payment gateway can be implemented via pre existing external attachments to the cell phone that allow for or by NFC or scanning technologies including magnetic strip cards to be read interpreted and processed for payment via the customized electronic device software credit card payment gateway and or database . The electronic device can be adapted to incorporate software and or a digital chip that holds a virtual badge user s information. The chip can be designed to generate a unique pin code when used. The unique pin code can be generated every time it is used or at predetermined times. If the virtual badge is lost or stolen the self destruct mechanism will render the virtual badge useless immediately upon implementation.

The present invention can also provide privacy controls via the electronic device for the purpose of allowing virtual badge users in non disaster purposes the ability to hide their location and information submitted from other discrete users groups businesses organizations or affiliations subject to an administrator s approval . The nature of GPS tracking necessitates that privacy controls be implemented via the customized cell phone software in order for the invention to be viable on a day to day basis. It is yet a further objective of the invention to provide the user easy means via the cell phone to change settings in the cell phone software related to user Profile Information GPS Locations Settings BLUETOOTH Synchronization Wi Fi Synchronization and privacy controls. All of these settings change settings in the cell phone software. This can be accomplished by pre programming a single push button on a cell phone or device to perform all of these functions when activated. Some secure facilities may choose to not allow virtual badge users the option of turning off the tracking mechanism and alternative forms of the software allow such controls by a client.

The present invention also provides a system and method for identifying or classifying members of a team of virtual badge users based on their knowledge skills qualifications certifications and abilities to perform particular functions. The members of the team can be career responders or volunteers. The members of the response team are preferably identified or classified into Types based on completion of FEMA sponsored National Incident Management System NIMS instructional and command oriented classes based on previous disaster response experience using Task Books or based on defined parameters by the system of the present invention. Each Type can have sub categories. The following six Types are an example though any additional Types are also possible dependent on an administrator or agency s preference or policies such as the Forest Service s current red card system designed to qualify and credential first responders 

Type VI non registered applicants and or responders with just a headshot photo of themselves and or personal data.

Type V Entry level. Inexperienced and untrained. Passed initial verifications as set by an administrator

Type IV Inexperienced with some training. Has completed a criminal background check. Completed certifications like NIMS courses IS 100 IS 200 and IS 700. Completion of orientation and or on boarding as a new user. Has photo identification.

Type III Inexperienced with some command training. Has completion of criminal background check. Completed NIMS courses IS 100.a IS 200.a and IS 700.a. Basic first aid and CPR knowledge. Completion of orientation. Has photo identification. Type II Some experience with full command training. Has completion of criminal background check. Completed NIMS courses IS 100.a IS 200.a ICS 300 IS 700.a and IS 800.b. First aid and CPR knowledge. Completion of orientation. Has photo identification.

Type II Lots of verifiable experience with full command training. Has completion of criminal background check. Completed NIMS courses IS 100.a IS 200.a ICS 300 IS 700.a IS 800.b. IS 0305 and other command level certifications. First aid and CPR knowledge. Completion of orientation. Has photo identification. Has more extensive verifiable task book type qualifications in addition to certifications from various courses.

Type I Extensive experience with full command training. Has completion of criminal background check. Completed NIMS courses IS 100.a IS 200.a ICS 300 ICS 400 IS 700.a IS 800.b. IS 0305 and other command level certifications. First aid and CPR knowledge. Completion of orientation. Verifiable field experience. Has photo identification. Has extensive verifiable task book type qualifications in addition to certifications from various courses.

Software contained within the electronic devices or on the web based version can sort the virtual badge users based on the above noted criteria using matching logic or manually matching their skills and talents with the needs of an organization to accomplish a job or task. EMAC mission assignments then would be assured of relying upon currently qualified and certified personnel during a deployment. Students attending a course could be sent a virtual badge as part of the registration process and then be Clocked in or Clocked Out by the Instructor with a virtual badge either using scanning or NFC type technologies. On successful completion of a course the virtual badge users can upload their National Incident Management System NIMS or other course certificates via a portal on the software s website or upload said documents using the software. The courses can be verified by an administrator and entered into the system via the server side database of the software system. Alternatively the system could import this kind of data from a state or local training center via an API link if desired. This updates the system to sort and Type the individuals or volunteers as well as to assist with assigning appropriate tasks to appropriately qualified virtual badge users. The system can be designed to send an alert to a supervisor or administrator if a virtual badge user s certificates have expired or are inadequate for a task. For example in working an oil spill a virtual badge user may need a HazMat course and if a virtual badge user were inappropriately selected for a task an alert could be automatically sent to the administrator advising of this inadequate level of certification of that user for that task.

The invention also provides the user with tools for integration with existing software via software APIs such that the data collected via the electronic device software system may be exported and integrated for additional uses reporting analytical or business development purposes.

The present invention further enables 2 way satellite communication via cell phones and satellite devices that transmit data through the satellite network as opposed to through cellular signal. These devices can permit the virtual badge user to be online at all times even when the device is disconnected from cell service and will aid in disaster operations.

The present invention also involves a process wherein a small crew and or family unit with the virtual badge software could set user defined administrative settings which restrict or allow selective GPS visibility in the mobile and or desktop software application. These user defined administrative settings should allow for user data in the form of geo tagged photos events forms tasks and locations to be encrypted in the mobile and or desktop software application before this data is sent to the server. As per this technical process only authorized users mobile and or desktop applications possess the corresponding private key to decrypt this data. For further safety and security additional administrative settings allowing remote access to the handset may be enabled. These additional administrative settings include but are not limited to turning on the handset microphone either forward or backward facing cameras and browsing history. This invention therefore has administrative settings that can be enabled or disabled in certain builds of the application. These administrative settings further encrypt locations in the application and help ensure safety. This process allows very strict monitoring of a small crew or family unit of virtual badge users by an administrator within a protected silo.

In yet another use of a variation of a local government could use the same displayed methods for training which training can integrate with on going research in a community. For example if teams were receiving training on the software system forms could be created which can survey data collection by students in the field. By targeting a certain low income community for such a training zone a class could collect housing data such as the age and type of roofing storm hardened windows obvious code enforcement issues. As a result of such a survey the local government then could use the field collected data for grant application like block grant funding from the federal government to prove for the grant application that there is indeed a justified need for the grant monies to support. Similar data could be pre scripted into forms for such trainings on door to door surveys of local populations as well with invaluable data for collecting unmet needs local trends and research for university studies. Once again this system used in these examples meets FEMA s Whole Community approach to developing such systems and more day to day use like described herein offers viable uses for training opportunities for a wealth of development programs as well.

Referring to a cell phone with an illustrative embodiment of a virtual badge is shown. The virtual badge may be shown while still allowing the user the capability of using the cell phone such as making calls ending calls or applications for web browsing texting or gaming .

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of the virtual badge as illustrated in is shown. The virtual badge in the phone or a handset can be designed and programmed to be functional by displaying fixed data or data that can be changed include a variety of information such as an image a picture of the individual a barcode or QR code provides for additional functionality which contains the same and or additional data about the user and which can be scanned for that data on the image via another electronic device with scanning technology or any other scanning technology such as barcode or QR code readers. This virtual badge concept in this figure can be applied to electronic devices like both Smart phones and Feature phones alike. In addition to the photo images or as part of being Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS Compliant the virtual badge may include details like the badge s issuing agency name expiration date as well as other text based identification such as name of the individual company identification title and phone number . In addition to or if the person with the virtual badge is an individual the address of the location the individual is allowed access to or the address at which the individual resides can be included. Such information is for illustrative purposes only and is not meant to be limiting whatever other information or FIPS standards may be imposed can be included in the badge.

The electronic display device includes alternate power sources like a rechargeable battery pack a USB port to recharge the battery and or synch to a separate computing device a power adapter to recharge the battery and or directly power the device and a control unit including a circuit board at such as a printed circuit board and or a microcontroller with memory capacity to store limited amounts of data including images and or photos see . The circuit board at also could be programmed to randomly create a unique pin ID number for security reasons such as for example to help avoid hackers corrupting a payment gateway. The electronic device also includes the necessary associated circuitry at to electrically couple to the display screen such as an LCD screen. The electronic display device could be worn by the user hanging from a lanyard with clips like at see similar to plastic badges. For additional tracking and access control features this lightweight electronic display device also could contain an RFID tag or NFC chip which could be used for additional user tracking via RF check points or for opening doors locks or other security devices which the RFID or NFC chip can be provided credentials. The RFID tag could be active or passive. If passive the tag comprises at least an integrated chip or circuit an antenna and a substrate. If active the tag comprises a microchip an antennae an on board power supply and on board electronics. The electronic display device could utilize the sync control button to manually view various screens at by pressing the button or a scroll screen as pricing for such alternatives may become affordable for this embodiment . The power button power cycles the display device which button could recall the unit from a sleep mode wherein the unit automatically transitions into a power saving mode which time span may be pre set by the Administrator. The electronic display device could alternatively contain a chip which generates a unique security code such as when a credit card linked to the virtual badge account is used which provides yet another anti counterfeiting solution. The security code may be generated every time at predetermined times or randomly. This device could be linked to the user s own cell phone or other electronic device whereby the virtual badge data and images could be transferred by Bluetooth or Wi Fi or other wireless link from the phone to the device. Using this method the user s phone could be carried in its case while the inexpensive device is hung from a lanyard so that other personnel can view the badge in the separate device.

The virtual badge displayed on the display units such as the phone as described previously could also be linked to the electronic display device so that the same images are displayed on the screen via BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology. In this manner the electronic device connects to a cellular network via cellular radio chip or the internet via a WI FI or Mesh WIFI network and receives the virtual badge information relating to the user either through the virtual badge device through a cell phone with the virtual badge software running linked via BLUETOOTH or other wireless technology or through a router see . The electronic display device could further be configured to connect to the user s cell phone which transfers the virtual badge info via wireless technology form the phone to the electronic display device .

At a checkpoint where a visible inspection may be needed the virtual badge information would be stored on the device shown at . By using the power button at the security person could activate the device from its sleep mode into a read mode to allow a full view of the data displayed on the LCD screen at . By using the control button at the security person could scroll through various screens of data on its LCD screen such as the logo screen see to verify the appropriate issuing agencies and then scroll the screen display to show the user s personal identification data such as in where a security personnel could scan the barcode or QR code of the user s virtual badge device via . After scanning the virtual badge as described above on a pre set and adjustable interval or field of movement of the user the device would return to its sleep mode to conserve the battery after a pre set time period.

As another feature in the device when it is in sleep mode the device can be programmed to display in large block letters a user s identification like his or her first name or a shape or color. The LCD screen in its sleep mode would have adequate back lighting to display just the basic block letters so that passer by personnel might readily identify the user and thus also authenticate that the user is in the appropriate section of the secure area or facility.

Alternatively the device could be worn by a user and linked to a Wi Fi mesh or other wireless network within a facility or for example a ship. Using this method the device contains the same data and information as described above and illustrated in but in this instance no cell phone is needed. The user still may be tracked via the RFID or NFC or other tracking technology at in the device when the user passes through pre assigned check points with readers in place. For example if the virtual badge is used in a hotel setting the device could be used for various access points using NFC or similar technologies to unlock hotel room doors provide payment gateways allow reward programs provide local Internet access passcodes provide hotel maps allow for push notifications provide enhanced safety monitoring systems and or provide user analytic information for increased visitor access efficiencies and analytics. After using the device it could be swiped clean of that user s data and be ready for use by another user immediately.

Once loaded into an ICS in a format like Excel the virtual badge with a possible added unique identifier like the user s phone number s last four digits could be used in other ways to facilitate filling in ICS forms during an incident. Attendance at classes using such ICS process also could be enhanced and eliminate the need for paper and pen registration systems which later need to be loaded into electronic systems manually or by scanning. Using copy and paste or drag and drop methods an administrator could simply take a listed virtual badge from the ICS and move it over to an ICS a work assignment sheet . Because the virtual badge user can be ranked by qualifications crew leaders as well as crew members are more easily created in the ICS . Using the same methodology an administrator can create other ICS forms as well again relying upon the virtual badge data transfer into the various forms. For example by linking a red or green color to the virtual badge the administrator easily can view which users are active as well on the scene at any given moment in time based on the color linked to that virtual badge s listing on the various forms.

The present invention may be used to increase user awareness in various situations. For example using split screen technology a local commander can gain far broader situational awareness. For example one screen might display a map with all of the virtual badge users in the field. A linked screen could display another map with incoming geotagged and time date stamped field photos and forms being submitted from the virtual badge holders. Yet another screen could project thumbnail photos on the map linked to various icons displayed on the same map to further represent incoming field data. These photos or icons can be ringed with selected color codes by pre designating certain fields to display certain colors on submission form the field user to more easily identify the priority or level of that icon or photo as an administrator views a collection of such icons on a map displayed in the software. Another screen could display active and inactive command personnel on an ICS or ICS . An interactive ICS supplement in Excel or HTML format could be on yet another screen allowing for monitoring events as they unfold and allowing for the quick assignment of personnel to incoming field forms coming in from one field virtual badge user or crew and then automatically assigning another virtual badge user or crew to the task of resolving the need at that same geotagged location. With a fully functioning system integrating all the technologies described herein with or without cell and Internet service an Incident Commander is provided with far greater awareness and accountability of all operations.

In another embodiment of the system a separate scanner can be attached to the electronic device directly or through a computer on a network synced to the phone which scanner can scan a magnetic strip or collect a random chip generated unique identifying number of an ID like a driver s license. In this method the user s license information then is transferred directly into the virtual badge. This method is yet another alternative though it may not share the pass through of the data into a local law enforcement or administrative network which may or may not be desired. Nonetheless this is yet another way for the virtual badge to load data and images where low security thresholds may be acceptable. In yet another embodiment of the system a device like a simple I Touch manufactured by APPLE with no cell capability may be tethered to a GPS device if GPS is desired and the software loaded on to this device would allow the device which could be preloaded with specific data and images into its memory to then scan in and out virtual badges and or inventoried assets as described herein. Using mobile fingerprint hardware or biometric readers on smart phones and or tablets a user could load biometric data into the system

For use in the 100 disconnected environment the Bar or QR code see may be scanned at a check point by a guard with a Smart phone with a camera or using NFC technology loaded with the mobile software and system. The guard s Smart phone can pull up its own cache of data information pre loaded by the Administrator while the guard s phone was either connected by WiFi WiFi Mesh Bluetooth or cell to the system. On scanning the virtual badge in a location with no cell or Internet the guard also can retrieve verification of the data set at on like a photo logos a name date of birth and or address for the guard to verify the user matches the virtual badge as displayed on the user s phone. In this embodiment no cell service is needed at the check point whether the check point is in a disaster area where the infrastructure has been destroyed or in a foreign country with inadequate incompatible cell service.

All data and images can be wiped clean from the electronic device allowing them to be used over and over by multiple users. For example as part of this method by holding down the control button simultaneously for a pre set amount of time the device thoroughly would scrub and erase all data stored in its memory at . The re use capability creates a green technology which can replace the generally single use plastic and paper badge technologies.

All of the tracking and mapping history of the user would be integrated into the rest of the system defined within this application to allow for mapping and data assessments. With an RFID NFC or other chip users also could be passively tracked without the need for check point personnel thereby reducing monitoring costs while simultaneously increasing the precision of monitoring due to more frequent check points being implemented. With a Wi Fi network as an example coupled with an area wide system of chip check points and overlays the administrator could in fact live time track all personnel within a facility dependent on the coverage of the entire network and system. Further with a Mesh Wi Fi network such as at a disaster or on a ship users within the network could be live tracked with the use of chip check points and overlays even in an environment with no cell or Internet service. Likewise PUSH notifications within the system would allow administrators to select individual or group users of virtual badges to send messages to the users.

Besides use at check points on bridges approaching restricted barrier island communities following a disaster this system has a broad ability to adapt to day to day uses. College campuses could use the virtual badge for visitors or prospective applicants who can be tracked as they visit a campus if desired. Mass volunteer operations could make use of the device for short term events like parades or festivals. Travel or Tourism facilities could make use of the device to keep track of tourists entering or leaving a hotel or resort. Using the electronic devices preferably with NFC or RFID tracking capability or the GPS devices described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 154 440 or related applications the virtual badge offers the ability to track a user throughout a network of roads and buildings spanning even the largest of bases and or even third world countries which likely will have inadequate cell tower coverage.

All facilities and or restricted areas would benefit from a far more accurate method of ensuring that all users actually have exited an area through an exact accounting method of tracking all exiting personnel at the end of a shift or work cycle. Even in tours of sensitive federal facilities like The White House where visitor information is sent to a clearing facility ahead of allowing entry said data and information could be fed through the system into the cell phones and or devices. Once activated on the day of the individual arriving for the tour the cell phone and or device can be worn on a lanyard allowing for easy identification of the virtual badge holder. Further with the RFID NFC or other chip remote monitors could live track all virtual badges if so desired or at the least monitor all badges to make sure every user safely exits the secure area after a given time period. PUSH notifications could be used for emergency incidents as well. With the self destruct feature virtual badge users lose access once a prescribed time period elapses in case they forget to turn in their electronic device at the end of a visit. When the user returns the badge upon exiting the device can be wiped clean re charged as needed and then re used again countless times.

Consistent with the rest of this mobile software application a user with an approved virtual badge on his device or cell phone may have the device s history mapped and tracked via the GPS based mobile application for minutes hours and or days subject to the Administrator s setting. This method of tracking allows for yet another business method of charging for the virtual badge s tracking during usage by charging by the minute just as cell phone usage is normally charged. Related to this option and if selected by an administrator as an option a guard at a check point could turn on the tracking of the user s device via manual or electronic means at the check point for the period when the user is within the restricted area. If the user departs from the restricted area the guard or Administrator may be alerted and or the time location and the time at the location can be stored for future retrieval. As part of proper exit protocol i.e. when the individual is no longer in the known restricted area the guard or administrator could deactivate the tracking software in the same manner it was activated on entry. Using this option for a group of users with badges within the restricted area thus allows for example for law enforcement to examine all the users track histories if there were a burglary within the restricted area to help establish which user may have been near the GPS location of the burglary at the time of the intrusion.

While the system can be designed to not let the virtual badge user deactivate the virtual badge while in such a zone the user might disable the virtual badge by simply turning off the phone or the phone or device s battery might go dead. The system could note the time and date of such a deactivation and either alert an administrator or log the time date and last known coordinates of that virtual badge. An icon on the administrator s map representing that virtual badge also can automatically be programmed to change to a certain color as part of such an alert. With connectivity the users could be live tracked on base maps or from a supervisor s smart phone with the application while the virtual badge users were within the restricted area. Even within areas where there are not cell towers resulting in a completely disconnected environment the device with the virtual badge could be tracked using the methods described in the rest of this software application and its earlier versions.

Referring to an illustrative use of the system method and devices is illustrated in an access control environment. The system is also designed to allow virtual badge user profiles to be loaded onto a separate virtual badge device for the purpose of using the device to handle access control at place such as laboratories hotels or other facilities that may have restricted zones. A user or security personnel would sync a virtual badge profile to a separate virtual badge device . This separate virtual badge device would communicate with the virtual badge server using its cellular radio chip WIFI chip or NFC RFID chip . Once the separate virtual badge device has communicated to the server successfully at this means that the appropriate access credentials are loaded into the virtual badge device s memory which allows the device to access and open doors locks and other controlled areas that use RF readers. If the virtual badge administrator requires it the user s separate virtual badge device may be scanned in which could optionally activate GPS tracking via either the cellular chip RFID or NFC chip . Once the virtual badge device has been loaded with an active profile this device can be used to unlock doors containers or other verified security entities . Optionally a user may choose to use their separate virtual badge device to make secure payments using the random credit card security code chip identity verification provided through the virtual badge software . If a user is prompted by security personnel they may require the user to present their separate virtual badge device for the purposes of displaying authorized credentials. When the user is finished on site when the user leaves they will be scanned out by security personnel and will be required to leave their separate virtual badge device before exiting the facility . This allows security personnel to reset the separate virtual badge device s memory which wipes all personal data from the separate virtual badge device. The security personnel can then turn off the device charge it and then issue it to the next user .

The present invention also involves a method that allows for the primary functions of the core mobile and or desktop software application to be easily adapted for a multitude of uses including but not limited to social networking business fleet tracking management disaster response post disaster recovery mitigation preparedness and insurance claims. This technical process is accomplished by adding or subtracting plugin modules from the code base so as to develop FEMA s Whole Community mentality for responding to disasters by users utilizing the mobile application as a part of their normal daily routine. By using the GPS based cell phone application on a regular daily basis for fun or for business when an emergency occurs all of the users are already adept at using the application rather than needing some new training or refresher to recall how to use the application. The switch from normal daily use to a use designed to immediately upload numerous Situational Awareness reports from the Whole Community re emphasizes the capacity of using non governmental responders as force multipliers during a disaster. This collection of technical processes enables the same source code to be customized to fit a multitude of needs. This plug in module design allows for maximum flexibility in adjusting designs to fit the Whole Community whether for business school friends family church or any other applicable group.

All patents and publications mentioned in this specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. All patents and publications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

It is to be understood that while a certain form of the invention is illustrated it is not to be limited to the specific form or arrangement herein described and shown. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention and the invention is not to be considered limited to what is shown and described in the specification and any drawings figures included herein.

One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objectives and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those inherent therein. The embodiments methods procedures and techniques described herein are presently representative of the preferred embodiments are intended to be exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention and are defined by the scope of the appended claims. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in the art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

