---

title: Androgen receptor-dependent gene expression control
abstract: Disclosed is the use of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor for modulating the activity of the lysine-specific demethylase (LSD1) in a mammal and to pharmaceutical compositions for controlling the androgen receptor-dependent gene expression, comprising an effective dose of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor suitable for modulating the activity of the lysine-specific demethylase (LSD1) in a mammal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09370499&OS=09370499&RS=09370499
owner: UNIVERSITAETSKLINIKUM FREIBURG
number: 09370499
owner_city: Freiburg
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140204
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 884 568 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein which is a U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT EP2006 001446 filed Feb. 16 2006 which claims priority of European Patent Application No. 05 003 596.3 filed Feb. 18 2005.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Mar. 26 2014 is named 6118 P50119 SL.txt and is 836 bytes in size.

The present invention relates to the use of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal or for the manufacture of a medicament for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal. The invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition for controlling the androgen receptor dependent gene expression comprising an effective dose of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor suitable for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal. The invention also relates to a method for controlling the androgen receptor dependent gene expression in a mammal said process comprising the step of administering to said mammal on a suitable route an effective dose of a pharmaceutical composition modulating an activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal Finally the invention also relates to assay systems allowing to test LSD1 modulators for their ability to modulate preferably inhibit LSD1 function.

The androgen receptor AR is a member of the steroid hormone receptor family of transcription factors which regulate diverse biological functions including cell growth and differentiation development homeostasis and various organ functions in a mammal particularly in a human. By binding suitable ligands like androgens to the ligand binding domain functions of the AR are activated which are essential for the differentiation development and maintenance of male or female reproductive organs and non reproductive organs as for example the prostate or the mammae .

Transcriptional regulation by nuclear receptors such as the androgen receptor AR involves interaction with multiple factors that act in both a sequential and combinatorial manner to reorganize chromatin. Central to this dynamic reorganization is the modification of core histones. The N terminal tails of histones are subject to various covalent modifications such as acetylation phosphorylation ubiquitination and methylation by specific chromatin modifying enzymes. Histone methylation at specific lysine residues is linked to both transcriptional repression and activation. When searching for new AR interacting proteins Lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 was found to be one example of the chromatin modifying enzymes.

LSD1 contains a centrally located swirm domain which functions as a putative protein protein interaction motif and also contains a C terminal amine oxidase AO domain that harbours the demethylase activity . Endogenous LSD1 and AR associate in vivo in androgen sensitive tissues such as testis . To map the interaction domain between LSD1 and AR in vitro GST pull down analyses with labelled LSD1 and mutants thereof together with GST AR fusion proteins were performed. As shown in full length LSD1 as well as the swirm domain LSD1 175 246 and the AO domain LSD1 247 852 associate with either the N terminus NTD the DNA binding domain DBD or the ligand binding domain LBD of AR. In contrast neither the N terminus of LSD1 LSD1 1 174 nor the GST control interact with AR.

It was now surprisingly found that the demethylating enzyme LSD1 is expressed ubiquitously in human and murine fetal and adult tissues and data not shown . Furthermore it was also detected that LSD1 is found in the same cells and in the same sub cellular areas where the AR is located . In the course of the research resulting into the present invention the above and further findings led to the conclusion that the demethylating enzyme LDS1 may exert a controlling influence on androgen dependent gene expression. Furthermore it was found that monoamine oxidase inhibitors as for example pargyline clorgyline or deprenyl selegiline may be used to control demethylase activity and thereby regulate the AR. Thus a specific modulation of LSD1 activity might by a promising therapeutic target in tissues where the AR plays a pivotal physiological role.

Hence the invention relates to the use of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

Furthermore the invention relates to the use of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor for the manufacture of a medicament for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

Furthermore the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition for controlling the AR dependent gene expression comprising an effective dose of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor suitable for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

The invention also relates to a method for controlling the androgen receptor dependent gene expression in a mammal said process comprising the step of administering to said mammal on a suitable route an effective dose of a pharmaceutical composition modulating an activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

The invention also relates to assay systems allowing to test LSD1 modulators for their ability to modulate LSD1 function wherein at least one chemical substance assumed to exert modulation of LSD1 function is subjected to one or more reaction s wherein said LSD1 is involved under conditions similar or identical to physiological conditions.

In a first aspect the invention relates to the use of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

In a second aspect the invention relates to the use of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor for the manufacture of a medicament for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

In accordance with the invention at least one amine oxidase inhibitor is used. There may be used one amine oxidase inhibitor or there may be used several amine oxidase inhibitors. In preferred embodiments of the invention the use comprises one amine oxidase inhibitor. Any amine oxidase inhibitor may be employed in accordance with the present invention. However in preferred embodiments the at least one amine oxidase inhibitor or the one amine oxidase inhibitor is selected from the group of the monoamine oxidase inhibitors MAOIs comprising both monoamine oxidase A and monoamine oxydase B MAO A and MAO B inhibitors. These compounds can be nardil phenelzine sulfate phenelzin parnate tranylcypromine sulfate tranylcypromine isocarbazid selegiline deprenyl chlorgyline pargyline furazolidon marplan isocarboxazid 1 deprenyl Eldepryl moclobemide Aurorex or Manerix furazolidone harmine harmaline tetrahydroharmine nialamide or any extract from plant insect fish mammals that contains MAOIs. Even more preferably the at least one amine oxidase inhibitor is selected from pargyline clorgyline and deprenyl. Advantageously and hence most preferred the amine oxidase inhibitor is pargyline.

According to the present invention the at least one amine oxidase inhibitor is used for example is used for the manufacture of a medicament for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase which is usually abbreviated as LSD1 . The term modulating as used in the present specification and claims means a change either in the direction of improving the activity or in the direction of reducing the activity in accordance with the invention a blocking of the LDS1 activity is preferred.

In a preferred embodiment of the inventive uses the activity of LSD1 modulated is the LSD1 demethylating activity. This means that the LSD1 exerts an influence as a catalyst in a chemical reaction where target methyl groups in a polymer molecule are removed and thereby any influence on the molecule s activity is effected. To give just one example an amine oxidase inhibitor used in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention may block demethylation of mono and dimethyl H3 K9 during androgen induced transcription. In a further preferred embodiment of the invention when using at least one amine oxidase inhibitor the demethylase activity of LSD1 controlled is the demethylating action of LSD1 on repressing histone marks on the histone H3 and or the histone H4 preferably on repressing histone marks on the lysine residue 9 on the histone H3 H3 K9 and or the lysine residue 20 on the histone H4 H4 K20 more preferably on the repressing histone marks on mono and dimethyl H3 K9 and or H4 K20 thereby increasing AR regulated gene expression.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the mammal in connection to which the amine oxidase inhibitors are used is a human. Even more preferred when applying the invention to a human the LSD1 demethylase activity is targeted to tissues where the AR plays a pivotal physiological role preferably wherein the LSD1 demethylase activity is targeted to the brain testis or prostate of a human and or any other tissue where both LSD1 and AR are co expressed and co localize.

In another aspect the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition for controlling the androgen receptor dependent gene expression comprising an effective dose of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor suitable for modulating the activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

In accordance with the invention it is particularly preferred that the activity of LSD1 modulated by applying the at least one amine oxidase inhibitor is the demethylating activity of LSD1.

In a preferred pharmaceutical composition according to the invention one amine oxidase inhibitor is used although the use of more than one amine oxidase inhibitor is possible and may be advantageous. In even more preferred embodiments the pharmaceutical compositions comprise at least one particularly preferred exactly one amine oxidase inhibitor selected from the group of the monoamine oxidase inhibitors MAOIs comprising both monoamine oxidase A and monoamine oxydase B MAO A and MAO B inhibitors. These compounds can be nardil phenelzine sulfate phenelzin parnate tranylcypromine sulfate tranylcypromine isocarbazid selegiline deprenyl chlorgyline pargyline furazolidon marplan isocarboxazid 1 deprenyl Eldepryl moclobemide Aurorex or Manerix furazolidone harmine harmaline tetrahydroharmine nialamide or any extract from plant insect fish mammals that contains MAOIs preferably wherein the amine oxidase inhibitors are selected from pargyline clorgyline and deprenyl more preferably wherein the amine oxidase inhibitor is pargyline.

It goes without saying that preferred pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention in addition to the amine oxidase inhibitor may contain further components which a skilled person may select in accordance with his ordinary skill. Those components may comprise solvents carriers excipients auxiliary substances by which particular properties of the composition may be established and or adjusted such substances may exert an own effect or may contribute to contribute to effects exerted by other components. Examples of such additional substances can be selected by a person having ordinary skill in this technical field in accordance with the requirements are will known and hence need no further detailed description here.

The invention in another aspect also relates to a method for controlling the androgen receptor dependent gene expression in a mammal said process comprising the step of administering to said mammal on a suitable route an effective dose of a pharmaceutical composition modulating an activity of the lysine specific demethylase LSD1 in a mammal.

In the method of the invention it is preferred that the activity of LSD1 modulated is the LSD1 demethylating activity. In preferred embodiments of the method the modulation is effected by means of at least one amine oxidase inhibitor. In a preferred method according to the invention one amine oxidase inhibitor is used although the use of more than one amine oxidase inhibitor is possible and may be advantageous. In even more preferred embodiments the method comprise the application or administration of at least one particularly preferred exactly one amine oxidase inhibitor selected from the group of the monoamine oxidase inhibitors MAOIs comprising both monoamine oxidase A and monoamine oxydase B MAO A and MAO B inhibitors. These compounds can be nardil phenelzine sulfate phenelzin parnate tranylcypromine sulfate tranylcypromine isocarbazid selegiline deprenyl chlorgyline pargyline furazolidon marplan isocarboxazid 1 deprenyl Eldepryl moclobemide Aurorex or Manerix furazolidone harmine harmaline tetrahydroharmine nialamide or any extract from plant insect fish mammals that contains MAOIs preferably wherein the amine oxidase inhibitors are selected from pargyline clorgyline and deprenyl more preferably wherein the amine oxidase inhibitor is pargyline.

Particularly preferred embodiments of the method of the invention are characterized by that the demethylase activity of LSD1 controlled is the demethylating action of LSD1 on repressing histone marks on the histone H3 and or the histone H4 preferably on repressing histone marks on the lysine residue 9 on the histone H3 H3 K9 and or the lysine residue 20 on the histone H4 H4 K20 more preferably on the repressing histone marks on mono and dimethyl H3 K9 and or H4 K20 thereby increasing AR regulated gene expression.

The routes on which the administration of the effective dose of the pharmaceutical composition according to the invention to said mammal can be performed can be any route of administration conceivable. The administration route may be selected by a skilled person in accordance with his ordinary skill and the requirements of the case. Just to mention few examples the routes may be the oral buccal pulmonal nasal transdermal intravenous subcutaneous intracutaneous intramuscular rectal vaginal or intrathecal administration routes optionally together with per se known carriers adjuvants and additives. The oral intraveneous subcutaneous or intracutaneous administration routes are preferred.

With respect to the targets concerned the LSD1 demethylase activity may be directed to any target in a mammalian body particularly in a human body. Preferably the LSD1 demethylase activity is targeted to tissues where the AR plays a pivotal physiological role preferably wherein the LSD1 demethylase activity is targeted to the brain testis or prostate of a mammal preferably of a human.

The invention also relates to an assay system allowing to test LSD1 inhibitors for their ability to inhibit LSD1 function wherein at least one chemical substance assumed to exert inhibition of LSD1 function is subjected to one or more reaction s wherein said LSD1 is involved under conditions similar or identical to physiological conditions.

The term ability to modulate LDS1 function as used in the present specification and claims mean the ability of a chemical substance assumed or alleged to be a modulator of the enzyme Lysine specific demethylase LSD1 to modulate the function of said enzyme. The modulation may either be an initiating and or activating modulation or may be a decelerating or desactivating or inhibiting or even blocking modulation. In accordance with the assay system of the present invention an inhibiting or blocking modulation is preferred.

As chemical substances basically all chemical substances may be tested by the assay system of the present invention which substances are assumed or alleged to exert a modulating action on LSD1. The reaction s which is are used in the assay system of the present invention may be one reaction or may be several reactions e. g. a reaction sequence or reaction cascade where LSD1 is involved in one or several of the steps making up the reaction. In preferred embodiments of the assay systems of the present invention the reaction s is are a reaction s wherein LSD1 is also involved in its natural environment under natural conditions. In other words The assay system of the present invention makes use of such biochemical reactions or physiological reactions wherein LSD1 is involved when exerting its natural modulating action e. g. on the AR.

The term physiological conditions as used in the present specification and claims is understood to mean conditions which allow a mammal or specifically a human to exist and to be under acceptable living conditions without any undue burden concerning temperature pressure acidity basicity humidity aqueous conditions of liquid systems oxygen content of the gaseous environment etc. Such conditions are applied to the assay system of the present invention during the test phase. In accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention said physiological conditions are conditions established in conducting said assay system which are similar or identical to conditions present in one or more than one reaction s where LSD1 acts under physiological conditions.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to an assay system wherein the reaction the at least one chemical substance is subjected to with the aim of modulating preferably blocking said reaction is the reaction of demethylation by LSD1 on repressing histone marks on specific lysine residues of said histones. More preferably the reaction is the reaction of demethylation by LSD1 on repressing histone marks on the histone H3 or on the histone H4 more preferably is the reaction of demethylation by LSD1 on repressing histone marks on the lysine residue 9 on the histone H3 H3 K9 and or the lysine residue 20 on the histone H4 H4 K20 most preferably is the reaction of demethylation by LSD1 on the repressing histone marks on mono and dimethyl H3 K9 and or H4 K20.

Another preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to an assay system wherein the reaction the at least one chemical substance is subjected to with the aim of modulating preferably blocking said reaction is the reaction of ligand dependent LSD1 induced superaction of AR in 293 or CV 1 cells thus modulating preferably blocking the ligand dependent AR activity.

A further preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to an assay system wherein the reaction the at least one chemical substance is subjected to with the aim of modulating preferably blocking said reaction is the reaction of androgen dependent LNCaP or MCF 7 cell proliferation thus modulating preferably blocking said androgen dependent cell proliferation.

The invention is described in more detail below without restricting it to those embodiments specifically addressed in the above description as well as in the subsequent description of preferred embodiments.

To examine the expression pattern of LSD1 there were performed Northern blot analyses. LSD1 mRNA is ubiquitously expressed in human and murine fetal and adult tissues and data not shown as a transcript of 3.3 kb . To investigate LSD1 localisation in prostate there were used immunohistochemical analyses. As shown in LSD1 is detected in the epithelium of normal prostate and in tumour cells. Importantly these cells also express AR indicating that LSD1 and AR co localise.

Next the sub cellular localisation of endogenous LSD1 and AR in human LNCaP prostate cancer cells was studied by immunofluorescence . LSD1 is present in the nucleus in the absence and presence of the AR agonist R1881. Addition of R1881 results in nuclear co localisation of AR and LSD1. Taken together the data show that LSD1 is a nuclear protein that co localises with AR in androgen sensitive tissues such as prostate.

Since LSD1 was found to associate with chromatin and demethylates H3 K4 in vitro it was examined whether LSD1 directly interacts with core histones. Interaction analyses demonstrated physical association with core histones in vitro . Furthermore the analyses show that LSD1 interacts with the N terminal tail of histone H3 .

To determine whether LSD1 and AR associate with chromatin in vivo LNCaP cells treated with R1881 were subjected to chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP . As shown in genomic DNA corresponding to the androgen response elements ARE I II and ARE III located in the promoter and enhancer of the prostate specific antigen PSA gene respectively was immunoprecipitated in a ligand dependent manner with AR antibodies. Genomic DNA derived from a region between the enhancer and promoter was not enriched thus demonstrating specificity . LSD1 associates with chromatin both in the presence or absence of ligand .

To demonstrate that LSD1 and AR form ligand dependent complexes on chromatinized AREs agonist treated LNCaP cells were subjected to sequential chromatin immunoprecipitation Re ChIP first with an AR antibody and next with either LSD1 or control rabbit IgG antibodies. Importantly both ARE containing regions were enriched demonstrating that LSD1 and AR form a ligand dependent complex on chromatin .

Since PSA gene expression is induced by AR in an agonist dependent manner the methylation levels of repressive histone marks were analysed such as histone 3 at lysine 9 H3 K9 histone 3 at lysine 27 H3 K27 and histone 4 at lysine 20 H4 K20 . Androgen induced transcription is accompanied by a robust decrease in mono di and trimethyl H3 K9 at the PSA promoter .

Since LSD1 is an AO that catalyses demethylation a test was conducted whether monoamine oxidase inhibitors such as pargyline N methyl N 2 propynyl benzylamine clorgyline N methyl N propargyl 3 2 4 dichlorophenoxy propylamine or deprenyl seregeline R N 2 dimethyl N 2 propynylphenethylamine might interfere with LSD1 function. Importantly pargyline blocks demethylation of mono and dimethyl H3 K9 during androgen induced transcription whereas methylation levels of trimethyl H3 K9 and the methylation status of H3 K27 and H4 K20 remains unchanged and data not shown . Interestingly methylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 H3 K4 is not altered in vivo data not shown .

To prove that the ligand dependent demethylation of mono and dimethyl H3 K9 is executed by LSD1 LNCaP cells were transfected with siRNAs directed against LSD1 or an unrelated control. This leads to efficient and specific down regulation of endogenous LSD1 but does not affect the level of endogenous AR lower panel . Importantly LSD1 knockdown blocks ligand dependent demethylation of mono and dimethyl H3 K9 . The amount of total H3 is not influenced by LSD1 knockdown . Taken together these data show the ligand dependent association of LSD1 and AR on chromatinized AREs at the promoter of the PSA gene. This leads to the specific demethylation of the repressive histone marks mono and dimethyl H3 K9.

Next there were performed transient transfection assays to test whether LSD1 modulates the transcriptional activity of AR. Co expression of LSD1 and AR results in a strong ligand dependent activation of an MMTV luciferase reporter which is not observed in the absence of either ligand or AR data not shown . Stimulation of AR activity by LSD1 is potent in different cell lines and both AR responsive minimal synthetic and complex promoters were activated by LSD1 in a ligand dependent manner . Stimulation of AR activity is selective since LSD1 does not affect the transcriptional activity of the related steroid hormone receptors data not shown .

Furthermore it is demonstrated that the AO domain LSD1 247 852 of LSD1 suffices to stimulate AR and ligand dependent reporter gene activity whereas the N terminus LSD1 1 175 and the swirm domain LSD1 176 246 fail to do so . All LSD1 mutants are present in the nucleus and expressed at similar levels data not shown .

To investigate if displacement of repressive histone marks by LSD1 results in increased AR regulated gene expression monoamine oxidase inhibitors such as pargyline clorgyline and deprenyl were used in transient transfections. These inhibitors severely impair LSD1 induced activation of AR . Importantly in LNCaP prostate tumour cells which express endogenous AR only androgen dependent but not unrelated reporters such as TK LUC are inhibited by pargyline thus demonstrating specificity .

Next endogenously expressed LSD1 was efficiently used in LNCaP cells by vector pSUPER LSD1 mediated RNAi right panel . Paralleling LSD1 knockdown a significant ligand dependent decrease of PSA LUC reporter gene expression was observed indicating impaired transcriptional activity of AR as a consequence of LSD1 knockdown left panel . Since LSD1 governs AR transcriptional activity other androgen controlled functions such as androgen dependent cell growth might be regulated by LSD1.

To address this issue LNCaP cells were infected with a lentivirus pLV THM LSD1 expressing siRNA directed against LSD1. Infection with pLV THM LSD1 causes efficient and specific down regulation of endogenous LSD1 but does not affect the level of endogenous AR right panel . Importantly when compared to cells transduced with the pLV THM control virus androgen induced proliferation of LNCaP cells is dramatically inhibited by pLV THM LSD1 mediated LSD1 knockdown left panel . This data demonstrate the physiological importance of LSD1 in the control of androgen induced gene regulation and cell proliferation.

In summary the above data demonstrate that AR function is controlled by the demethylase LSD1. LSD1 and AR associate at chromatinized AREs of AR target genes a ligand dependent manner which results in concomitant demethylation of the repressive histone marks mono and dimethyl H3 K9. LSD1 has been described as a component of co repressor complexesand a recent model proposes that LSD1 represses transcription of genes silenced by Co REST due to demethylation of the activating histone marks on H3 K4. However when complexed with AR LSD1 demethylates the repressing histone marks mono and dimethyl H3 K9 and thereby promotes gene activation. Thus depending on the specific interacting partners LSD1 action might result in either gene silencing or activation. Of importance is our observation that inhibitors such as pargyline control the demethylase activity of LSD1 and thereby regulate AR. Thus specific modulation of LSD1 activity might be a promising therapeutic target in tissues such as brain testis prostate where AR plays a pivotal physiological role.

The following plasmids were described previously pSG5 AR CMX Flag GST AR NTD GST AR DBD GST AR LBD MMTV LUC and TK LUC ARE TATA LUC ARE TK LUC Slp ARU TATA LUC PSA LUC pLV THM www.tronolab.unige.ch pSUPER. To construct CMX Flag LSD1 CMX Flag LSD1 1 174 CMX Flag LSD1 175 246 and CMX Flag LSD1 247 854 the corresponding fragments were amplified by PCR and inserted at the EcoRI NheI site of CMX Flag. pSUPER control pSUPER LSD1 and pLV THM LSD1 were constructed according to www.tronolab.unige.ch and as published. Sequences can be obtained upon request.

Polyclonal rabbit LSD1 antibody was generated according to standard procedures. Stainings were performed using a protocolfor antigen retrieval and indirect immunoperoxidase. AR 441 Santa Cruz and LSD1 were used at a dilution of 1 75 and 1 500 rabbit IgG and mouse IgG 1 500 Dako were used as secondary antibodies and immunoreactions were visualised with the ABC complex diluted 1 50 in PBS Vectastain Vector .

293 and CV 1 cells were cultured and transfected as described. LNCaP cells were cultured in phenol red free RPMI1640 supplemented with 10 double stripped fetal calf serum dsFCS and transfected with Effectene Qiagen . The following amounts per well were used MMTV LUC ARE TATA LUC ARE TK LUC TK LUC PSA LUC Slp ARU TATA LUC 500 ng each 25 ng expression plasmids for AR 500 ng expression plasmids for LSD1 1 174 LSD1 175 246 LSD1 247 852 pSUPER control and pSUPER LSD1 100 to 500 ng expression plasmids for LSD1 were transfected per well. Chemicals were obtained as indicated pargyline Sigma deprenyl and chlorgyline ICN Biomedicals Inc. R1881 Schering AG Berlin . Cells were treated with or without 10M R1881 3 10M pargyline 1 10M deprenyl or 1 10M chlorgyline for 18 hours as indicated. Luciferase activity was assayed as described. All experiments were repeated at least five times in duplicate.

ChIP experiments were performed essentially as described. LNCaP cells were treated for 18 hours with or without pargyline and for 210 min with or without 10M R1881 as indicated. LNCaP cells were transfected three days before harvesting for ChIP with or without siRNA Qiagen following the manufacture s instructions Immunoprecipitation was performed with specific antibodies monoMeK9H3 diMeK9H3 triMeK9H3 monoMeK4H3 diMeK4H3 triMeK4H3 H3 abcam LSD1 and AR PG21 Upstate Biotechnology on GammaBind Sepharose 4B GE Healthcare . For PCR 1 5 l out of 50 l DNA extract was used. For Re ChIP assays immunoprecipitations were sequentially washed with TSE I TSE II buffer III and TE. Complexes were eluted by incubation with 10 mM DTT at 37 C. for 30 min diluted 50 times with dilution bufferfollowed by a second immunoprecipitation with the indicated antibody. Primer sequences were as follows middle PSA 2223 1951 5 TGGGTTGGGTCAGGTTTTGGTT 3 SEQ ID NO 1 and 5 TCTTCCCCTGTTTCTAGTTGAGTG 3 SEQ ID NO 2 PCR primers for ARE I II PSA 459 121 and ARE III PSA 4288 3922 have been described previously.

Cells were analysed essentially as described. Primary antibody staining was performed with the indicated dilutions AR 441 1 500 and LSD1 1 5000 . Sub cellular localisation was visualised using secondary Alexa Fluor 488 and 546 labelled antibodies 1 6000 Molecular Probes . Nuclei were stained with 1 g mlDAPI Roche .

Experiments were performed essentially as described. Immunoprecipitations from extracts of murine testis were performed with either LSD1 antibody or controlrabbit IgG. Western blots were decorated as indicated. Ten percent of testis extract was loaded as input.

GST pull down assays were performed with equal amounts of GST or GST fusion proteins as describedusing buffer containing either 150 mM KCl 0.15 NP40 or 600 mM KCl 0.3 NP40 . Pull downs with sepharose coupled histone H3 tail were performed as describedin 20 mM Tris pH 8.5 150 mM NaCl 0.5 NP40. Ten percent of the in vitro translated proteins were loaded as input.

Northern blot analyses were performed with a Human Multiple Tissue Expression Array and a Human Multiple Tissue Northern Blot BD Biosciences Clontech with an LSD1 specific probe spanning either by 1 741 or by 1 2556 labelled with StripEZ Ambion and hybridized as recommended.

pLV THM control and pLV THM LSD1 were used to produce recombinant lenti viruses to infect LNCaP cells as described. The infected cells were cultured for 72 hours in medium supplemented with 10 dsFCS. 0.3 10cells were plated in a 96 well plate with or without 10M R1881. The cell proliferation Elisa BrDU Colorimetric Assay Roche was performed according to the manufacturer s instructions. The experiments were repeated three times in quadruplet.

The invention describes the following assays to test LSD1 inhibitors in their ability to block LSD1 function and thereby AR.

