---

title: System and method for enabling pairing of a companion device with a mate device for performing a companion device
abstract: A method is provided in one example embodiment and includes establishing a connection between a first client and a messaging fabric of a conductor element associated with a video system; receiving a request to perform a companion service with a second client; authenticating the first client via a client directory based on an identifier associated with the first client; receiving a pair message from the first client for the second client; and verifying whether the two clients can be paired in order to perform the companion service. Companion service commands can be authorized/policy checked and resulting commands on the second client may appear as-if they had been triggered locally.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374619&OS=09374619&RS=09374619
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09374619
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140128
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 505 358 entitled VIDEOSCAPE SYSTEM PLATFORM filed Jul. 7 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 543 754 filed Jul. 6 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CROSS SCREEN EXPERIENCES AND COMPANION DEVICE SERVICES IN A VIDEO ARCHITECTURE Inventors Flemming S. Andreasen et al. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and is incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application.

This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to a system and a method for cross screen experiences and companion device services in a video architecture.

Service providers face difficult challenges in the context of providing video services for a diverse group of end users. Many service providers are gearing up to implement their TV Everywhere initiatives which can offer a level of freedom being demanded by consumers today. One aspect of this demand includes the ability to access content from any device at any time and from any location. Providing an effective integration of various technologies while accounting for specific device options specific location possibilities specific user preferences specific content and programming etc. is a significant challenge for service providers.

A method is provided in one example embodiment and includes establishing a connection e.g. wired wireless etc. between a first client and a messaging fabric of a conductor element associated with a video system receiving a request e.g. any suitable message to perform a companion service with a second client e.g. a set top box . The method also includes authenticating the first client via a client directory based on an identifier associated with the first client. The identifier can include any suitable identification mechanism. The method also includes receiving a pair message from the first client for the second client e.g. set top box and verifying whether the second client e.g. set top box and the first client can be paired in order to perform the companion service. The companion service can be associated with any activity operation function or task involving video data.

In more particular implementations a particular pair message can be forwarded to a set top box i.e. the second client to complete a pairing between the first client and the second client. In addition the method could also include receiving a particular message associated with the first client acting as a remote control for the second client and verifying the pairing of the first client and the second client in order to perform at least one remote control activity for the video system. A particular service can be invoked by a device in order to support a particular feature of the video system.

The method can also include receiving a service message via the conductor element where the service message is associated with a pairing activity associated with the second client e.g. a set top box . A particular service can issue companion service commands after the pairing activity has been authorized. In addition the method can include invoking a cloud session state manager in order to identify a channel being watched on the video system. The actual connection can establish an Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP based service.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram of a video system configured for providing an integrated video platform in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Video system may include a plurality of backend systems which may further include a number of provider systems that are inclusive of subscriber management and billing. In addition video system may include a media suite for content and metadata management which may be coupled to a media acquisition for content processing. A video system enabled services element may be suitably linked to media suite media acquisition and a content distribution .

Additionally any number of networks may suitably couple content distribution to a video system home as well as an on the go component which may be associated with wireless activities roaming WiFi end user devices more generally etc. In one particular example being illustrated in a 3G 4G and WiFi network along with a cable xDSL FTTH network are being used to facilitate the activities of the video platform. also includes a conductor video control plane which can be suitably coupled to media acquisition content distribution and an end to end system management . Note that the larger blocks of e.g. conductor content distribution media suite video system enabled services vide system home media acquisition etc. can be viewed as logical suites that can perform certain activities of the present disclosure. Note that their functions responsibilities tasks capabilities etc. can be distributed in any suitable manner which may be based on particular video needs subscription models service provider arrangements etc.

In accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure video system is configured to offer service providers a number of valuable features. For example video system is configured to extend video services to a variety of devices ranging from smartphones tablets iPads personal computers PCs to set top boxes e.g. n screen cable systems etc. Additionally this platform of video system is configured to extend video services to any IP access network un tethering . The architecture can also provide unified content management between different devices different networks and different video services. Additionally the architecture can provide a flexible platform and infrastructure that enables existing services to be modified and for new services to be developed by the service provider by leveraging a combination of Internet protocol IP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP web services Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP and a workflow enabled infrastructure with open interfaces and both client and server software development kits SDKs . An initial set of applications can also be provided e.g. linear time shift on demand etc. .

Additionally the architecture can use adaptive bitrate ABR to facilitate video service delivery independent of the access . This allows a video offering that can be targeted at consumers which can offer Anywhere Any Access that may be tied to subscription models. In addition video system can readily support unicast and multicast delivery with in home cache optimizations for more efficient use of access network resources. This can include support for content protection thereby enabling delivery of all content not merely a subset of content . This also includes support for existing critical features such as Emergency Alert Service Blackouts Geo Blocking etc. Support is also provided for advertising including dynamic ad support and for legacy devices primarily existing endpoint devices e.g. set top boxes STBs for a smooth migration of existing infrastructure.

The architecture can also support hybrid optimizations for access providers to implement e.g. in order to enhance their offering . In this context hybrid is referring to the combination of traditional service provider video delivery technologies e.g. MPEG transport stream over quadrature amplitude modulation QAM in a cable hybrid fiber coaxial HFC environment with pure IP video delivery technologies e.g. HTTP based adaptive bitrate .

In operation communication system can support the following end user oriented use cases 1 content discovery 2 linear services for managed IP STBs and unmanaged devices where migration for existing linear services is supported equally 3 on demand services for managed IP STBs and unmanaged devices where migration for existing on demand services is supported 4 time shifted TV services e.g. in the form of Cloud DVR time shifted TV across screens for managed IP STBs and unmanaged devices where migration for existing DVR services is supported 5 cross screen experience in the form of companion devices where a companion device e.g. iPhone can be used as a remote control for another video system device e.g. IP STB or the companion device can enhance the viewing experience through value add context or programming aware metadata information e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER feeds additional program detail hyperlinks etc. 6 screen shifting where the user is able to change playback to another device e.g. from iPad to TV pause and resume programs across devices or have multi room DVRs 7 dynamic advertising and 8 value add applications which enable service providers to offer value add user experiences e.g. such as FACEBOOK connect capabilities access to Olympics Applications etc. .

Note that video services have traditionally been provided in a siloed fashion. Linear TV services were provided by Cable Telco or Satellite companies over legacy non IP based infrastructures with service offerings that expanded to include time shift on demand and DVR type services. Services were offered to managed devices e.g. a STB on managed networks only e.g. QAM based cable . As IP infrastructure with relatively high bandwidth became more prevalent a second wave of IPTV based video systems appeared. A common theme in these systems is an IP multicast based linear service real time streaming protocol RTSP based on demand etc. service and a session initiation protocol SIP IP multimedia subsystem IMS plus RSTP control plane and or an HTTP web services plus RTSP based control plane coupled with metadata management e.g. electronic program guide EPG towards the end users typically based on HTTP web services. IPTV content delivery was generally assumed to be a fixed bitrate over managed networks either supporting resource reservations to satisfy certain levels of service or simply having plentiful bandwidth .

A new 3rd wave of systems is now being considered with a design principle of any content to any device anywhere at any time. HTTP adaptive bitrate enables this model in the content delivery domain however for a service provider to provide premium video services a control plane infrastructure is still needed. The existing IPTV based control plane architecture and solutions fall short in a number of areas needed to support the above 3rd wave systems in today s web based environment including 1 a lack of consideration and service for HTTP ABR based content delivery which does not have the notion of a network or cloud session e.g. for troubleshooting diagnostics statistics policy enforcement upper limit on sessions etc. and 2 the HTTP Simple Object Access Protocol REpresentational State Transfer REST SOAP REST based video control plane architectures fall short in several areas. This includes an inability to work through NATs e.g. to support notification type services to clients emergency alerts operator initiated messaging diagnostics etc. . This also includes bidirectional communication support and a way for cloud initiated communication to target households users and or specific devices are missing e.g. eventing and authentication authorization considerations around such cloud initiated communication is missing as well. In addition such models work as request response protocols in the client server computing model and they are generally not session stateful which is needed for some premium video services. These HTTP based services do not retain information or status of each user for the duration of multiple requests. Therefore when HTTP based web services are deployed over a large cluster it is difficult to track the user s progress from one request to another unless a centralized database is used to track it.

The SIP IMS based video control planes provide persistent connections with bidirectional support and notification services which solve several of the shortcomings of the HTTP based control planes. However the SIP IMS based architectures fall short in several other areas as well e.g. they are defined only for SIP IMS based services to be invoked and advertised . In today s world ease of integration with HTTP and XML based services is important. Additionally SIP IMS is based on a call setup model whereby services are invoked as part of an incoming or outgoing session setup. Events within or outside of a session are supported as well. As a result of this IMS service creation composition and interaction relies on the notion of IMS filter criteria which are statically defined trigger points used to determine which of several IMS application servers AS to invoke.

Interaction between multiple application servers is handled by the under specified Service Capability Interaction manager SCIM function. It is in many ways a more modern version of the classic Intelligent Network IN model used for telephony systems in the past. In the 3rd wave video system and today s increasingly web based technology world users and services both need to be considered as first class citizens that are equally capable of initiating service to each other. Furthermore an open framework of orchestrating such services is important including responses to events in the system.

With SIP IMS being designed around the need to establish a communication session e.g. a call it is not well suited to exchange structured data as part of a session by itself. For example support for large messages is an issue over user datagram protocol UDP and SIP proxies are in general not intended to have frequent or substantial amounts of data sent through them. However several video control plane services need that capability e.g. remote scheduling companion device experiences interactive diagnostics etc. .

Certain embodiments of video system can offer an overall video services control plane architecture that addresses the above shortcomings. In accordance with one example implementation of the present disclosure video system can resolve the aforementioned issues and potentially others to provide a combination of cloud network and client capabilities that enables the service provider to offer its subscribers any content over any network to any device. The present disclosure provides the first complete instantiation of an end to end video platform solution supporting the full complement of managed video service offerings.

Within the platform of the functional components are logically grouped into different suites. Extending beyond the core platform are components that are assumed to be preexisting within either the service provider or the content provider networks. Specifically service provider Business Support Systems Operations Support Systems SP BSS OSS represents a set of preexisting business and operations support systems. 3rd party web services are cloud based services that the solution leverages but are preexisting and can be leveraged in place. Content provider control systems are preexisting or future systems that support the delivery of content into secondary distribution channels. A collection of different networks both service provider managed networks and other networks can also be provided that play a role in the delivery of the video service. Finally the architecture can also include existing on demand and linear content sources representing both the origination of that content from the content provider broadcaster as well as the acquisition of that content within the service provider s network. The solid and dashed lines in this area represent the distinction between content metadata and content essence the actual media files etc. .

The cloud paradigm can extend the media and acquisition suites with enhanced capabilities for linear and time shifted TV. The communication platform also introduces conductor and conductor services providing an extensible service creation environment common service capabilities as well as massively scalable and persistent client connection technologies. Three additional suites are also provided which includes the ad suite represented as Advanced Advertising in that provides a core set of advanced advertising capabilities that integrates a web ad decision server capabilities. In addition an application suite e.g. Video System Enabled Services is provided that builds on the base soft client capability provided in QuickStart. It also provides a base set of core and value add end user applications across both managed and unmanaged devices. A management suite e.g. end to end system management is also provided for client and endpoint management it facilitates management of the overall video platform suite of products.

Video system also builds on the distribution suite capabilities for the efficient delivery of both on demand and linear content to client devices. The content delivery network CDN capability can be responsible for taking content that originates from the Content management media processing functions and delivering it to clients at scale efficiently and with minimal end to end latency. The CDN can provide a high degree of deployment flexibility scaling from more centralized deployments to highly distributed deployments using centralized root caching tiers multiple intermediate caching tiers and edge caching tiers close to the client devices. CDN also provides intelligent content routing capabilities that are tied through network proximity to the real time routing details of the underlying network elements. This enables the service provider to efficiently deliver content from the best edge cache resource even during periods of network impairment.

The architecture also covers soft clients as well as managed devices. Specifically the architecture includes a video system home gateway as well as a video system IP STB. The home gateway as an extension of the network provides valuable linkage between managed and unmanaged devices within the home and the service provider cloud and network infrastructures. The IP STB as well as all soft clients running on unmanaged devices is designed to work across managed and unmanaged network environments. Soft client capabilities can be extended to include linear and time shift capabilities as well as leverage the evolving set of cloud and network APIs exposed by the various suites to provide a high quality end to end user experience.

Video system presents a migration to an all IP based video and services infrastructure spanning the full service content life cycle from the video content and metadata acquisition to content and metadata preparation distribution and delivery to the end user. The video system encompasses a set of diverse products suites with heterogeneous interfaces and implementations for these functions. The overall system follows a Service Oriented Architecture SOA development framework and hence supports multiple individual services which are used via service orchestration and workflow engines. Each of the suites provides a set of well defined services and associated interfaces and it is with these services that end user services are eventually provided. End user services can be defined as including one or more services that users interact with to provide a user visible service. For example a linear TV service provides features and logic to enable users to watch a particular channel in accordance with their subscription. The linear TV service does so by use of a number of underlying video system services and suites. Application suite services play a particular role in terms of providing application logic for one or more services. Users could be machines as well e.g. for machine to machine oriented type services .

In certain implementations of the present disclosure video system can leverage a set of HTTP based RESTful web services to support basic on demand TV everywhere capabilities. These HTTP services exposed to end points by both the media suite and the distribution suite can provide proven scalability resiliency and extensibility. In operation the video platform can use a mix of HTTP RESTful web services and XMPP based services providing a powerful combination to support the enhanced capabilities for linear time shift TV VOD companion and value add applications.

Turning to illustrates a number of example content sources e.g. YouTube Starz HULU etc. . Devices and services can be divided into client facing and cloud facing components. Client facing components and services can involve interaction with a client. Cloud facing components and services can include everything else. In either case services provide well defined XMPP and or HTTP based interfaces. XMPP based services can rely on the conductor infrastructure and the features it provides e.g. service virtualization or persistent connections whereas HTTP based services in the video system can follow a standard web services model.

Clients may interface directly with a service or they may interact with a front end application service which in turns orchestrates and invokes other services e.g. by use of the flexible workflow engine provided by service orchestration . Similarly services may also rely on backend application logic to implement higher level applications services which again may rely on service orchestration of other services. On the client itself there may be one or more applications installed and applications may contain add on modules. In either case the client side application interacts with the video system cloud via one or more service invocations e.g. Create Recording to schedule an nDVR recording which is supported by a service or application front end via HTTP or XMPP .

In operation the media suite unified CMS entitlement metadata broker LSMS EPG manager etc. the distribution suite which is the content distribution that includes the service router service engine edge cache etc. the advertising suite and the application suite can expose services that clients consume. The client facing interfaces can be HTTP based and for the video system they can continue to be HTTP based or they as well as other applications and services may be HTTP and or XMPP based. In either case efficient mechanisms can be used for clients to initially discover these services select the instance of the component that can best fulfill service requests from that client and manage the allocation of finite resources across all instances of that service. The video system can offer a unified service discovery capability through the conductor s service directory for both XMPP and HTTP based services. For XMPP based conductor services service virtualization can be provided natively by the conductor infrastructure.

Video system users can subscribe to the video services through their service provider. One or more users and devices may be associated with an account for service and associated with each is a profile to enable personalization of the video services. Devices range from IP set top boxes to soft clients on a variety of devices such as PCs MAC devices tablets smartphones etc. and all of those devices may be used either on the service provider s access network home or another network e.g. on the go . Users may also have a video system home gateway which could be a residential NAT firewall type device with additional video features such as media caching and multicast to unicast conversion to optimize the end user video experience and to reduce use of access network resources especially when users have multiple devices accessing the same content . Cable and Telco xDSL Fiber etc. access networks are supported as managed networks where quality of service and policy control enable a better end user video experience than for unmanaged access network that provide an over the top experience instead.

Users and devices can connect to the video system infrastructure using primarily persistent XMPP connections and stateless HTTP based web services. The conductor provides the XMPP infrastructure to which clients users devices connect via the connection manager and have their identity authenticated thereby enabling a secure and personalized service experience. The conductor provides a basic set of connection management messaging and core services and additional services enablement features to allow for new services to be introduced. Services and applications can connect to the conductor thereby enabling them to use the core services provided by the conductor as well as exchange messages with each other through the XMPP messaging infrastructure.

Core services provided by the conductor include the client directory which contains user and device profile information and the publish subscribe subsystem PubSub which enables listeners to subscribe to and be notified about events generated by publishers for a given topic. The session state manager tracks state associated with sessions e.g. a video session when watching a movie and the resource broker allows resources e.g. network bandwidth to be associated with that session. The application suite provides a set of supporting front end and backend application logic to deliver the linear and time shift TV nDVR on demand soft client download for certain platforms value added applications and a web portal e commerce platform for the on demand storefront.

Metadata associated with this content can be served by the metadata broker which also serves metadata associated with program guides and nDVR recordings. Managed content can be acquired transcoded encrypted and delivered by the service provider s infrastructure acquisition suite whereas the unmanaged content processing and delivery is the responsibility of the aggregator. Assets from both can be seamlessly merged into unified offers and presented to the user in a common catalog. In the case of managed content the client can interact with the media suite entitlement management server. If the user is entitled to the content the content resolution server CRS function decides on one or more suitable formats to serve up the content for the client in question the formats may in turn depend on certain content policies controlled by the content policy function. In the case of unmanaged content the client will interface directly to the aggregator s backend entitlement delivery systems at the time of asset playback.

Before a user is permitted to watch certain content whether it is linear or on demand the content can be made available. Unmanaged content is neither cached nor processed by the video system network but is instead delivered over the top OTT as any other IP traffic. However managed content can be acquired from the content provider and possibly transformed in a multitude of ways. The acquisition suite serves this role by re encoding the content in possibly several different formats codecs resolutions etc. to support a multitude of end user devices and the adaptive bitrate delivery of said content. VOD transcoding is done by a transcode manager linear transcoding can be done by the digital content manager DCM and media processor and ABR formatting can be handled by the media encapsulator. Encryption for DRM can also be provided. The acquisition suite and media suite coordinate with each other to determine what content to acquire when the content is available and hence can be published in a catalogue and which DRM to apply. Once the content has been transformed as appropriate it can be stored on the origin server function and the content is then available for distribution to endpoints. The content can then either be pushed out to the distribution suite pre fetching or the distribution suite will retrieve and cache it when needed.

In spite of the use of HTTP ABR some content may be served by multicast the home gateway can translate between multicast delivery and unicast HTTP ABR to optimize access network and CDN distribution suite use. The multicast manager advertises statically and potentially dynamically provisioned multicast sessions defining the multicast cloud that determines the multicast senders as well as the coverage for that multicast tree. The virtual origin service VOS embeds capabilities such as encapsulation time shifted representations recording for nDVR and multicast origination for multicast cache fill the service router function enables efficient service routing request handling across multiple VOS instances e.g. to use a topologically close by VOS .

Based on the program guide information VOD catalog etc. the client can have an HTTP URL for the content it wishes to acquire e.g. a TV channel a movie on demand etc. . When the client issues a request for said content it will need to go through an entitlement check to determine if it s allowed to obtain the content requested. The entitlement check is performed by the media suite which interfaces to the DRM license servers to obtain DRM ecosystem specific license keys that enable decryption of the DRM protected content.

The ad suite placement broker accepts advertising placement queries e.g. in the form of an Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers SCTE 130 Part 3 PlacementRequest message from any initiating source be it a client or the cloud . The placement broker gathers additional targeting criteria relative to both the content and the viewer from a combination of internal and external sources. For content specific metadata the media suite s metadata broker and or a 3rd party metadata source are queried using the SCTE Content Information Service CIS interface. User or content viewer information is obtained from a combination of internal and or 3rd party sources using the SCTE Subscriber Information Service SIS interface. Example SIS metadata sources include video system s geolocation service conductor s client directory service indirect access to the service providers subscriber data or an external 3rd party such as Experian.

One or more placement opportunities a more generalized form of a traditional linear element that includes metadata describing decision ownership policy ad unit structure can be obtained from a component implementing the SCTE Placement Opportunity Information Service POIS interface. Based on ownership and provisioned placement service criteria the placement broker applies the appropriate metadata visibility policies and routes the individual placement opportunities to the correct advertising decision service. The advertising decision service may be a component of a 3rd party campaign manager or it may be the ad suite s web ADS router. The web ADS router forwards decision requests to a 3rd party web ad decision server such as DoubleClick or Freewheel using their native request format and receives an Interactive Advertising Bureau IAB Video Ad Serving Template VAST 2.0 response. The placement broker aggregates the sum of advertising placement decisions and returns the result to the initiating source using a SCTE PlacementResponse message. The initiating source then intermixes the entertainment content and the selected advertising assets using the appropriate delivery platform specific assembly mechanism for example manifest manipulation for HLS or player control for client HSS Smooth etc. .

The placement reporter acquires media session events including placement playout session viewer and remote control events filters these events according to the provisioned placement service policies and forwards the appropriate confirmation reports to the individual advertising decision services. The web ADS router provides an additional forwarding capability proxying to the VPAID format. The placement reporter also archives the data for later analysis and provides report generation support.

The management suite fulfills the management aspects FCAPS of the video system. The device manager performs basic hardware and firmware device management for video system managed devices i.e. set top boxes and home gateways whereas the endpoint manager supports overall management for all video system clients in the form of application download provisioning event collection and reporting etc. . Domain managers are subsystem managers for each product suite. A domain manager is either located in the management suite itself or it is a product in another suite that fulfills a dual role. Finally the video system manager of managers MoM can offer an overall manager for the various management components of the platform.

The video system architecture defines several third party elements that are not associated with any particular suite. Within the video system box the Authentication Authorization Single Sign On AA SSO function provides a common backend AA and SSO solution that allows for common credentials and single sign on between different suites and interfaces. The accounting function enables storage of accounting data e.g. for quality statistics and the DOCSIS and Telco Policy functions provide policy server functions for Cable and Telco access networks. Outside the video system box a number of third party elements for 3rd Party web services service provider BSS OSS Content Provider CP Control Systems as well as EPG schedule information VOD and Linear Content Sources Integrated Receiver Decoders IRD Emergency Alert System EAS and Public CDNs are defined as well.

Turning to the example infrastructure associated with present disclosure the clients of can be associated with devices customers or end users wishing to receive data or content in video system via some network. The term client is inclusive of devices used to initiate a communication such as a receiver a computer a set top box an IRD a cell phone a smartphone a tablet a remote control a personal digital assistant PDA a Google droid an iPhone and iPad or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio video media or data exchanges within video system . The clients may also be inclusive of a suitable interface to the human user such as a display a keyboard a touchpad a remote control or other terminal equipment. The clients may also be any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating an exchange within video system . Data as used herein in this document refers to any type of numeric voice video media or script data or any type of source or object code or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another.

The networks of can represent a series of points or nodes of interconnected communication paths for receiving and transmitting packets of information that propagate through video system . The networks can offer a communicative interface between sources and or hosts and may be any local area network LAN wireless local area network WLAN metropolitan area network MAN Intranet Extranet WAN virtual private network VPN or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment. A network can comprise any number of hardware or software elements coupled to and in communication with each other through a communications medium.

In one particular instance the architecture of the present disclosure can be associated with a service provider digital subscriber line DSL deployment. In other examples the architecture of the present disclosure would be equally applicable to other communication environments such as any wireless configuration any enterprise wide area network WAN deployment cable scenarios broadband generally fixed wireless instances fiber to the x FTTx which is a generic term for any broadband network architecture that uses optical fiber in last mile architectures and data over cable service interface specification DOCSIS cable television CATV . The architecture of the present disclosure may include a configuration capable of transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP communications for the transmission and or reception of packets in a network.

Any of the suites backend systems the conductor end to end system management etc. can be representative of network elements that can facilitate the video management activities discussed herein. As used herein in this Specification the term network element is meant to encompass any of the aforementioned elements as well as routers switches cable boxes iPads end user devices generally endpoints gateways bridges STBs loadbalancers firewalls inline service nodes proxies servers processors modules or any other suitable device component element proprietary appliance or object operable to exchange content in a network environment. These network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

In one implementation these network elements can include software to achieve or to foster the video management activities discussed herein. This could include the implementation of instances of domain manager . Additionally each of these elements can have an internal structure e.g. a processor a memory element etc. to facilitate some of the operations described herein. In other embodiments these video management activities may be executed externally to these elements or included in some other network element to achieve the intended functionality. Alternatively these network elements may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate with other network elements in order to achieve the video management activities described herein. In still other embodiments one or several devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Turning to illustrates a companion device architecture associated with the present disclosure. This particular configuration includes a conductor which includes a client directory and a companion device broker . Also provided in this particular illustration is an application suite which includes linear time shift TV nDVR ondemand value add etc. A companion device pairs with a mate device to perform companion services. The companion signaling flows between companion device and mate device via companion device broker . The companion signaling in the form of application signaling may also flow from application suite to a companion device broker .

In general terms the platform of can offer a cross screen and companion device architecture which enables service providers to orchestrate and securely support cross screen and companion device services. The infrastructure can support consistent and centrally managed authentication authorization and policy control of such services. It can also provide a general framework which enables any combination of legacy and new devices to engage in the services. A taxonomy is defined for such services along with descriptions about how each of the resulting classes can be supported. This is performed in a way that minimizes the impact on existing service implementations and furthermore can be positioned within an existing user identity and service authorization framework.

This platform can enable service providers to orchestrate and securely support cross screen and companion device services instead of current ad hoc device centric or legacy centric approaches. Additionally it can provide for a consistent user experience for all types and combinations of devices including extensions to migration scenarios. It can also provide a manageable infrastructure that enables simple and consistent authenticated and authorized use of such services. It can also provide a taxonomy with a consistent strategy for supporting different types of cross screen and companion device services with minimal impact on the basic service implementations.

Turning to the infrastructure of this platform the companion device reflects the device a companion service is started from e.g. an iPad . The mate device is the device for performing a companion service with the companion device e.g. an IP STB . The pairing activity is the act of associating a companion device with a mate device for performing a companion service. The companion device broker is a trusted intermediary entity within the video control plane that enables and controls pairing of devices for cross screen and companion services.

In terms of cross screen and companion device services these can be divided into several categories. For the paired companion device use cases these involve a companion device and a mate device pairing with one another. Two cases can exist 1 paired client use cases where the companion device and the mate device should pair and exchange information with each other to support the use case e.g. the remote control use case and 2 paired cloud use cases where the companion device and the mate device should pair and access shared information in the cloud however they do not need to exchange information with each other to support the use case e.g. real time updates would be a use case . Unpaired companion device use cases can involve a companion device and or a mate device however the two do not pair with one another. Remote DVR scheduling would be an example of this issue.

For paired companion device services the companion device broker plays a central role by 1 acting as a trusted intermediary that enables pairing of the companion and mate device 2 enabling the exchange of information between the companion and mate device in paired client scenarios and 3 facilitating access to and correlation of cloud based information between the companion and mate device.

Device pairing can be limited to devices and users associated with a single account as reflected in the client directory. The client directory also enables a companion device use case to determine the type capabilities and availability of a companion device and a mate device. For example in the case of a remote control the companion device should pair with a STB device that is currently active. The exact instance may involve user interaction e.g. select from a list of active devices listed on the companion device .

For the paired client use cases the companion device architecture can be based on the companion device sending relevant messages to the mate device and the mate device then uses those messages to trigger mate device actions as if they had been triggered locally on the mate device to begin with. For example for the remote control use case the companion device may send a tune to channel 123 or play on demand video xyz message to the mate device and the mate device can perform the operations just as if the mate device had triggered those operations locally to begin with. By using this principle existing services both client based and cloud based services are impacted minimally if at all and support for the service on the companion and mate device is simplified.

Note how the companion device broker acts as the trusted intermediary to both authorize and support this communication between the two devices. Conductor XMPP can be used as the interface since it provides a persistent connection to the companion and mate device and further also supports communication initiated in either direction direct communication may be supported as an optimization as well however issues related to NAT traversal security etc. complicate such a model . The companion device broker can perform authorization checks before allowing two devices to pair. For example screen shifting of a movie started by one user may not be allowed by all other users in the account. The presence infrastructure provided by the conductor enables a companion device to try to pair with active mate devices only. In order to facilitate troubleshooting and traceability whenever a command is issued by the mate device as a result of a companion device message the command in question should convey that information e.g. including the identity of the companion device .

Some companion device use cases can involve sharing or exchanging of cloud based information between service instances for the companion device and the mate device. For example complementary social media may involve the companion device to know the program being watched on the mate device. To enable such use cases the corresponding application suite component can interact with the companion device broker to determine the paired devices. The companion device broker can again also act as a trusted intermediary within the cloud this time to allow a companion device to obtain information about the program currently being watched on the mate device other more general channel presence solutions may be possible however they can involve further privacy and authorization considerations . Similarly a screen shift scenario may have the companion device broker access information in a video control plane session manager for the mate device session e.g. a paused TV show and enable it to be used on the companion device to resume playing there possibly in a different resolution . For the screen shift fling scenario the real time aspect of the shift will likely use a direct exchange of information between the two devices to synchronize the shift.

Companion device use cases apply to migration scenarios as well. A migration scenario may involve a cloud rendered UI provided by the cloud on behalf of legacy STBs that have not been fully enhanced with IP video support. In such a scenario a migration cloud component acts on behalf of the legacy STB. The migration component contains the logic to support new and advanced services it receives inputs from the legacy STB performs the application logic and renders the resulting viewable output for display on the legacy STB. This enables new advanced features to be provided for such legacy STBs as well. The cross screen and companion device architecture and approach described above can be applied in such scenarios by having the migration component provide the companion or mate device logic similar to that described above. The legacy STB can include support for the paired client scenario since it still should tune to the relevant channels. The migration component infrastructure that generates the cloud rendered UI would support the companion device use cases as well.

Turning to is a simplified flowchart illustrating example activities associated with device pairing of the present disclosure. The flow may begin at where Client C a tablet C a phone and C a set top box associated with account A are all connected to the conductor infrastructure. At Client C seeks to perform a companion service with a set top box in the household. At Client C looks for an active set top box in the client directory. The client directory authenticates and authorizes C based on its JID and returns C as a currently active set top box associated with the account. At Client C attempts to pair with C by sending a pair message to the conductor companion device broker. The companion device broker authenticates C and looks up C and C in the client directory to verify the two devices are authorized to pair with each other. If not the companion device broker rejects the message. Otherwise at the companion device broker forwards the pair message to C to complete the device pairing. The message forwarding leverages C s persistent connection with the conductor infrastructure. Once successfully paired C and C each note the pairing relationship and are ready to perform companion services as shown at .

Turning to is a simplified flowchart illustrating example activities associated with a paired client companion service of the present disclosure. The flow may begin at where Clients C tablet and C set top box are paired. At C seeks to act as a remote control for C and sends a tune to Channel 123 message to C. The message is sent from C via the conductor infrastructure to the companion device broker. At the companion device broker verifies that C and C are paired and if so forwards the companion service message to C via the conductor Infrastructure. Optionally additional policy checks may be performed by the companion device broker to determine the message handling. At Client C receives the tune to Channel 123 message and starts to tune to channel 123 just as if it had received that command locally. Client C can safely do so since the message was received via the trusted companion device broker and the two devices had already paired. Optionally Client C may perform additional local policy checks.

Turning to is a simplified flowchart illustrating example activities associated with paired cloud service companion service activities of the present disclosure. The flow may begin at where Service Sa on companion device C e.g. tablet seeks service information about mate device C e.g. set top box . Service Sa may for example seek to display information related to a program being watched on C. At Service Sa contacts the companion device broker via the conductor infrastructure to either pair with mate device C or join the paired session between C and C.

At the companion device broker authenticates Sa based on its JID and performs an authorization check to determine if Sa is allowed to pair with C and or join the established pairing between C and C. If allowed Sa is now paired with C and can issue companion service commands as shown at . At companion service commands may be directed to C client centric or a cloud component. For example a cloud session state manager service may have information about the currently watched channel on C. Sa issues a get current channel to the companion device broker. The companion device broker understands that Sa is already paired with C performs an authorization check for the requests and if allowed contacts the session state manager to obtain current channel information. This is being illustrated by . Note that C and Sa would normally not be allowed to perform such a request directly to the session state manager the companion device broker acts as a trusted intermediary to authorize the request. Alternatively the request could be directed to the client client centric approach again leveraging the companion device broker as a trusted intermediary.

As identified previously a network element can include software e.g. domain manager to achieve the video management operations as outlined herein in this document. In certain example implementations the video management functions outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible non transitory media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor processors provided in any of the suites in conductor in media gateway anywhere in legacy home video system home in backend systems in end to end system management etc. . In some of these instances a memory element provided in any of the suites in conductor in media gateway anywhere in legacy home video system home in backend systems in end to end system management etc. can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store instructions e.g. software code etc. that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. The processors can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by the processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

Any of these elements e.g. the network elements etc. can include memory elements for storing information to be used in achieving the video management operations as outlined herein. Additionally each of these devices may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform the video management activities as discussed in this Specification. These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element random access memory RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that with the examples provided above interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that video system and its teachings are readily scalable and further can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of video system as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

It is also important to note that the steps in the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within video system . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by video system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

