---

title: Electronic device for multiple radio access and method thereof
abstract: An electronic device and a method for simultaneously receiving a multimedia service over multiple radio access networks are provided. The electronic device includes a plurality of network interfaces for accessing a multimedia service provider, and a multi-interface handler for controlling to receive a multimedia service content divided, from the service provider via the network interfaces respectively, if part of the content is completely received via one of the network interfaces, to receive the remaining content re-divided via the network interfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565719&OS=09565719&RS=09565719
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09565719
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140424
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Apr. 25 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial numbers 10 2013 0046124 and a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 20 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0019934 the entire disclosures of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Recent electronic devices provide various multimedia services to users. For example the users can access an Internet Protocol IP based network through the electronic device and then receive from a service provider not only a text and an image but also various multimedia services such as a video call service a multimedia messaging service a content service a broadcasting service a game service and a chatting service.

The electronic devices implement mobility to allow the users to use the multimedia service at any place. The mobile electronic device is a so called mobile device. For example the electronic devices such as a smart phone a Personal Data Assistant PDA a notebook and a digital camera is capable of wirelessly accessing the IP based network.

The user can receive the multimedia service over any one network connected. For example the electronic devices can receive the multimedia service by accessing a 3Generation 3G network or a Long Term Evolution LTE network. For example the electronic devices can receive the multimedia service by accessing a wireless Local Area Network LAN such as Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi . For example the electronic devices can receive the multimedia service by accessing a wireless network such as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . As such the electronic devices can receive the multimedia service over only one radio access network.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device and a method for receiving a multimedia service over multiple radio access networks at the same time.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an apparatus and a method for rapidly receiving multimedia service data via a plurality of data interfaces.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an apparatus and a method for stably receiving multimedia service data via a plurality of data interfaces.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an apparatus and a method for adaptively receiving multimedia service data via a plurality of data interfaces or a single data interface.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a plurality of network interfaces for accessing a multimedia service provider and a multi interface handler for controlling to receive a multimedia service content divided from the service provider via the network interfaces respectively if part of the content is completely received via one of the network interfaces to receive the remaining content re divided via the network interfaces.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for operating an electronic device is provided. The method includes controlling to receive a multimedia service content divided from a multimedia service provider via a plurality of network interfaces and if part of the content is completely received via one of the network interfaces controlling to receive the remaining content re divided via the network interfaces.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure can employ a device having a communication function. The electronic device can include at least one of for example a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a digital audio player a mobile medical appliance a camera and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses e textiles an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory an electronic tattoo and a smartwatch .

The electronic device can employ a smart home appliance having the communication function. The smart home appliance can include at least one of for example a television a Digital Versatile Disc DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TeleVision TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync AppleTV Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key and a digital frame.

The electronic device can employ at least one of medical appliances e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT X ray ultrasonicator a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an in vehicle infotainment marine electronic equipment e.g. marine navigation device and gyro compass avionics a security device a vehicle head unit an industrial or home robot an Automatic Teller s Machine ATM of a financial company and a Point Of Sale POS of a store.

The electronic device can employ at least one of furniture or part of building structure having the communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and gauges for water electricity and radio wave. Those skilled in the art shall understand that the electronic device of the present disclosure is not limited those devices.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure allows a multimedia service provided over multiple radio access networks at the same time rather than the multimedia service provided over only one radio access network in the electronic device such as mobile device. While running an application for the multimedia service the electronic device allows for the rapid receiving of data or content requested by the application via a plurality of data interfaces. Alternatively while running the application for the multimedia service the electronic device can stably receive the data requested by the application. Alternatively while running the multimedia service application the electronic device can adaptively receive the data requested by the application via the multiple data interfaces or the single data interface.

The multimedia service indicates a service offered by a service provider if the user runs a particular application app in the electronic device. The multimedia service data indicates data offered by the service provider. The multimedia service data may be referred to as contents or a content. The multimedia service can include various services for example but not limited to a text and image service a video call service a multimedia messaging service a content service a broadcasting service a game service and a chatting service. If the user runs the multimedia service application in the electronic device the multimedia service can be provided by the service provider connected to an Internet Protocol IP based network such as the Internet. While the present disclosure can be applied to various electronic devices it is applied to the mobile device such as a smartphone by way of example. The term user can represent a person or a device e.g. artificial intelligent electronic device who or which uses the electronic device.

As a cellar network and the smartphone advance more contents are serviced to the smart phone. In particular a high quality video content can include hundreds of MegaBytes MB and may require tens of Megabits per second Mbps . Most of the mobile devices can access the network using multiple Radio Access Technologies RATs . For example the mobile device includes a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi interface for accessing a wireless Local Area Network LAN . The mobile device also includes a cellular interface for accessing a 3Generation 3G network or a Long Term Evolution LTE network. Some devices may include more interfaces such as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . However the user can use only one interface to get the content from the IP based network such as Internet at a specific time. When the user wants to download files of hundreds of MBs or to view high quality videos of hundreds of Mbps the single data interface may not satisfy the required speed. In this case the download speed can be lowered and the video can be interrupted frequently.

Hence the present disclosure provides a platform structure of the mobile device using the multiple radio interfaces at the same time and algorithms for optimizing the download speed and load balance of the multiple interfaces. The present disclosure allows the user to use the multiple radio data interfaces concurrently without changing applications used in the mobile device. The present disclosure provides the algorithms for the speed and the load balance of the multiple interfaces so that the user can download his her intended content at the rate corresponding to a sum of the speeds of the available interfaces.

An electronic device can include a plurality of network interfaces for accessing a multimedia service provider which provides at least one multimedia service according to different radio access technologies and a multi interface handler for if an access request for the multimedia service is received from at least one application dividing the access request to multiple requests and distributing the multiple requests to the interfaces.

The multi interface handler can include a request handler for generating the multiple requests which request to receive multimedia service data from the service provider via the interfaces at the same time in response to the access request and distributing the multiple requests to the interfaces. The multi interface handler can further include a data manager for reassembling the data received via the network interfaces in response to the multiple requests and forwarding the reassembled data to the application.

Data chunks to be received via the interfaces according to the multiple requests can differ from each other. A size of the data chunks to be received via the interfaces according to the multiple requests can be fixed or variable.

The multi interface handler can further include an interface balancer for detecting a download speed of the data received via the interfaces and adjusting a download ratio of the interfaces according to the detection result.

The request handler can request an initial chunk of the multimedia service data via the interfaces at a first time point. The request handler can request the remaining data chunk for the multimedia service to be received via the interfaces at a second time point after the first time point according to the download ratio adjusted based on the download speed detected by the interface balancer of the initial chunk received via the interfaces.

The interface balancer can detect whether the download ratio of the interfaces changes and readjusts the download ratio of the interfaces.

The request handler can identify at least one available interface among the interfaces in response to the access request and generate and provide to the identified interface the multiple requests which request to receive multimedia service data from the service provider via the interfaces at the same time.

The multi interface handler can further include an interface controller for if the access request is received controlling to generate the multiple requests according to the size of the multimedia service data. If receiving the access request the interface controller can control to generate the multiple requests according to the ratio of the received multimedia service data having a content size smaller than a preset threshold.

The multi interface handler can further include an interface controller for if a speed for providing the reassemble data to the application is smaller than a receiving speed of one of the interfaces controlling to receive the multimedia service data from the service provider via only one interface.

A method for operating an electronic device can include receiving an access request for at least one multimedia service provided by a multimedia service from at least one application and dividing the access request to multiple requests and distributing the multiple requests to a plurality of interfaces which access the service provider according to different radio access technologies.

The dividing of the access request to the multiple requests can include generating the multiple requests which request to receive multimedia service data from the service provider via the interfaces at the same time in response to the access request and distributing the generated multiple requests to the interfaces.

The method can further include reassembling the data received via the network interfaces in response to the multiple requests and forwarding the reassembled data to the application.

Data chunks to be received via the interfaces according to the multiple requests can differ from each other. A size of the data chunks to be received via the interfaces according to the multiple requests can be fixed or variable.

The method can further include detecting a download speed of the data received via the interfaces and adjusting a download ratio of the interfaces according to the detection result.

The distributing of the generated multiple requests to the interfaces can include requesting an initial chunk of the multimedia service data via the interfaces at a first time point and requesting the remaining data chunk for the multimedia service to be received via the interfaces at a second time point after the first time point according to the download ratio adjusted based on the download speed detected by the interface balancer of the initial chunk received via the interfaces.

The method can further include detecting whether the download ratio of the interfaces changes and readjusting the download ratio of the interfaces.

The distributing of the generated multiple requests to the interfaces can include identifying at least one available interface among the interfaces in response to the access request and generating and providing to the identified interface the multiple requests which request to receive multimedia service data from the service provider via the interfaces at the same time.

The method can further include if receiving the access request controlling to generate the multiple requests according to the size of the multimedia service data. The controlling can include if receiving the access request controlling to generate the multiple requests according to the ratio of the received multimedia service data having a content size smaller than a preset threshold.

The method can further include if a speed for providing the reassemble data to the application is smaller than a receiving speed of one of the interfaces controlling to receive the multimedia service data from the service provider via only one interface.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an Input Output I O interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus can be a circuit for interlinking the above stated components and transferring communications e.g. control messages between the components.

The processor can receive an instruction from the other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display and the communication interface via the bus interpret the received instruction and process an operation or data according to the interpreted instruction.

The memory can store the instruction or the data received from or generated by the processor or the other components e.g. the I O interface the display and the communication interface . For example the memory can include programming modules including a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . The memory can include a multi interface processing module for the multi radio access operation or function . The programming modules can be implemented using software firmware and hardware or a combination of at least two of them.

The kernel can control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used to execute the operation or the function of the other programming modules e.g. the middle ware the API the application or the multi interface processing module . The kernel can provide an interface allowing the middleware the API the application or the multi interface processing module to access and to control or manage the individual components of the electronic device .

The middleware can relay data between the API the application or the multi interface processing module and the kernel . For the work requests received from the application the middleware can control the work request e.g. scheduling or load balancing by giving priority of the system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API which is an interface for the application to control the kernel or the middleware can include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control image processing or text control.

The application can include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MSM application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring an exercise or a blood sugar or an environment information application e.g. an application for providing air pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or substantially the application can relate to information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device A . The information exchange application can include for example a notification relay application for relaying particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application can relay the notification information of the other application e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environment information application of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device A . Additionally or substantially the notification relay application can receive and provide the notification information from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device A to the user. The device management application can manage e.g. install delete or update at least part of the function e.g. power on power off of the external electronic device or some components or display brightness or resolution control of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device A communicating with the electronic device the application running on the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a messaging service provided by the external electronic device.

The application can include an application designated based on an attribute e.g. a type of the electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device A . For example if the external electronic device is a digital audio player the application can include a music play application. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application can include a health care application. The application can include at least one of the application designated in the electronic device and the application received from the external electronic device e.g. a server or the electronic device A .

The multi interface processing module provides the multi radio access function so as to rapidly receive the multimedia service data over the multi radio access networks via the plurality of the data interfaces at the same time. The multi interface processing module allows the multimedia service data to be stably received via the plurality of the data interfaces. The multi interface processing module allows the multimedia service data to be adaptively received via the plurality of the data interfaces or the single interface.

The I O interface can forward the instruction or the data input from the user through an I O device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to for example the processor the memory and the communication interface via the bus . For example the I O interface can forward the data of the user s touch input through the touch screen to the processor . For example the I O interface can output the instruction or the data received from the processor the memory and the communication interface via the bus through an I O device e.g. a speaker or a display . For example the I O interface can output voice data processed by the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display can display various information e.g. multimedia data or text data to the user. The communication interface can connect the communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device A or the server . For example the communication interface can communicate with the external device by accessing the network using wireless communication or wired communication. The wireless communication can include at least one of for example Wi Fi BlueTooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS WiBro or Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . The wired communication can include at least one of for example Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The network can be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network can include at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and a telephone network. A communication protocol e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol between the electronic device and the external device can be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

The application can be provided from the server and installed in the electronic device . If the application is executed the corresponding multimedia service of various multimedia services of the server can be provided. Herein while only one application is installed in the electronic device various applications can be installed. The application can be executed by the user and request the multimedia service data during the execution.

If the request is received from the application the multi interface handler generates multiple sockets corresponding to the interfaces through . That is the multi interface handler distributes a particular multimedia service data request to a plurality of requests and provides them to the interfaces through respectively. This is to simultaneously receive or download the multimedia service data via the interfaces through . In so doing a data scope requested to the interfaces through is different in order to rapidly or stably receive the multimedia service data via the interfaces through . The multi interface handler can be implemented using a platform to be explained further below.

The interfaces through connect the electronic device to the server over multiple radio access networks through . For example one of the interfaces through can be a Wi Fi interface. In this case the corresponding network can be the wireless LAN including an Access Point AP . For example one of the interfaces through can be a cellular interface. In this case the corresponding network can be the 3G network or the LTE network including a Base Station BS or an evolved Node B eNB . The server can be a service provider for providing the multimedia service over the IP based network such as Internet.

Referring to the electronic device is booted up and the interfaces are activated or deactivated in operation S. The electronic device determines whether the Wi Fi interface is activated in operation S. The electronic device determines whether the Wi Fi interface is available in operation S. In operation S and operation S the electronic device determines whether the cellular data interface is activated. If the Wi Fi interface is not activated in operation S and the cellular data interface is activated in operation S the electronic device confirms that only the cellular data interface is available in operation S. If the Wi Fi interface is activated in operation S but not available in operation S and the cellular data interface is activated in operation S the electronic device confirms that only the cellular data interface is available in operation S. In contrast if the cellular data interface is not activated in operation S the electronic device confirms that there is no available interfaces in operation S.

If the Wi Fi interface is activated in operation S and available in operation S and the cellular data interface is not activated in operation S the electronic device confirms that only the Wi Fi interface is available in operation S. In contrast if the cellular data interface is activated in operation S the electronic device confirms that both of the Wi Fi interface and the cellular data interface are available in operation S.

Typically the terminal can use only one interface. For example if the user selects the Wi Fi and accesses the AP the cellular interface of the corresponding terminal is deactivated. In contrast if the Wi Fi is disconnected or the user deactivates the Wi Fi function the cellular interface of the corresponding terminal is activated. However if the user activates the multi radio access function of the present disclosure the multiple interfaces are available simultaneously. For example the interfaces can include the Wi Fi interface and the cellular data interface of the LTE.

Referring to if the electronic device is booted up in operation S and the multi radio access function is set in operation S a default interface e.g. the Wi Fi interface and the other interface e.g. the LTE interface are activated in operation S. If the multi radio access function is not set in operation S only the default interface is activated in operation S.

The multiple interfaces are activated if the multi radio access function is activated and the other interface is activated at the same time. In this case a delay due to the interface activation can be eliminated by activating the multiple interfaces in advance before using the multiple e.g. two interfaces.

Referring to two interface connections are maintained until the user deactivates the multi radio access function. If the user activates the multi radio access function S in S an icon S of the multi radio access function at the top of the display of the electronic device is activated as shown in . In so doing if the multiple e.g. two interfaces are connectable icons S and S indicating the corresponding interfaces are activated together as shown in . If the content is used using the multi radio access function the top icons S S and S are replaced by the icon S alone of the multi radio access function as shown in . If the content use is finished the original icons are recovered as shown in .

Referring to the method activates the multi radio access function in operation S as shown in . The method generates and displays the multi radio access icon in operation S as shown in . The method determines whether the other interface is connectable in operation S. If the other interface is connectable the method connects the other interface and activates the corresponding icon in operation S as shown in . In operation S the method receives a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP content request from the user. In operation S the method determines whether the requested content satisfies HTTP 1.1 and a content size. If the requested content satisfies the HTTP 1.1 and the content size the method displays only the multi radio access icon in operation S as shown in . In operation S the method downloads the requested content through the multiple interfaces at the same time. If the content use is finished the method recovers the original icon display in operation S as shown in .

Alternatively the multiple e.g. two interfaces are activated concurrently if the multi radio access function of the present disclosure is activated and then the content is used. In this case the default interface and the other interface are activated together to utilize the multiple interfaces which can reduce current consumption for the interface activation.

Referring to even if the user activates the multi radio access function S in S the other interface is not activated and only the multi radio access icon S is additionally activated . To use the content using the multi radio access function the other interface is activated and the icon at the top of the display of the electronic device is replaced by the multi radio access icon S as shown in . If the content use is finished the original icons are recovered as shown in .

Referring to the method activates the multi radio access function in operation S as shown in . The method generates and displays the multi radio access icon in operation S as shown in . In operation S the method receives the HTTP content request from the user. In operation S the method determines whether the requested content satisfies HTTP 1.1 and the content size. If the requested content satisfies HTTP 1.1 and the content size the method determines whether the other interface is connectable in operation S. If the other interface is connectable the method activates the multiple interfaces all together and displays only the multi radio access icon in operation S as shown in . In operation S the method downloads the requested content through the multiple interfaces at the same time. If the other interface is not connectable the method downloads the content through the single interface i.e. the default interface in operation S. If the content use is finished the method deactivates the other interface and recovers the original icon display in operation S as shown in .

Referring back to the request handler intercepts an Internet visiting request and distributes the request to the data interfaces through . Hence the different chunks of the requested data are received from the different networks through via the different data interfaces through . For example if the platform receives a HTTP GET request from the application the request handler checks the available data interfaces and confirms that both of the Wi Fi and cellular data interfaces are available. The request handler generates the socket for each interface through divides the HTTP GET request into a plurality of HTTP range requests and distributes the socket bind range requests to the interfaces through . Next the chunks of the request data are received at the interfaces through from the networks through . For example the request handler distributes the range requests of the socket bind to the Wi Fi interface and the cellular data interface. Next the requested data chunks are received simultaneously over the Wi Fi wireless LAN and the cellular network.

The data manager buffers and reassembles the data received from the different sockets bound to the different data interfaces through . Since the data are received from the networks through at the same time the data of the different chunks may not arrive in the same sequence as the original sequence of the requested content. Accordingly the data manager pushes the received data to a buffer not shown and reassembles the buffered data in the same sequence as the original sequence of the requested data. To request the content responded by the application the data manager polls the data from the buffer and returns the data to the application .

The download speed of the data interfaces through can vary during the download. The interface balancer detects the download speed of the data interfaces through and allocates the different download chunks to the data interfaces through for the sake of better download speed and load balance.

Referring to in the electronic device the application sends to the platform a request for downloading particular multimedia service data content from the server in operation S. In operation S the request handler of the platform generates the multiple range requests e.g. three range requests in response to the request from the application and provides the multiple range requests to the server . The multiple range requests are sent to the server via the corresponding interfaces to and networks as shown in .

In operation S the data manager of the platform receives the multi range data e.g. three range data corresponding to the multiple range requests from the server . The multi range data is received from the server via the corresponding network and interface as shown in . In operation S the data manger of the platform reassembles the received data in the original sequence. In operation S the data manger of the platform provides the reassembled data to the application .

Such multiple range requests receive the different chunks of the multimedia service content via the multiple interfaces. Various algorithms distribute the requested content by dividing the requested content into the chunks so as to receive them via the different data interfaces.

A best effort algorithm exhibits the fastest download time. The total download time can be short whereas the download speed can vary rather than be constant. This algorithm is suitable for file downloading which corresponds to or . are modified from .

A stable speed algorithm achieves a stable download speed throughout the entire downloading period. The download speed in each short interval may not change often. While the total download speed can be much greater than the speed of the single interface it may not be a maximum speed. This algorithm is suitable for video audio game playing and other applications requiring the stable throughout which corresponds to .

Referring to the method determines whether the multi radio access function is set in operation S. If the multi radio access function is set the method downloads the content via the multiple interfaces in operation S. In contrast if the multi radio access function is not set the method downloads the content via the single default interface in operation S. For example the multiple interfaces can include two interfaces of the Wi Fi interface and the LTE interface. In this case the Wi Fi interface can be set to the default interface and the LTE interface can be set to the other interface.

Referring to the method determines whether the multi radio access function is set in operation S. If the multi radio access function is set the method determines whether the multi radio access function is suitable in operation S. If the multi radio access function is suitable the method downloads the content via the multiple interfaces in operation S. In contrast if the multi radio access function is not set or the multi radio access function is not suitable the method downloads the content via the single default interface in operation S.

If the Wi Fi speed satisfies the application in the mobile device the Wi Fi interface is sufficient to download the data. In this case the multi radio access function is not suitable.

Alternatively for a very small content requested the Wi Fi interface alone can download the data. In this case the multi radio access function is not suitable.

Alternatively the multi radio access function is not suitable if the server does not support the multi radio access. The server does not support the multi radio access function if the HTTP range request is not supported if the HTTP range request requires a particular signature of the server if only one HTTP session is allowed per user if the server supports the connection only to a particular interface or if the server transmits different contents per interface.

Referring to the method determines whether the multi radio access function is set in operation S. If the multi radio access function is set the method determines whether the multi radio access function is suitable in operation S. If the multi radio access function is suitable the method downloads the content via the multiple interfaces in operation S. In contrast if the multi radio access function is not set or the multi radio access function is not suitable the method downloads the content via the single default interface in operation S.

Meanwhile if it is necessary to switch to the single interface in operation S while downloading the content via the multiple interfaces the method downloads the content via the single interface in operation S. The switch to the single interface is required if a speed difference between the two interfaces exceeds a certain ratio e.g. 4 times or 5 times during the download of the multiple interfaces.

Referring to the application in the electronic device sends the request e.g. the HTTP GET request for downloading the content from the server in operation S.

In operation S the request handler in the platform intercepts the request and sends a HEAD request for obtaining only content information rather than a content body. For example in HTTP the request handler sends the HTTP HEAD request. The HEAD request is sent to the server .

In operation S the request handler receives a HEAD response from the server . For example in the HTTP the request handler receives the HTTP HEAD response.

In operation S the request handler may send a response to the application in reply to the received HEAD response. The response is sent to the application if the adequate HEAD response is not received for example if the requested content is not identified or the connection is unavailable. In this case the process is finished.

In operation S if receiving the adequate HEAD response the request handler identifies all of the available data interfaces generates the socket for each data interface and connects the generated socket to the target server which provides the requested data. For example the mobile device generates the socket for the Wi Fi interface to access the server over the Wi Fi wireless LAN and the socket for the cellular data interface to access the server over the 3G LTE network.

In operation S based on the downloading algorithms to be explained the request handler sends the range request in each socket to get the different chunks of the content. For example in the HTTP the request handler sends the HTTP range requests including a scope or range field of the request header to the server . The scope and the size of each chunk are determined by the downloading algorithm to be explained.

In operation S the application requests the content data which continues until the first chunk of the content is received.

If receiving the range data in response to the range request in operation S the data manager reads and stores the response data in the buffer.

Since the received data is simultaneously received from the different sockets the data may not be received in the adequate order. In operation S the data manager reassembles the data in the same sequence as the original sequence of the requested content. In operation S the data manager returns the reassembled data to the application .

In operation S the interface balancer recalculates the download rate of the interfaces. If the speed ratio of the data interfaces changes or any data interface is activated or deactivated the interface balancer recalculates the size and the scope of the chunk to download according to the algorithm to be explained and notifies the request handler of the range request including the size and the scope of the new download chunk.

In operation S regardless of whether the size and the scope of the download chunk are recalculated after one socket receives every response data of the range request the request handler sends the other range requests to the server for the next download.

Referring to in operation S the request handler generates the sockets for the data interfaces. After the sockets are generated and connected the request handler sends the range request for each socket in operation S. The range request includes the scope indicating the first chunk to download and the first chunk can be set to a small chunk.

If first data of the first chunk is downloaded in operation S the interface balancer estimates the download speed of the data interfaces and distributes the other chunks of the download content to the data interfaces based on the download speed ratio in operation S. The interface balancer divides the remaining content chunks based on Equation 1. SUM Equation 1

Pi denotes the size of the next chunk to download for the data interface socket i W denotes the total size of the requested content N denotes the size of the first chunk and I denotes the number of the available data interfaces. Si denotes the download speed for the data interface socket i. For example if the total content is 100 MB the size of the first chunk is 5 MB and two data interfaces are available 10 MB 5 MB 2 of the total content 100 MB is received via the two interfaces according to the first range request in operation S and accordingly it is necessary to additionally download the remaining content chunk 90 MB. In so doing according to the ratio of the particular interface speed Si to the total speed SUM Si of the two interfaces the size of the chunk to download via the interface i is determined among the other download content 90 MB. The download speed Si is calculated based on Equation 2. Equation 2

Bi denotes the number of the bytes downloaded from the data interface socket i at a detection time T.

In the first chunk T denotes the time taken to download the first content of the first chunks. In other cases T indicates the time interval of the interface balancer for detecting the speed. The request handler sends a range request for the remaining chunk in operation S.

In operation S through operation S the interface balancer detects the interface availability of the data interface sockets and the download speed. The download speed is calculated based on Equation 2.

If one interface is not available in operation S the interface balancer aborts the current range request in operation S divides the rest chunks to download via the one interface based on Equation 1 and distributes the chunks to the other active interfaces.

If a new interface is available or the deactivated interface is available in operation S the interface balancer aborts the continuous transmission via all of the sockets in operation S divides the remaining content based on the speed ratio and commences the download according to the new range request.

The interface availability can be determined based on the download speed affecting the data throughput a signal strength and other parameters. For example if the download speed of the interface is smaller than a threshold the interface is considered as being unavailable. If a Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI of the radio interface is smaller than a threshold the interface is considered as being unavailable.

In operation S the interface balancer determines whether the download speed ratio of the interfaces changes. The speed ratio can vary based on Equation 3. Equation 3 indicates that the speed ratio of the data interfaces changes a lot and thus the current content distribution is not appropriate. In this case the interface balancer aborts the socket downloading in operation S and divides the remaining content based on the new speed ratio of Equation 1 in operation S. 0 0 Threshold or 0 0 Threshold Equation 3

Si and Sj denote the download speed of the data interface sockets i and j if the current chunk division is determined and Sit and Sjt denote the download speed of the interface sockets i and j according to the recent speed detection.

Referring to in an interval S the first chunk of the requested content is downloaded from the interfaces and the speed ratio is calculated.

In an interval S the remaining content chunk is divided based on the speed ratio and downloaded from the interfaces according to the range request. During the download the data from the first interface or the default interface is read by the application whereas the data from the second interface or the other interface may not be read. This is because data in between the data scope received via the first interface and the data scope received via the second interface may not be received yet. At this time the speed for the application to read the data is the same as the interface 0.

In an interval S all of the data are downloaded and the application can read the data from a memory buffer. The speed for the application to read the data is as fast as a memory copy speed.

While the best effort algorithm can request the data by dividing the data into the small pieces as shown in it may divide the total data into the number of the interfaces and receive the data distributed per interface in order to minimize overhead of the initial connection caused in the range request transmission. For example if two interfaces include the default interface and the other interface the whole data can be divided and received in two portions including the former chunk and the latter chunk. If one data chunk distributed is downloaded completely ahead of the other chunk the other data chunk is re divided and received all together. This algorithm relates to the methods of and receives the data non sequentially unlike the other algorithms which sequentially request and receive the data.

Referring to in operation S the application in the electronic device sends the request e.g. the HTTP GET request for downloading the content from the server .

In operation S the request handler of the platform intercepts the request and sends the full request for the whole content to the sever .

In operation S the request handler receives the response and the data for the full request from the server .

In operation S the request handler forwards the response and the data of the full request to the application . The request handler can determine the requested content size and the range request availability by receiving the full request response. If the requested content size exceeds a preset size and the server supports the range request the request handler calculates the latter chunk size to receive via the other interface with respect to the remaining content excluding the content received via the default interface in association with the interface balancer or a speed watchdog in operation S. The calculation can be performed based on Equation 4 to be explained.

In operation S the request handler sends the range request corresponding to the latter chunk size of the remaining content calculated to the server via the other interface.

The data manager receives the data of the range request from the server in operation S and reads and stores the received data in its internal storage e.g. a buffer in operation S.

In operation S the request handler determines which one of the former chunk and the latter chunk of the remaining content calculated in operation S is completely downloaded.

If either the former chunk or the latter chunk of the remaining content requested is completely downloaded the data manager forwards the downloaded data to the application in operation S.

If the whole data is not completely downloaded in operation S through operation S are performed for the remaining content not downloaded which are the same as operation S through operation S and thus a description thereof are not repeated herein for conciseness in explanation.

Referring to if the application issues the HTTP request the request handler generates the socket for the default interface in response to the request operation S. In operation S the request handler forwards the HTTP request to the server via the default interface. The request requests the whole content.

In operation S the request handler determines the requested content size and the range request availability by receiving the HTTP response of the HTTP request. If the requested content size exceeds the preset size and the server supports the range request the request handler requests the interface balancer or the speed watchdog to calculate the range request scope. In so doing the default interface continues the download.

In operation S the interface balancer determines the latter chunk size to receive via the other interface with respect to the remaining content excluding the content received via the current default interface. In so doing the interface balancer calculates the latter chunk size to receive via the other interface by use of the speed ratio R of the two interfaces based on Equation 4. Chunk size Remaining Content Size 1 Equation 4

Without the measured speed or the speed information obtained from the previous download R 1 is determined and thus of the remaining data is determined as the latter chunk size.

In operation S the request handler generates based on the chunk size determined in operation S and sends the HTTP range request to the server via the other interface.

If either the former chunk or the latter chunk of the remaining content requested is completely downloaded in operation S the data manager forwards the downloaded data to the application or temporarily stores the downloaded data in its internal storage e.g. the buffer in operation S. For example if the former chunk of the remaining content is completely downloaded the data manager forwards the front chunk of the downloaded content to the application in operation S. For example if the latter chunk of the remaining content is completely downloaded the data manager which cannot directly forward the latter chunk of the downloaded content to the application temporarily stores the downloaded data in the internal storage e.g. the buffer .

If the whole data is not completely downloaded operation S the interface balancer splits the other chunk being downloaded and receives the latter split chunk via the interface which completes the download in operation S. In so doing the partition rate is equal to Equation 4 whereas the interface balancer does not split the content under a particular condition. For example if the download of the corresponding content chunk via the allocated interface is about to end within a particular time e.g. within 4 seconds the interface balancer does not further divide the content. For example if the remaining content size is smaller than a particular size e.g. 1 MB the interface balancer does not split the content any more.

If the whole data is completely downloaded operation S the download of the requested content is finished in operation S.

In the multi interface handler splits the whole content into the number of the interfaces e.g. two requests the content to the server and receives the distributed data via the respective interfaces. Thus the download of the whole content is completed. The content to be downloaded via the interfaces may be distributed once as shown in or twice as shown in according to the progress of the download.

Referring to the multi interface handler forwards the download request Full Request for the whole content to the server in operation S. If receiving the response of the download request from the server in operation S and operation S of the multi interface handler divides the remaining content to download based on the interfaces and forwards the range request to the server so as to download the corresponding content via the corresponding interface. In operation S the multi interface handler receives and processes the response of the Full Request. If the remaining content is divided to be downloaded via the two interfaces and the multi interface handler forwards the range request to the server to download the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the remaining content via the second interface being the other interface in operation S.

In operation S and operation S the multi interface handler receives and processes the response of the Full Request and the range request. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the former chunk of the remaining content received according to the Full Request from the server via the first interface . If the content is received in operation S until the start of the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the requested remaining content in operation S the reception is aborted. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the latter chunk of the remaining content corresponding to the range request for the latter chunk of the remaining content from the server via the second interface .

The multi interface handler forwards the remaining content downloaded via the first interface and the second interface to the application in operation S and the download via all of the interfaces is complemented.

Referring to the multi interface handler processes to download the initial chunk data of the whole data via the first interface during period S and to forward the downloaded data to the application during period S and processes to download the front chunk of the remaining content via the first interface and to forward it to the application in during period S. The multi interface handler processes to download via the second interface and store the latter chunk of the remaining content of the whole content in the internal storage in during period S. S indicates the time for the application to read the data downloaded via the first interface and is equal to the download time of the first interface . Period S indicates the time for the application to read the data downloaded and stored via the second interface .

As above it is advantageous to minimize the number of sessions newly created in the content download via the multiple interfaces. Hence the interface e.g. the second interface for the new download downloads the latter chunk of the remaining content and the interface e.g. the first interface in the process of the download continues the download of the former chunk of the remaining content without creating a new session.

Referring to the multi interface handler forwards the download request Full Request for the whole content to the server in operation S. If receiving the response of the download request from the server as in operation S and operation S of the multi interface handler distributes the remaining content to download to the interfaces and forwards the range request to the server so as to download the corresponding content via the corresponding interface. In operation S the multi interface handler receives and processes the response of the Full Request. If the remaining content is distributed to the two interfaces and the multi interface handler forwards the range request to the server so as to download the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the remaining content via the second interface being the other interface in operation S.

In operation S and operation S the multi interface handler receives and processes the response of the Full Request and the range request. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the former chunk of the remaining content received according to the Full Request from the server via the first interface . If the content is received in operation S until the start of the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the remaining content requested in operation S the reception is aborted. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the latter chunk of the remaining content corresponding to the range request for the latter chunk of the remaining content from the server via the second interface .

If completing the download via either the first interface or the second interface the multi interface handler re distributes the remaining content to download to the interfaces and forwards the range request to the server so as to receive the corresponding content via the corresponding interface in operation S. If the remaining content is re distributed to the two interfaces and the multi interface handler forwards the range request to the server so as to download the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the remaining content re distributed via the interface which completes the download in operation S in operation S. Referring to the second interface completes the download first and the new range request is forwarded to the server via the second interface in operation S.

The multi interface handler receives and processes the response of the range request in operation S. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the latter chunk of the re distributed remaining content corresponding to the range request for the latter chunk of the re distributed remaining content from the server via the second interface .

Referring to the whole content S is divided such that the former chunk data S and the latter chunk data S are downloaded via the first interface and the second interface respectively. In this case the download of the latter chunk data S of the content S via the second interface is completed first and the download via the first interface is continued. Next the multi interface handler re divides the remaining content S such that the remaining content after the download via the first interface is distributed to and downloaded via the first interface and the second interface . The former chunk data S of the re divided content S is downloaded via the first interface and the latter chunk data S of the re divided content S is downloaded via the second interface .

Referring to the multi interface handler forwards the download request Full Request for the whole content to the server in operation S. If receiving the response of the download request from the server as in operation S and operation S of the multi interface handler distributes the remaining content to download to the interfaces and forwards the range request to the server so as to download the corresponding content via the corresponding interface. In operation S the multi interface handler receives and processes the response of the Full Request. If the remaining content is distributed to the two interfaces and the multi interface handler forwards the range request to the server so as to download the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the remaining content via the second interface being the other interface.

In operation S and operation S the multi interface handler receives and processes the responses of the Full Request and the range request. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the former chunk of the remaining content received according to the Full Request from the server via the first interface . If the content is received in operation S until the start of the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the remaining content requested in operation S the reception is aborted. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the latter chunk of the remaining content corresponding to the range request for the latter chunk of the remaining content from the server via the second interface .

If completing the download via either the first interface or the second interface the multi interface handler re distributes the remaining content to download to the interfaces and forwards the range request to the server so as to receive the corresponding content via the corresponding interface in operation S. If the remaining content is re distributed to download via the two interfaces and the multi interface handler forwards the range request to the server so as to download the other chunk e.g. the latter chunk of the remaining content re distributed via the interface which completes the download in operation S in operation S. In the first interface completes the download first and the new range request is forwarded to the server via the first interface in operation S.

The multi interface handler receives and processes the response of the range request in operation S. In operation S the multi interface handler receives the latter chunk of the re divided remaining content corresponding to the range request of the latter chunk of the re divided remaining content from the server via the first interface .

Referring to the whole content S to download is distributed to the former chunk data S and the latter chunk data S to be downloaded via the first interface and the second interface respectively. In this case the download of the former chunk data S of the content S via the first interface is completed first and the download via the second interface is continued. Next the multi interface handler re distributes the remaining content S such that the content remaining after the download via the second interface is downloaded via the first interface and the second interface . The former chunk data S of the re divided content S is downloaded via the second interface and the latter chunk data S of the re divided content S is downloaded via the first interface .

Referring to in operation S the multi interface handler downloads the content via the two interfaces including the first interface being the default interface and the second interface being the other interface. In operation S the multi interface handler determines whether the speed difference of the two interfaces exceeds a certain ratio during the download. That is the multi interface handler determines whether the download speed of the first interface is times is a real number greater than the download speed of the second interface . This determination can be performed by the interface balancer of the multi interface handler . If the download speed of the first interface is a times greater than the download speed of the second interface the multi interface handler aborts the download via the second interface in operation S and switches the download only to the first interface of the higher speed in operation S. For example if the download speed of the first interface is four or five times greater than the download speed of the second interface the multi interface handler uses only the first interface in order to prevent the speed loss.

Referring to the download speed of the first interface is greater than the download speed of the second interface and the speed ratio exceeds a certain ratio the single interface switch is applied to the first interface . While the content S is divided and downloaded into two chunks the data received via the second interface until the speed ratio is checked is ignored and the first interface receives the data to the end.

Referring to in operation S the multi interface handler downloads the content via the two interfaces including the first interface being the default interface and the second interface being the other interface. In operation S the multi interface handler determines whether the speed difference of the two interfaces exceeds the certain ratio during the download. That is the multi interface handler determines whether the download speed of the first interface is times is a real number smaller than the download speed of the second interface . This determination can be performed by the interface balancer of the multi interface handler . If the download speed of the first interface is times smaller than the download speed of the second interface the multi interface handler aborts the download via the first interface in operation S. The multi interface handler generates a new session to the second interface in operation S and downloads the content only via the second interface of the higher speed in operation S. For example if the download speed of the first interface is or times smaller than the download speed of the second interface the multi interface handler uses only the second interface in order to prevent the speed loss.

Referring to if the download speed of the first interface is smaller than the download speed of the second interface and the speed ratio exceeds a certain ratio the single interface switch is applied to the second interface . The content S is divided and downloaded into two chunks and the download via the first interface aborts from the point of the speed ratio check in S. The download session of the second interface continues and finishes the download in S. A new session is generated in the second interface to concurrently download the chunk received via the first interface in S.

If the socket connection of each interface is lost as the interfaces are disconnected for example outside the communication area e.g. a Wi Fi zone in the multi radio access operation the session is handed over to the other interface and the download of the remaining content chunk is continued. The socket for the application to directly read the data can be referred to as a main socket and the socket for storing the data in the storage e.g. the buffer can be referred to as the other socket.

Referring to the multi interface handler determines the disconnection of the main socket in operation S. In operation S the multi interface handler aborts the download of the other socket. In operation S the multi interface handler controls the other socket to take over the download of the main socket. In operation S the multi interface handler controls the other socket to finish the download and then continues its own download. The main socket downloads the former chunk of the data. If the corresponding socket is lost the user may feel that the download is halted. Accordingly if the main socket is lost the other socket stops its download and takes over the front chunk being received by the main socket.

Referring now to the multi interface handler determines that the other socket is disconnected in operation S. In operation S the multi interface handler determines whether the main socket finishes the download. If the main socket finishes the download the multi interface handler controls to the main socket to take over the chunk downloaded by the other socket in S. Since the other socket which downloads the latter chunk of the data stores the data in the storage the user does not feel the download halt though the connection is lost. Thus the main socket finishes its download and takes over the data downloaded by the other socket.

Referring to in operation S the application in electronic device sends the request e.g. the HTTP GET request for downloading the content from the server .

In operation S the request handler of the platform intercepts the request and sends the HEAD request for obtaining only the content information rather than the content body. For example in the HTTP the request handler sends the HTTP HEAD request. The HEAD request is sent to the server .

In operation S the request handler receives the HEAD response from the server . For example in the HTTP the request handler receives the HTTP HEAD response.

In operation S the request handler may send the response to the application in reply to the received HEAD response. The response is sent to the application if the appropriate HEAD response is not received for example if the requested content is not confirmed or the connection is unavailable. In this case the process is finished.

In operation S if receiving the appropriate HEAD response the request handler identifies all the available data interfaces generates the socket for each data interface and connects the generated socket to the target server which provides the requested data. For example the mobile device generates the socket for the Wi Fi interface to access the server over the Wi Fi wireless LAN and the socket for the cellular data interface to access the server over the 3G LTE network.

In operation S based on the downloading algorithms to be explained the request handler sends the range request in each socket to get the different chunks of the content. For example in the HTTP the request handler sends the HTTP range requests including the scope or range field of the request header to the server . The scope and the size of each chunk are determined by the downloading algorithm to be explained.

If receiving the range data in response to the range request in operation S the data manager reads and stores the response data in the buffer.

Since the data is received simultaneously from the different sockets the data may not be received in the adequate order. In operation S the data manager reassembles the data in the same sequence as the original sequence of the requested content. In operation S the data manager returns the reassembled data to the application .

In operation S the interface balancer checks the availability of the interfaces and notifies the result to the request handler .

In operation S according to the availability of the interfaces the request handler sends the other range requests to the server for the next download.

Referring to in operation S the request handler generates the sockets for the data interfaces. After the sockets are generated and connected the request handler sends the range request of each socket in operation S. The range request for the sockets can include the scope for downloading the fixed size chunk.

If the certain chunk is completely downloaded in operation S the request handler calculates the next chunk to download in operation S and sends the range request for the next chunk in operation S. The next chunk to download is calculated if any interface is available in operation S. The next chunk to download is calculated based on Equation 5. Range Request From byte 1 byte MIN 1 1 Equation 5

N denotes an index of the chunk to download PL denotes the size of the fixed chunk and L denotes a length of the whole content to download.

In operation S and operations S through S the interface balancer detects the interface availability of the data interface sockets.

If one interface is not available in operation S the interface balancer aborts the download of the unavailable interface in operation S and sets the remaining content to download via the unavailable interface to the next chunk to download in operation S. Hence every time the other available interface completes the download of the chunk requested to itself it also downloads the remaining content which is to be downloaded originally by the unavailable interface.

If a new interface is available in operation S the interface balancer calculates the next chunk to download based on Equation 5 in operation S and sends the range request for the calculated next chunk in operation S to thus download the next chunk via the available interface.

The interface availability can be determined based on the download speed affecting the data throughput the signal strength and other parameters. For example if the download speed of the interface is smaller than the threshold the interface may be considered as being unavailable. If the RSSI of the radio interface is smaller than the threshold the interface may be considered as being unavailable.

As such the application is executed in the electronic device the corresponding content can be downloaded concurrently via the multiple data interfaces thus achieving the high speed download. For example the mobile device can rapidly download the content from the server by activating both of the Wi Fi interface and the LTE data interface. According to the present disclosure the download speed can attain the sum of the Wi Fi speed and the LTE speed. Alternatively while the download speed can reach 85 of the sum of the Wi Fi speed and the LTE speed the stable throughput can be guaranteed.

To achieve the high network throughput the mobile devices can activate all the available data interfaces and thus the applications can generate the connections via the available data interfaces. However such a process may not be applied to every occasion. In the first case the application requests a small sized file. For example if the user browses a webpage each HTTP request can get the content of only 10 100 KB. In this case the time overhead for generating the socket in each available interface degrades the speed. In the second case the application reads the low speed socket data for example the user views a low bitrate video. In this case the speed of one data interface may satisfy the application. The other activated interfaces are not beneficial to the user and consumes more power and the data usage over the cellular network incurs more costs. As such if the multiple interfaces are applied to every case it is a waste of energy and money. Thus it is necessary to provide a mechanism for activating the multi interface transmission only if it is required in the electronic device.

Alternatively the electronic device may smartly determine whether to use the multiple interfaces. Hence the mobile device can reduce the power consumption and the data usage over the cellular network if the multiple interfaces are not used and can achieve the rapid transmission if the multiple interfaces are used.

The application manager divides and manages the applications installed in the electronic device in a single interface application group A and a multi interface application group B. If or after the application is installed the application can be set to one of the groups. For example a chatting tool such as Google Talk which does not need to receive a large sized content can be set to the single interface application group A.

If the application of the single interface application group A is executed and the content is requested the application manager sends the request to the single interface . The request is sent to the server via the single interface and the corresponding network and the server provides the corresponding content to the corresponding application of the single interface application group A via the network and the interface . The single interface is the default interface available if the application of the single interface application group A requests to visit the Internet the server .

If the application of the multi interface application group B is executed and requests the content the application manager sends the request to the multi interface handler . In response to the request the multi interface handler generates the multiple requests. The multiple requests are sent to the server via the corresponding interfaces through and the corresponding networks through . In response the server provides the corresponding content to the corresponding application of the multi interface application group B via the networks through and the interfaces through .

As such if the application of the multi interface application group B requests to visit the Internet the request is sent to the multi interface handler via a framework of the mobile device.

The multi interface handler includes an app request size database DB A and an interface controller B. The app request size DB A is a self learning database for recording history of the size of the content requested by the application. The DB A aids in determining whether to use the multiple interfaces if the application transmits and receives the data over the Internet.

If the network visiting request is received at the multi interface handler the interface controller B determines whether to use the multiple interfaces based on the history of the app request size DB A. As the application receives the data the interface controller B determines whether to use the multiple interfaces based on the comparison of the interface socket speed and the application reception speed.

As above the multi interface handler determines whether to use the multi interface transmission. If the application requesting the data is set to the multi interface application group B the multi interface handler intercepts the Internet visiting request from the application. In this case the multi interface application can be used. If the history of the requested content size recorded in the app request size DB A is considerable the multi interface transmission is commenced. Otherwise the single interface transmission is commenced. During the transmission the interface controller B dynamically balances the interfaces.

For example the applications can be set to the single interface application group or the multi interface application group in an interface application group setting as shown in . The App and the App can be set to the single interface application group and the App and the App can be set to the multi interface application group. For example the interface of the application can be set in the application setting as shown in . For the App XYZ the Wi Fi interface or the cellular interface can be set to the single interface. In contrast for the App XYZ both of the Wi Fi interface and the cellular interface can be set to the multiple interfaces. While the single interface or the multi interface of the application is set on the user screen the interface may be set using a voice message.

Referring back to if receiving the Internet visiting request from a particular application in operation S the application manager checks the characteristics of the application in operation S. If the application relates to the single interface group in operation S the application manager uses the interface of the first priority in operation S. That is the application manager sends the received request to the first priority interface. The first priority interface can be used fixedly by the mobile device. For example since there is no fee for the Wi Fi transmission the Wi Fi interface can be used as the interface of the first priority.

In contrast if the application relates to the multi interface group in S the application manager forwards the received request to the multi interface handler in operation S.

Referring to if receiving the request from the application in operation S the interface controller B fetches a history small request ratio from the app request size DB B in operation S. The history small request ratio is a percentage of the history of the requests for the content smaller than the threshold which can be calculated based on Equation 6.

The size threshold is a dynamic value which can be defined by the interface controller B and depends on the network speed of the mobile device. For example the threshold can be the bytes downloaded within hundreds of milliseconds via the Wi Fi interface of the mobile device.

If the history small request ratio is greater than the threshold in operation S the interface controller B determines to use the single interface in operation S. The interface of the first priority can be used. If the interface of the first priority is unavailable the other interface can be used. For example if 90 of the requested content history is smaller than 100 KB this implies that the current request content can be a small sized content. In this case the transmission commences via the single interface.

If the history small request ratio is not greater than the threshold in operation S the interface controller B determines whether to use the multiple interfaces in operation S. If only one interface is available in operation S the interface controller B uses the available interface alone in operation S and periodically determines whether the other interface is available.

If the multiple interfaces are available in operation S the interface controller B uses the multiple interfaces in operation S. That is the multiple interfaces are activated to commence the transmission.

Even if the multiple interfaces are available the use of a particular interface may incur a charge. Hence the user may be inquired about whether to use the multiple interfaces. For example the user screen can be used for the inquiry as shown in .

For another example the voice message may be used to inquire about whether to use the multiple interfaces.

In the process of the multi interface transmission the interface controller B periodically checks an application read speed S and a socket receiving speed S of the first priority interface in operations S and S. The application read speed S is the speed for the application to read the data from the data buffer not shown of the multi interface handler . The socket receiving speed S of the first priority interface is the speed for receiving the data from the first priority interface.

If the Si is smaller than the S in operation S this implies that the application slowly reads the data from the buffer and the first priority interface satisfies the application. In this case the interface handler deactivates the multi interface transmission and downloads the content using only the first priority interface in operation S.

If the S is not smaller than the S in operation S this implies that the application rapidly reads the data from the buffer and the first priority interface cannot satisfy the application. In this case the interface handler activates the multi interface transmission.

Alternatively the multi interface transmission is activated only if it is necessary. If the Wi Fi speed satisfies the application in the mobile device it is sufficient to download the data using only the Wi Fi interface. If the requested content is quite small and the Wi Fi interface is available the data can be downloaded using only the Wi Fi interface. In contrast if the Wi Fi speed does not satisfy the application the cellular data interface can be activated and the data can be rapidly downloaded via both of the Wi Fi interface and the cellular data interface.

As set forth above the present disclosure can receive the multimedia service over the multiple radio access networks at the same time. The multimedia service data can be received rapidly via the plurality of the data interfaces. In addition the multimedia service data can be stably received via the plurality of the data interfaces. Further the multimedia service data can be adaptively received via the multiple data interfaces or the single data interface.

Program instructions for carrying out various operations executed by a computer can be recorded in a non transitory computer readable medium. The non transitory computer readable medium can include alone or in combination the program instructions data files data structures and the like. The program instructions may be designed and constructed especially for the implementations of the present disclosure or well known to those skilled in the art. Examples of the non transitory computer readable storage medium include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as Compact Disc CD Read Only Memory ROM disks and Digital Versatile Discs DVDs magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices specially configured to store and execute the program instructions such as ROM Random Access Memory RAM flash memory and the like. Examples of program instructions include machine code produced by a compiler and high level language code executed by the computer using an interpreter. If all or part of the electronic device network or server is implemented as a computer program the present disclosure can also include the non transitory computer readable recording medium storing the computer program.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

