---

title: Compositions for directed alignment of conjugated polymers
abstract: Conjugated polymers (CPs) achieve directed alignment along an applied flow field and a dichroic ratio of as high as 16.67 in emission from well-aligned thin films and fully realized anisotropic optoelectronic properties of CPs in field-effect transistor (FET).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09315618&OS=09315618&RS=09315618
owner: The Regents Of The University Of Michigan
number: 09315618
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional No. 61 787 114 filed on Mar. 15 2013. The disclosures of the above application are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under DE SC0000957 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Conjugated polymers are emerging active materials for various optoelectronic applications such as organic solar cells thin film transistors light emitting diodes as well as optical and amperometric sensors.Their optical and electronic properties such as absorption emission and conductivity are highly anisotropic due to the 1 dimensional p orbital overlap along the conjugated polymer backbone. In consequence unless conjugated polymers are molecularly and macroscopically assembled and aligned with a well defined structure their interesting properties cannot be fully realized in their device applications.

A commonly used effective method to create macroscopic alignment is to uniformly expose a rigid body having a high aspect ratio to a flow field just as molecular liquid crystals LCs preferentially orient to an applied shear force.Secondary interactions such as aromatic interaction and hydrogen bonding have been proposed as a promising tool to modulate CPs self assembly and possible alignment when they are rationally incorporated into a molecular design.

In reality however the directed assembly and particularly macroscopic alignment of CPs is a challenging task. In solution CPs usually do not have a planar structure due to the low rotational energy barrier along the conjugated backbone. Therefore in spite of their rigid rod like molecular structure CPs do not have good self organization unless they are concentrated.

Individual polymer chains in solution cannot be aligned along a flow field likely because of their small size and tumbling. However in a condensed solution CPs aggregated and once CPs form crystalline domains the reduced aspect ratio and low mobility of the crystallized domain will make CPs alignment along an external flow field unfavorable. Nevertheless there have been efforts to align conjugated polymers by applying an external force.

The Langmuir Blodgett film transfer method has been used to align rod like CPs.However the alignment of the CP by this method is only mediocre which is likely due to the formation of large size assembled CP domains at the air water interface and the relatively weak driving force. By this method the dichroic ratio of 5.0 6.3 was obtained i.e the absorption intensity parallel to the alignment direction was 5.0 6.3 times larger than that perpendicular to the alignment direction.

Uniaxial tensile drawing of a CP within an ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene matrix has been used to achieve a dichroic ratio of 15 in absorption and 20 in emission respectively.However the application of the highly oriented CPs achieved by this method is limited to polarized photoluminescence because the CPs are imbedded in the insulating polyethylene matrix.

Dip coating of CPs on a substrate has also been investigated as an aligning method.The dichroic ratio was not directly investigated but the hole mobility of the resulting film along the dipping direction was measured to be 2 3 times faster than that perpendicular to the dipping direction. Nanoimprinting was also applied to two different CPs to achieve alignment by means of nanoconfinement.The thermotropic liquid crystalline CP showed a dichroic ratio of 12 in emission but the other CP did not show any alignment. The authors concluded that the lack of packing prevented CP from assembly and alignment but did not investigate detailed molecular design requirements. Even though these methods provide a certain degree of CP alignment in order to fully utilize CPs anisotropic electronic and optical properties a molecular design principle of CPs combined with an efficient directed aligning strategy should be devised so that aligned thin conducting CPs layers and lines can be fabricated directly on a substrate.

A molecular design principle of CPs having intramolecular S F interaction and bulky side chains linked to a tetrahedral carbon having a large form factor is established to achieve concentration regulated chain planarization self assembly liquid crystal like good mobility non interdigitated side chains and ensuing chain alignment along an applied flow field. By optimizing the polymer concentration and a flow field a high dichroic ratio of 16.67 can be achieved from conducting CP films. 2 D grazing incidence X ray diffraction shows a well defined CP alignment. Thin film transistors built on highly aligned CP films showed more than three orders of magnitude faster carrier mobility along the CP alignment direction than the perpendicular to the CP alignment direction and an anisotropic optical gating effect depending on a polarized light direction.

In this contribution we systematically investigated and established a molecular design principle of CPs to achieve directed alignment of CPs along an applied flow field and achieve a dichroic ratio of as high as 16.67 in emission from well aligned conducting CP thin films and fully realized anisotropic optoelectronic properties of CPs in field effect transistor FET . As shown in Scheme S1 and Scheme S2 four different CPs sharing the same chemical backbone were synthesized. CPI shows the inventive features described herein while CP2 CP3 CP4 are comparative.

In one embodiment a conductive polymer having an aromatic repeating unit is provided. The repeating unit comprises 

a an aromatic conjugated backbone comprising a plurality of aromatic rings and further comprising at least one sulfur atom and at least one fluorine atom the sulfur and fluorine atoms being located on adjacent aromatic rings and separated by three carbon atoms of the conjugated backbone b an aliphatic ring fused to at least one of the aromatic rings of the repeating unit and c two side chains connected to an spcarbon of the fused aliphatic ring wherein the side chains are aliphatic and have 4 or more non hydrogen atoms.

In various embodiments the conjugated backbone comprises at least one thiophene ring the conjugated backbone comprises at least one aryl ring or the conjugated backbone comprises 2 6 aromatic rings. For example the repeating unit comprises a conjugated backbone with 3 aromatic rings or with 4 aromatic rings. In certain embodiments the conjugated backbone comprises a F substituted phenyl ring and can further comprise a thiophene ring.

In illustrative embodiments the side chains are independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkenyl C Calkenyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkynyl and C Calkynyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl.

In further embodiments the side chains are independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkenyl C Calkenyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkynyl and C Calkynyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl.

In a particular embodiment the conjugated backbone comprises two thiophene rings and a phenyl ring substituted with two F atoms.

The conductive polymer is characterized as having an intramolecular sulfur fluorine S F interaction and bulky side chains linked to a tetrahedral carbon atom. The structural features lead to concentration regulated chain planarization self assembly non interdigitated side chains and chain alignment along an applied flow field.

In another embodiment a conductive polymer having the above features has a repeating unit of the structure

In various embodiments Rand Rare independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkenyl C Calkenyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkynyl C Calkynyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl.

In other embodiments Rand Rare independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkenyl C Calkenyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl C Calkynyl and C Calkynyl substituted with one or more groups selected from oxo oxa and hydroxyl.

In another embodiment an electroconductive polymer film is made from any of the polymers. The film in turn can be fabricated into known devices such as a light emitting diode a field effect transistor a thin film transistor an organic solar cell an optical sensor and an amperometric sensor.

Design features of the inventive chemical structure of CP1 include 1 concentration induced chain planarization 2 carbon having tetrahedral out of plane bonding and 3 bulky side chains preventing side chain interdigitation. The difference between CP1 and CP2 is the two fluorine F atoms on the benzene moiety in CP1 which was designed to investigate the influence of the S F interaction on the intra molecular geometry and ultimately as a means to regulate chain planarity. The interaction between S and F atoms has been reported to improve carrier mobility because it is strong enough to enhance the crystallinity of small molecules.To minimize intermolecular S F interaction and massive polymer aggregation induced by strong intermolecular interactions two bulky 2 ethylhexyl side chains were introduced at the tetrahedral position of the second repeat unit of CP1. The second repeat unit having this unique structural form factor provides a liquid crystal like property to CP1 by not only preventing the polymer from massive aggregation and but also inhibiting side chain interdigitation .

In order to investigate the role of the bulky side chains and the necessity of the tetrahedral carbon having out of plane bonds the third CP CP3 and the fourth CP CP4 were designed and synthesized respectively. CP3 shares the exact same chemical structure with CP1 except that it has only one 2 ethylhexyl side chain rather than two bulky side chains. We kept the same two bulky 2 ethylhexyl side chains when we designed CP4 but replaced the tetrahedral carbon linkage having two out of plane bonds with the nitrogen linkage having one in plane bond to attach the side chains. The new CPs of Scheme 1 and S2 were synthesized by using Suzuki or Stille type reactions with Pd 0 catalysts.

The resulting CPs have very similar absorption spectra in solution due to their structural similarity. When the chain conformations of the CPs were quantum mechanically calculated by means of the time dependent density functional theory DFT the four CPs exhibited analogous chain geometries having similar twist angles between each monomer which explains their similar absorption behavior in solution. Synthetic procedures of obtained polymers and R indicates 2 ethylhexyl group.

Polymer geometry including twisted angles between each segmental unit was predicted after calculation of their trimer s chain conformation. In case of CP3 its conformation was assumed as same with CP1 because they share exactly same backbone structure. Electronic structure calculations and spatial relaxation of the molecules were performed by using Gaussian03. Pre optimizations of the molecules were carried out using AM1 semi empirical quantum chemistry model and the resulting molecular configurations were then further optimized in the density functional theory DFT framework. We used B3LYP as the exchange correlation functional that is a Hartree Fock DFT hybrid where the exchange energy is explicitly calculated using the Hartree Fock approach. The molecular geometries were optimized in the Cartesian coordinate system without any symmetry maximum degrees of freedom using 6 31G contracted Gaussian basis set with polarization functions.

When CP1 solution in o dichlorobenzene 10 mg 4 ml is drop cast on a hydrophilic substrate on a hot plate such as glass indium tin oxide ITO and polyvinyl alcohol PVA film a flow field forms as the solvent evaporates during thermal treatment. The spontaneous flow field of CP1 can be attributed to its low surface energy originating from the F atoms as confirmed with a water contact angle of 101.5 . Interestingly the flow of CP1 solution produced unidirectional grooves which have the same direction as the flow. Adding an additive 5 vol 1 8 diiodooctane or octanedithiol to the CP1 solution improved the uniformity of the resulting grooves as shown in indicating that the non volatile additive is helpful for the groove generation mechanism in the CP1 film. The grooves exhibited a bright and dark reddish emission along their direction . The Marangoni effect caused by the surface tension difference during solvent evaporation may be responsible in part for the groove formation. High resolution SEM and tapping mode AFM revealed that the grooves have regular features exhibiting about 5 nm in amplitude and a 200 300 nm period.

To analyze the nature of the grooves the CP1 film was characterized by grazing incidence X ray diffraction GIXD with a 2 D detector because it provides both lateral and vertical order information of a thin film. The 2 D GIXD measurement was carried out both parallel in groove and perpendicular out groove to the grooves in a single sample. In the case of y axis scattering both in groove and out groove directions showed the same scattering pattern corresponding to a lamella like orientational order with a similar scattering intensity. Only the in groove direction however exhibited noticeable x axis scattering suggesting that the generated lamella have a principal positional order along the flow field direction. An X ray diffractogram converted from the 2 D scattering images reveals that the inter chain distance 2 4.3 20.5 is comparable to double the calculated side chain distance 10.5 of the polymer backbone as illustrated in . Although the invention is not limited by theory or mode of action it appears that the branched bulky side chains two 2 ethylhexyl groups at the tetrahedral position have minimized inter chain interactions resulting in barely interdigitated CP1 chains.

When a CP1 film was fabricated by spin casting we could see only an immature lamellar structure without any x axis scattering indicating a lack of inter lamellar ordering spin casting dries the film rapidly and does not likely allow enough time or mobility for the polymer chains to be self assembled and oriented. Along these lines the diffraction images of a spin cast CP1 film and a drop cast CP2 film indicate no noticeable crystallization. The diffraction patterns on CP3 and CP4 obtained by means of Rigaku Rotaflex Ru 200B indicate that CP3 induces strong side chain interdigitation but CP4 does not due to bulky side chains.

CP2 having no intra molecular S F interaction capability did not show any alignment and generated only primary scattering corresponding to the inter chain distance. The reason for the distinguishable self assembly behaviors between CP1 and CP2 can be traced to their different molecular geometry which originates from the intra molecular S F interaction. Initially both CPs are fully solvated by a good solvent and have a similar conformation confirmed by their solution UV vis spectra. During the solvent evaporation the free volume occupied by solvent molecules decreases and the polymer chains reorient to minimize steric hindrance as they are forced to be closely packed. One common type of reorientation routes of CPs is their backbone rotation because of their inherently rigid rod like frame work.This rotation triggers the intramolecular S F interaction and produces planar segments in the CP1 backbone. Then the planar segments accelerate inter chain assembly via interaction. However the bulky side chains attached on the tetrahedral position of the second repeat unit prevent massive aggregation which gives still mobile crystalline like nature on the CP1 chains much like LCs. The UV vis spectra of CP1 in a solution and a solid film are consistent with this discussion.

The absorption of CP1 shows a large red shift in a solid film. Usually a large red shift of the absorption from solution to a film state is explained by strong intermolecular aggregation and or increased effective conjugation due to chain planarization.Since the bulky 2 ethylhexyloxy side chains were introduced at the tetrahedral position to minimize intermolecular chain packing the unique and large absorption change of CP1 in a solid film could be ascribed to the chain planarization via the intramolecular S F interaction. Examining the absorption spectra of CP2 in a solution and a solid film verifies this claim CP2 having no S F interaction capability only showed a minimal red shift from a solution to a solid film.

To investigate the importance of the non interdigitated side chain packing of CP1 for the directed alignment capability we synthesized CP3 having only one 2 ethylhexyl side chain. XRD data showed the interchain distance of 1.65 nm which is much smaller than 2.10 nm of CP1 indicating interdigitated side chains of CP3 as intended. CP3 indeed did not show the alignment phenomenon. We believe that the interdigitated side chains interlock the CP3 chains along the film thickness direction reduce the chain mobility and the aspect ratio and consequently prevent the rod like individual CP3 chain from aligning while the non interdigitated bulky side chains of CP1 endow liquid like mobility to CP1 so that it can align along the shear direction.

To demonstrate how having the two out of plane bonds or an analogous moiety having a large form factor seems to be necessary for realizing the directed alignment feature through preventing a strong interchain interaction of CPs we synthesized CP4 having the same two 2 ethylhexyl side chains connected to a nitrogen linker rather than a tetrahedral carbon linker. XRD analysis on CP4 films showed 2.81 nm of interchain distance suggesting non interdigitated side chains like CP1. However we could not observe any alignment feature from CP4. We investigated the aggregation behavior of CP4 compared to CP1 to understand the importance of the tetrahedral carbon linker. We prepared CP1 and CP4 solutions in o dichlorobenzene at various concentrations and recorded the absorption spectrums of each solution. While CP1 did not show any significant red shift even at a very high concentration of 135 mg ml CP4 displayed aggregation and particle formation at a concentration of only 4 mg ml. A 4 mg ml solution of CP4 exhibited a Tyndall effect due to the particle formation. Therefore we conclude that CP4 lacking a tetrahedral carbon with two out of plane linkers aggregates too well. The aggregates do not have a large enough aspect ratio nor good enough mobility to be aligned along the flow field. The structural analysis optical properties and alignment behavior of the designed four CPs consistently support the molecular design principle recited herein for efficient polymer alignment.

To direct the alignment direction of the CP1 chains a contact coating system can be used to adjust both the coating speed and the thickness of the film. As shown in we obtained a well aligned CP1 film along the applied contact coating direction. In this system the blade maintained contact with the CP1 solution through capillary force. As the coating speed decreases more narrow and homogeneous grooves are produced. The width of the coating area under an optimized coating condition speed 25 m sec gap 50 m was over 20 mm. To quantify the alignment of CP1 realized by the contact coating method the emission intensities of the film were investigated by using a linear polarizer. As depicted in the emission intensity decreased as the direction of the polarizer deviated from parallel to perpendicular to the contact coating direction indicating a parallel alignment of CP1 along the coating direction. As the coating speed decreased a higher degree of polymer alignment was achieved judging from the dichroic ratio in emission the emission intensity parallel to the alignment direction the emission intensity perpendicular to the alignment direction . While the film obtained with a 100 m sec coating speed exhibited a dichroic ratio of 4.76 the film produced with a 25 m sec coating produced a much larger dichroic ratio of 16.67. In a sense this is counterintuitive because a larger coating speed should produce a large flow field and anticipate better chain alignment. The reason for this counterintuitive phenomenon can be found from the CP1 design for directed alignment. Until the solvent evaporates enough CP1 will not have a planar conformation and in this state the polymer chain cannot be effectively aligned due to the small size of the individual chain vide supra the exact same reason the non volatile additive improved polymer alignment. Therefore a slower coating speed will allow more solvent evaporation and induce more effective chain planarization and self assembly. The self assembled liquid like CP1 will then align along the flow field. The molecular weight of CPs will also influence the degree of alignment. We obtained a larger dichroic ratio as the molecular weight of CP1 increased . The enlarged molecular weight would endow higher aspect ratio to the rigid frame resulting in better intermolecular assembly as similarly described in a previous report.

We built FET devices having top contact and bottom gate TC BG configuration on the well aligned CP1 film to demonstrate how the anisotropic properties of CP can be realized in a device application. Heavily doped n type Si SiOwafer was used as the substrate wherein the conductive Si wafer and the surface SiOlayer 260 nm function as the common gate electrode and the gate dielectric respectively. As shown in the output and transfer curves of FET device having the same source drain S D direction to the alignment the hole mobility 0 extracted from the saturation regime is 0.86 cm V s with a current on to off ratio I I of 1.7 10and a threshold voltage V of around 16 V. In addition the hysteresis characteristic of the FET device obtained from the aligned CP1 film was investigated by sweeping the gate voltage in the forward and reverse directions under a S D voltage V of 50 V at a sweep rate of 0.5 V s. The device hysteresis defined as the difference between the forward and reverse threshold voltage is about 5.0 V which is comparable to that of FET device built on common semiconducting CPs.

The FET carrier mobility sensitively changed depending on the S D direction relative to the polymer alignment direction and . The fastest hole mobility was obtained along the polymer alignment direction 0 0.86 cm V s which was about 3 orders of magnitude higher than the slowest hole mobility extracted from the perpendicular direction to the polymer alignment 90 of 0.00054 cm V s. This result indicates that the intra chain carrier transfer along conjugated polymer backbones is more efficient compared to the interchain charge hopping through stacks even though the hopping rate could be different depending on the intermolecular distance.The hole mobility of spin cast films which is comparable to the immaturely assembled state of CP1 film exhibited slightly smaller value than that of the midway direction 45 of the alignment direction. This was still about 1 2 orders of magnitude faster than the transverse mobility 90 . To demonstrate a possible multimode switching of the aligned CP1 film the characteristic optical gating effect of the FET device was investigated under a polarized light condition. As shown in the output dark current of the device under the gate voltage V of 40 V was measured first. Depending on the orientation of the polarized light illumination 7.1 mW cm to the aligned CP1 film different amounts of photocurrent gain was observed. This implies that incident light can substitute the Vas an independent input signal to generate charge carriers in the transistor. The on to off switching ratio I I under illumination was about 7.2 10 which is large enough for an FET to operate as a multi mode switch such as electrical and optical switch.

Kim Y. et al. A strong regioregularity effect in self organizing conjugated polymer films and high efficiency polythiophene fullerene solar cells. 5 197 2006 .

Chen H. Y. et al. Polymer solar cells with enhanced open circuit voltage and efficiency. 3 649 2009 .

Park S. H. et al. Bulk heterojunction solar cells with internal quantum efficiency approaching 100 . 3 297 2009 .

Mcculloch I. et al. Liquid crystalline semiconducting polymers with high charge carrier mobility. 5 328 2006 .

Sirringhaus H. et al. Two dimensional charge transport in self organized high mobility conjugated polymers. 401 685 1999 .

Ha J. S. Kim K. H. Choi D. H. 2 5 Bis 2 octyldodecyl pyrrolo 3 4 c pyrrole 1 4 2H 5H dione based donor acceptor alternating copolymer bearing 5 5 di thiophen 2 yl 2 2 biselenophene exhibiting 1.5 cmVshole mobility in thin film transistors 133 10364 2011 .

Gross M. et al. Improving the performance of doped p conjugated polymers for use in organic light emitting diodes. 405 661 2000 .

Lavastre O. Illitchev I. Jegou G. Dixneuf P. H. Discovery of new fluorescent materials from fast synthesis and screening of conjugated polymers. 124 5278 2002 .

Thomas III S. W. Joly G. D. Swager T. M. Chemical sensors based on amplifying fluorescent conjugated polymers. 107 1339 2007 .

Gibbons W. M. Shannon P. J. Sun S. T. Swetlin B. J. Surface mediated alignment of nematic liquid crystals with polarized laser light. 351 49 1991 .

Grell M. et al. A glass forming conjugated main chain liquid crystal polymer for polarized electroluminescence application. 9 798 1997 .

Grell M. et al. A. Blue polarized electroluminescence from a liquid crystalline polyfluorene. 11 671 1999 .

Lee J. Jun H. Kim J. Polydiacetylene liposome microarrays for selective and sensitive mercury II detection. 21 3674 2009 .

Brinkmann M Wittmann J. C. Orientation of regioregular poly 3 hexylthiophene by directional solidification A simple method to reveal the semicrystalline structure of a conjugated polymer. 18 860 2006 .

Cimrov V. Remmers M. Neher D. Wegner G. Polarized light emission from LEDs prepared by the langmuir blodgett technique. 8 146 1996 .

Kim J. McHugh S. K. Swager T. M. Nanoscale fibrils and grids aggregated structures from rigid rod conjugated polymers. 32 1500 1999 .

Weder C. Sarwa C. Montali A. Bastiaansen C. Smith P. Incorporation of photoluminescent polarizers into liquid crystal displays. Science 279 835 1998 .

Montali A. Bastiaansen C. Smith P. Weder C. Polarizing energy transfer in photoluminescentmaterials for display applications. 392 261 1998 .

Tsao H. N. et al. The influence of morphology on high performance polymer field effect transistors. 21 209 2009 .

Zheng Z. et al. Uniaxial alignment of liquid crystalline conjugated polymers by nanoconfinement. 7 987 2007 .

Subramanian S. et al. Chromophore fluorination enhances crystallization and stability of soluble anthradithiophene semiconductors. 130 2706 2008 .

Gundlach D. J. et al. Contact induced crystallinity for high performance soluble acene based transistors and circuits. 7 216 2008 .

Kim J. Swager T. M. Control of conformational and interpolymer effects in conjugated polymers. 411 1030 2001 .

Yang N. J. Liao C. S. Chen S. A. Hysteresis in conjugated polymer thin film transistors generated by chain relaxation. 20 1000 2010 .

Lemaur V. et al. Charge Transport Properties in Discotic Liquid Crystals A Quantum Chemical Insight into Structure Property Relationships. 126 3271 2004 

Kline R. J. et al. Dependence of regioregular poly 3 hexylthiophene film morphology and field effect mobility on molecular weight. 38 3312 2005 .

Redecker M. Bradley D. D. C. Ibasekaran M. Woo E. P. Mobility enhancement through homogeneous nematic alignment of liquid crystalline polyfluorene. 74 1400 1999 .

All starting materials were purchased from commercial suppliers Aldrich and Fisher Sci. . Detailed synthetic procedures are summarized in supporting information and compound 1 6 7 13 and 14 were prepared as previously described manner.Synthesized compounds were fully characterized with 1H NMR and GC mass and molecular weights of final polymers were measured with gel permeation chromatography GPC after polystyrene calibration standards were used.

Under Ar condition compound 1 1 g 5.43 mmol and NaH 0.65 g 3.0 eq was stirred in anhydrous DMF at 60 C. for 30 min. After adding 2 ethylhexyl bromide 3.86 ml 21.7 mmol slowly at room temperature the mixture was stirred for 24 hours at 60 C. Then water was added to quench the mixture and the mixture was extracted with diethyl ether. The extracted organic solution was dried with MgSO4 and solvent was evaporated in vacuo. Compound 2 73 was obtained from column chromatography using a eluent of dichloromethane. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 6.73 s 2H 3.38 s 4H 2.28 d 4H 2.71 s 4H 1.49 m 2H 1.2 1.35 m 16H 0.8 0.9 m 12H and m z EIMS 409.

Under Ar condition compound 2 1 g 2.45 mmol 4.4 di tert butyl 2.2 bipyridine 19.845 mg 3.0 mol and bis pinacolato diboron 0.497 g 1.96 mmol were added to heptanes. After adding Bis 1 5 cyclooctadiene di methoxydiiridium I 24.01 mg 0.04 mmol the mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 16 hours and poured into cold water. Then the mixture was extracted with chloroform and dried with MgSO4. Compound 3 65 was obtained from column chromatography after elution of chloroform hexane 1 5 . 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 3.40 s 4H 2.28 d 4H 2.71 s 4H 1.49 m 2H 1.2 1.35 m 40H 0.8 0.9 m 12H and m z EIMS 661.

Under Ar condition compound 3 1 g 1.51 mmol and 2 bromothiophene 0.15 ml 3.0 eq. were added into anhydrous DMF 24 ml . After adding Pd 0 2.5 mol and 2M Na2CO3 12 ml the mixture was stirred at 120 C. for 24 hours and poured into water. Then the mixture was extracted with chloroform and dried with MgSO4. Compound 4 67 yellowish viscous liquid was obtained from column chromatography after elution of Ethyl acetate hexane 1 10 . Initially the color of compound 4 was initially pale yellow but kept changing to brownish color under ambient condition. So it was stored into freezer and used for next reaction. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.21 d 2H 7.14 d 2H 7.04 m 2H 3.42 s 4H 3.32 d 4H 2.75 s 4H 1.52 m 2H 1.2 1.40 m 16H 0.8 0.9 m 12H and m z EIMS 574.

Under dark condition compound 4 0.5 g 0.87 mmol was dissolved into chloroform and 2.0 equivalent of NBS diluted into chloroform was slowly added under ice bath. Then the mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 6 hours. After adding water to the mixture the organic layer was separated and dried with MgSO4. Compound 5 88 yellowish viscous liquid was obtained from column chromatography after elution of ethyl acetate hexane 1 10 and it was also stored into freezer and used for next reaction. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.02 d 2H 7.94 d 2H 3.38 s 4H 3.30 d 4H 2.77 s 4H 1.52 q 2H 1.2 1.40 m 16H 0.8 0.9 m 12H and m z EIMS 731.

Under inert conditions Ar monomers containing diboronester unit compound 6 and compound 7 was dissolved into toluene and the equivalent amount of corresponding monomer compound 5 was mixed. After adding 5 mol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 and 1.8 ml of tetraethyl ammonium hydroxide 20 solution to the 1 mmol of compound 5 the mixture was stirred at 95 C. for 24 hours. Bromobenzene 24 m and benzene boronic acid 26 mg were added respectively to the mixture for chain end modification. The final polymer was collected via reprecipitation into methanol. The solid was collected through 0.45 m nylon filter and washed with methanol and acetone in a soxhlet apparatus to remove the oligomers and catalyst residue. After dissolving obtained polymer into chloroform the polymer solution was eluted through a column packed with Cellite and Florosil. Then the solution was concentrated and reprecipitated from methanol again. CP1 Mn 22000 Mw 35000 and PDI 1.6 and CP2 Mn 20000 Mw 36000 and PDI 1.8 .

Under Ar condition 1 4 dibromo 2 5 difluorobenzene 1 g 3.68 mmol and 2 tributylstannyl thiophene 3.5 ml 3.0 eq were dissolved in anhydrous toluene. After adding tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 0.21 g 5 mol the mixture was heated up to 80 C. for 16 hours. Then the mixture was poured into water and extracted with chloroform. The organic layer was dried with MgSO4 and target compound 56 was obtained from column chromatography after elution with dichlromethane n hexane 1 2 . 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.55 d 2H 7.43 m 4H 7.17 t 2H and m z EIMS 278.

Under Ar condition compound 8 1 g 3.59 mmol was dissolved into anhydrous THF. At 75 C. n butyl lithium 3.0 ml 2.5 M solution in heptane was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. Then the mixture was warmed up to room temperature and additionally stirred for 1 hour. After cooling again the mixture to 75 C. trimethyltin chloride 7.54 ml 1.0M solution in THF was added and stirred overnight under room temperature. Then the mixture was poured into water and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was dried with MgSO4 and target compound 75 was finally obtained through recrystallization from dichloromethane n hexane. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.61 d 2H 7.42 t 2H 7.22 dt 2H 0.42 sp 18H and m z EIMS 604.

Under Ar condition compound 1 0.9 g 4.88 mmol and NaH 0.23 g 1.2 eq was suspended in anhydrous DMF at room temperature and the mixture was heated up to 60 C. for 30 min. After adding 2 ethylhexyl bromide 1.04 ml 5.86 mmol slowly the mixture was stirred for 24 hours at 60 C. Then water was added to quench the mixture and the mixture was extracted with diethyl ether. The extracted organic solution was dried with MgSO4 and solvent was evaporated in vacuo. Compound 10 52 was obtained from column chromatography using a eluent of dichloromethane n hexane. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 6.79 s 2H 3.70 d 2H 3.55 s 2H 3.34 d 2H 3.02 t 1H 2.68 d 2H 2.58 d 2H 1.54 m 1H 1.28 1.35 m 10H 0.89 0.92 m 6H and m z EIMS 296.

Under Ar condition compound 10 1 g 3.37 mmol and NaH 0.26 g 2.0 eq was suspended in anhydrous THF at room temperature and the mixture was heated up to 60 C. for 30 min. After adding iodomethane 0.634 ml 5.0 eq slowly the mixture was stirred for 24 hours at 60 C. Then water was added to quench the mixture and the mixture was extracted with diethyl ether. The extracted organic solution was dried with MgSO4 and solvent was evaporated in vacuo. Compound 11 84 was obtained from column chromatography using a eluent of dichloromethane n hexane. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 6.75 s 2H 3.37 3.35 m 7H 3.30 d 2H 2.60 dt 4H 1.49 m 1H 1.28 1.35 m 10H 0.89 0.92 m 6H and m z EIMS 310.

Under dark condition compound 11 3.37 mmol was dissolved into chloroform and 2.3 equivalent of NBS 1.38 g 7.75 mmol was slowly added under ice bath. Then the mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 6 hours. After adding water to the mixture the organic layer was separated and dried with MgSO4. Compound 12 98 was obtained from column chromatography after elution of dichloromethane n hexane. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 3.35 m 5H 3.31 d 4H 2.55 s 4H 1.50 m 1H 1.28 1.35 m 10H 0.89 0.92 t 6H and m z EIMS 468.

Compound 13 1 g 6.5 mmol and compound 14 1.32 g 0.8 eq were dissolved into anhydrous dioxane 30 ml . After adding DMAP 0.97 g 7.89 mmol to the mixture it was stirred for 20 hours at 55 C. Then acetic anhydride 20 ml was added to the mixture and it was heated up to 80 C. After additionally stirring for 4 hours the mixture was poured into water and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was separated and dried with MgSO4. Compound 15 66 was obtained from column chromatography after elution of dichloromethane n hexane. 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.80 s 2H 4.35 m 1H 2.05 m 2H 1.57 1.12 m 19H 0.92 0.79 m 12H and m z EIMS 391.

Compound 15 1 g 2.55 mmol was dissolved into a mixture of H2SO4 3.82 ml and trifluoroacetic acid 12.5 ml . NBS 1.4 g 7.5 mmol was added in five portions to the solution and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The resulted brown red solution was diluted with water and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was separated and dried with MgSO4. Compound 15 78 was obtained from column chromatography after elution of dichloromethane n hexane 1 1 . 1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl3 4.32 m 1H 2.00 m 2H 1.57 1.12 m 19H 0.92 0.79 m 12H and m z EIMS 549.

Under inert conditions Ar compound 9 was dissolved into anhydrous toluene and the equivalent amount of corresponding monomers compound 12 or compound 16 was mixed. After adding 5 mol of Pd2dba3 and P o toyl 3 3.5 eq to Pd 0 were added to the mixture and it was stirred for 24 hours at 110 C. Then 2 tributylstannyl thiophene 39.5 l and 2 bromothiophene 12.5 l were added 3 hours intervals one after the other both for the termination of polymerization and chain end modification. The final polymers were collected via reprecipitation into methanol and the solid was collected through 0.45 m nylon filter. After washing the collected solid with methanol and acetone in a soxhlet apparatus to remove the oligomers and catalyst residue soluble part to chloroform was only obtained for next characterization. Then the polymer solution was eluted through a column packed with Cellite Florosil and obtained solution was reprecipitated from methanol after concentration in vacuo. CP3 Mn 4437 Mw 7444 and PDI 1.68 and CP4 Mn 33800 Mw 65600 and PDI 1.94 .

GIXD was performed on beamline 4C2 incident angle 0.2 at the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory PAL . The samples were mounted on an X and Y axes goniometer and monochromatized X rays 0.1608 nm under vacuum was used. The scattered beam intensity was recorded with an SCX 4300 165 2 CCD detector 1242 1152 pixels Princeton Instruments . The diffraction intensity plots of the 2D GIXD patterns were obtained using SAXS FIT2D software provided by the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility.

After cleaning substrate it was placed on top of hot stage. The gap between the substrate and coating unit was controlled from 25 m to 100 m with standard polyimide film including micro gauge. Dilute polymer solutions 10 mg in 4 ml of o dichlorobenzene containing additive 5 vol 1 8 diiodooctane or 1 8 octanedithiol were spread onto the substrate. Then the coating unit silicon blade was adjusted to the edge of polymer solution which makes polymer solution spread along silicon blade. The coating unit was operated under heating 140 C. and the maximum process window of our coating machine is about 1.5 inch length 1.0 inch width . The schematic diagram of a contact type coater is illustrated in .

Bottom gate top contact field effect transistors were fabricated to characterize electrical properties of obtained polymer films. After cleaning the silicon wafer in a Piranha solution phenyltrichlorosilane PTS water contact angle 72 was treated on thermally grown oxide surface 260 nm and polymer films 80 nm were prepared by means of contact or spin coating methods. Then source and drain electrodes Au 100 nm were then thermally evaporated through shadow mask with channel width and length of 200 m and 100 m respectively. The field effect mobility was extracted from the saturation regime using the relationship sat 2I L W C V Vth where Iis saturation drain current C is capacitance 11 nF cm of dielectric layer SiO VG is gate voltage and Vth implies threshold voltage. The device performance was evaluated in air using Keithley 4200 SCS semiconductor analyzer.

