---

title: Orientation measurements for drift correction
abstract: Technology for measuring orientation is described. Signals can be received from a signal source having a known location via at least two antennas of the interferometer that are separated by a predefined distance. A delay between receiving the signals from the signal source at the at least two antennas of the interferometer can be calculated. A line of bearing (LOB) of the interferometer with respect to the signal source can be determined based on the delay between receiving the signals at the at least two antennas from the signal source. The orientation of the interferometer can be measured in a global coordinate system using the LOB of the interferometer with respect to the signal source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09395447&OS=09395447&RS=09395447
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09395447
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141211
---
Navigation techniques can be used to monitor and control a movement of an object e.g. a car an airplane from one place to another. The navigation techniques can involve a determination of current position and direction of the object. Some navigation techniques can involve using radio signals radar or satellite signals to determine the current position and direction of the object. For example a global positioning system GPS receiver can determine a current location using time signals transmitted along a line of sight from navigation satellites. Another example of a navigation technique is inertial navigation wherein a plurality of sensors e.g. accelerometers gyroscopes can be used to continuously calculate a current position orientation and velocity of a moving object via dead reckoning.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly and is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A technology is described for reducing drift of components within an inertial navigation system INS which is also referred to as an inertial navigation unit INU INS . The INS can be used to guide a moving object such as a vehicle or a self propelled guided weapon e.g. a missile . The drift of gyroscopes and or accelerometers inside the INS can reduce an accuracy of the INS over a period of time. In other words the drift can cause the INS to inaccurately determine a current location thereby resulting in the moving object traveling to an unknown or undesired location. Therefore independent measurements of location velocity and or orientation can be performed over time to reduce the negative effects caused by the drift. In one example an interferometer on the moving object can be used to measure line of bearings LOBs between the interferometer and one or more satellites of a known location. The interferometer can be operable to receive electromagnetic waves from the one or more satellites. The satellites can be non cooperative satellites or cooperative satellites. The INS can use the LOBs in order to obtain independent measurements of orientation for the interferometer on the moving object. The accuracy of the orientation measured using the satellites can be within 0.001 degrees even when the location of the satellite is poor e.g. within a few kilometers . As a result the effect of drift on the gyroscopes and accelerometers can be limited in inertial navigations systems.

Inertial navigation systems INS are navigation systems that use motion sensors e.g. accelerometers and rotation sensors e.g. gyroscopes to continuously calculate a position orientation and velocity e.g. direction and speed of movement of a moving object without using external references. Current inertial navigation systems can calculate the position orientation and velocity using dead reckoning i.e. calculating one s current position by using a previously determined position and advancing that position based upon known or estimated speeds over a period of time. The INS can be used to guide a number of moving objects such as aircraft submarines spacecraft and guided missiles. The inertial navigation system can use the motion sensors and rotation sensors to track the object s position and orientation relative to a known starting point e.g. an initial start location . The INS can be provided with a known starting point from another source such as a human operator or a global positioning system GPS receiver. The INS can subsequently compute its own position and velocity by integrating information received from the motion sensors and rotation sensors. An advantage of inertial navigation systems is that no external references are generally needed to determine the position orientation and velocity once the INS has been initialized.

However prior inertial navigation systems can suffer from integration drift or cumulative error. These relatively small errors in the measurement of acceleration and angular velocity are integrated into progressively larger errors in velocity which are compounded into greater errors in position. Since the new position is calculated from the previous calculated position and the measured acceleration and angular velocity these errors accumulate and grow over time. In one example the accuracy of prior inertial navigation system can diverge in approximately 15 to 45 minutes. In particular inaccurate orientation measurements due to gyroscope drift are common sources of error in prior inertial navigation systems.

Therefore in previous inertial navigation systems the position can be periodically corrected by input from another type of navigation system. For example measurements of the inertial navigation system can be compared with those of other positioning velocity and direction measuring tools such as GPS. Alternatively the output of the INS can be corrected using local references such as terrain target landmarks or local beacons. The use of local references to correct for drift can be imprecise e.g. when flying over an ocean . In addition GPS can be unavailable or unreliable in certain situations e.g. when GPS signals are spoofed . As an example if electronics onboard an aircraft are disrupted and the INS is resetting the aircraft can be lost i.e. the aircraft does not know its orientation or a current location.

As described in further detail below the effect of drift in inertial navigation systems can be limited or reduced by using in part signals from non cooperative satellites in orbit to update the orientation of the inertial navigation system thereby reducing the drift.

In one example the object can include a moving object such as a vehicle e.g. an aircraft or a self propelled guided weapon e.g. a missile or other objects as recognized by those skilled in the art. The navigation device can be on board the object . The navigation device can be an inertial navigation system INS . The navigation device can include motion sensors e.g. accelerometers and rotation sensors e.g. gyroscopes to continuously calculate a position orientation and velocity e.g. direction and speed of movement of the object .

The signal sources can be geostationary Earth orbit GEO satellites medium Earth orbit MEO satellites low Earth orbit LEO satellites ground transmitters or a combination thereof. The signal sources can include non cooperative satellites or cooperative satellites. In general non cooperative satellites do not include GPS satellites that establish handshakes and provide information about them. Rather non cooperative satellites can transmit information without knowledge that the navigation device is listening to the transmissions of the non cooperative satellite. Examples of non cooperative satellites can include communication satellites weather satellites foreign satellites etc. The non cooperative satellites do not know they are being used for navigation and therefore the non cooperative satellites cannot spoof themselves. The non cooperative satellites can be used for navigation as long as the non cooperative satellites transmit and do not actively try to change orbit. Cooperative satellites can include GPS satellites.

The signal sources can be at a known location. In other words the navigation device can know the locations of the signal sources e.g. non cooperative satellites based on an almanac. If the signal source is a cooperative satellite the navigation device does not previously need to know the signal sources location because the cooperative satellite can transmit its location to the navigation device . In addition the navigation device can know transmission characteristics e.g. carrier frequency of the signals transmitted from the signal sources . The transmission content itself can be enciphered with no key provided. In other words the navigation device does not need the information that is being transmitted in the signals from the signal sources e.g. weather information . In general the navigation device can calculate the orientation of the interferometer using signal sources with known locations and known transmission characteristics. The navigation device can determine the locations of the signal sources using an almanac that provides the positions locations of the signal sources at a given time. In other words the satellite locations can be obtained independently by a tracking station without cooperation of the signal sources and provided in ephemerides.

In one configuration the interferometer within the navigation device can also be referred to as a phase array. In other words the navigation device can use interferometric techniques to determine the orientation of the interferometer . Since the interferometer is on the object the interferometer s orientation can indicate the object s orientation. The navigation device can determine the interferometer s orientation with respect to the signal sources using transmissions from the signal sources 

In one example the interferometer s orientation can be determined through a line of bearing LOB determination e.g. the LOB of the interferometer on the navigation device with respect to the signal sources i.e. reference beacons . The LOB in degrees is an angle between a forward direction of the interferometer or the object and a direction to another object e.g. the signal sources . In other words the LOB is the angle between the forward direction of the interferometer or the object and a line towards the other object e.g. the signal sources . The LOB refers to the direction of the other object as seen from a perspective of the interferometer or the object . The navigation device can use interferometric techniques to determine the LOBs of the interferometer with respect to the signal sources . If the navigation device knows the locations of the signal sources and the LOBs to the signal sources the navigation device can determine the current orientation of the interferometer in a global coordinate system. Therefore the navigation device can update a previous orientation that is possibly inaccurate due to gyroscope drift with the current orientation and the navigation device can be restarted in order to use the current orientation.

The interferometer also known as the phase array can be formed from elements that comprise at least two receiving antennas . The receiving antennas can be characterized by five spatial variables related to location and orientation as well as one scalar variable related to a predefined distance separating the receiving antennas or receivers . The predefined distance can also be referred to as an effective i.e. electromechanical distance between the receiving antennas . In one example the predefined distance can be calibrated independently. In addition the receiving antennas can be both oriented at substantially the same angle.

The receiving antennas can receive a signal from the signal source . Since the receiving antennas are at separate points i.e. the receiving antennas are separated by the predefined distance the signal can be received at different times for the various receiving antennas . In other words one antenna can receive the signal from the signal source slightly before or slightly after the other antenna receives the signal from the signal source . Since the signals transmitted from the signal source are electromagnetic signals traveling at approximately the speed of light the times of arrival for the receiving antennas can differ depending on a distance the signal has to travel to reach each of the receiving antennas . As a non limiting example the distance between the signal source and an antenna A or a first antenna can be slightly greater than the distance between the signal source and an antenna B or a second antenna . Therefore when the signal source transmits the signal the time of arrival for antenna A is slightly greater than the time of arrival for antenna B.

The difference in times of arrival between the receiving antennas or the delay between the times of arrival can be related to the cosine of the angle of bearing or LOB of the receiving antennas with respect to the signal source at the known location. In other words the angle is the LOB between the antennas that form the interferometer and the signal source . The cosine of the LOB can be determined using the delay between the times of arrival of the signal at the antennas . In one example the LOB can be determined using cos c t d wherein is the angle of the antennas orientation with respect to the signal source also known as the LOB c is the speed of light t is the delay between the times of arrival of the signal at the antennas and d is the predefined distance between the antennas .

In one example the interferometer can measure LOBs to a plurality of signal sources e.g. the cosine of the bearings to multiple signal sources. For example the interferometer can receive signals from the signal source and the signal source . The interferometer can measure the LOB to the signal source based on the delay in times of arrival of the signal at the antennas . In addition the interferometer can measure the LOB to the signal source based on the delay in times of arrival of the signal at the antennas . The navigation device can use the multiple LOBs measured via the interferometer in order to determine the orientation of the interferometer . In other words if the location of several landmarks e.g. signal sources is known and the bearing from a current location e.g. the interferometer s current location to those landmarks is known then the interferometer s orientation or absolute orientation can be determined with respect to the known orientations of the landmarks. Once the current orientation of the interferometer is determined for a global coordinate system the current orientation can replace a previous or outdated orientation. In other words the current orientation can be used to correct the gyroscopes and or accelerometers in the navigation device or restart the navigation device .

In one configuration the interferometer can measure at least two LOBs for two satellites simultaneously in order to determine the absolute orientation of the interferometer in the global coordinate system. The orientation of the interferometer can indicate the object s orientation as well e.g. the aircraft s orientation . In another example the interferometer can measure a first LOB to a first signal source and at a later time measure a second LOB to a second signal source. In other words the interferometer can measure cos to a first known location and at a later time measure cos to a second known location. In this example the navigation device can correct gyroscope drift based on the orientation of the interferometer determined using the first LOB and the second LOB even though the first LOB and the second LOB were not measured simultaneously.

In line of bearing LOB navigation the object s location and orientation e.g. the location and orientation of an aircraft can be determined through a determination of LOBs to reference beacons in the object s coordinate system. The accuracy of the LOB navigation can be expressed as a sum of two terms Orientation accuracy LOB accuracy Location accuracy Distance to Beacons. When satellites are used as the beacons the above expression means Orientation accuracy LOB accuracy Geolocation accuracy Distance to Satellite. The orientation accuracy refers to an accuracy level of the interferometer s orientation or object s orientation . The LOB accuracy refers to an accuracy level of the LOB of the antennas with respect to the signal sources . The geolocation accuracy refers to the accuracy of an interferometer location on Earth and the satellites in orbit. The distance to the satellites can refer to a distance between the interferometer or the object and the signal sources . When GEO satellites or MEO satellites are used an LOB with an acceptable accuracy level e.g. one arc second or five microradians or 0.003 degrees can be achieved when the locations are known within 100 m to 200 m. As an example the accuracy of the LOB navigation described herein can be within 0.001 degrees.

The accuracy with which the ratio c t d can be measured is determined by the carrier wavelength of the signal received from the signal carriers . In addition the accuracy with which the value of c t can be measured depends on the electromechanical stability of the antennas and the wavelength of the radiation and the Signal to Noise Ratio of the received signal.

In one configuration the difference in time of arrival i.e. c t for the signal received at the multiple antennas e.g. two or more antennas from the signal source can be determined using group delay or phase delay. In group delay the delay between a first antenna of the interferometer receiving the signal from the signal source and a second antenna of the interferometer receiving the signal from the signal source can be measured. For example the first antenna can receive the signal in slightly less time than it takes the second antenna to receive the signal. This difference in time is the group delay. The accuracy for group delay can depend on the bandwidth of the signal being transmitted and the power of the transmitter e.g. the signal source .

In phase delay rather than measuring the physical difference in time of arrival the difference in a phase of the carrier frequency that the signal source is transmitting can be measured. Phase delay can measure the phase difference of a single frequency signal emitted from the signal source . For example the first antenna can receive the signal at a particular phase and the second antenna can receive the signal at a later phase. The difference in phases is referred to as the phase delay. In other words since the signal is an electromagnetic wave e.g. a sine wave the signal has a phase. The electromagnetic wave can first reach the first antenna and then reach the second antenna at a later time. The number of waves between the electromagnetic wave reaching the first antenna and the second antenna is the phase delay. Thus the interferometer can measure the delay i.e. time delay or phase delay in the signal reaching the various antennas of the interferometer from the signal source

In one example phase delay can be more accurate than group delay but phase delay does have drawbacks. A phase delay equaling a half wavelength can appear the same as 1.5 wavelengths to the receiver i.e. the antennas of the interferometer . The receiver may not know when a wavelength has been missed i.e. the receiver may not know how many wavelengths in delay have been missed . In other words phase delay generally does not allow for determination of how many integer periods of transmitter frequency have occurred between the times the radiation reached the antennas . Therefore a combination of group delay and phase delay can be used to determine the difference in time of arrival i.e. c t . The group delay can provide a rough difference in time delay based on the relationship between the time measurements and phase detection can provide refined time values.

The pair of antennas can receive signals from the transmitter with a known location. The signal of interest can be the time delay c t between the signals being received at the antennas. For example a first antenna in the pair of antennas can receive the signal either before or after the second antenna in the pair of antennas receives the signal. This time difference or delay is calculated using c t . In one example 

In one example the interferometer can be used as a LOB detector i.e. to detect the LOB of the interferometer with respect to the transmitter. The interferometer accuracy depends on the accuracy with which the value of c t can be measured and the distance between the antennas of the interferometer. The c t equation can be rewritten in terms of LOB accuracy LOB accuracy 

There can be two approaches to measure the value of c t phase delay and group delay. Phase delay measures a phase difference of a single frequency signal emitted by the transmitter. Phase delay measurements can be more accurate than group delay measurements but in phase delay the number of integer periods of transmitter frequency that occur between the times the radiation reached the antennas can be undeterminable. In other words phase delay can have an ambiguity because wavelengths that are missed can be undetectable. The accuracy of phase delay can be represented as 

Group delay techniques can measure the time delay between times of arrival directly. Group delay does not have the ambiguity found in phase delay but group delay can be less accurate than phase delay. The accuracy of group delay can be represented as

The SNR of the receivers i.e. the antennas of the interferometer can be determined by the fraction of the transmitted energy intercepted by the antenna divided by the intrinsic noise of the antenna pre amplifier. For dish antennas the energy that is received can be proportional to the transmitted energy density per unit angle multiplied by the geometric angle at which the antenna is visible from the satellite. This formula can be adjusted for attenuation in atmosphere and in the receiver tract. The noise of the receiver can be approximated by the thermal noise of the ideal receiver. Combining these parameters the SNR of the receiver can be estimated as

In one example the signals from the signal source can be received via at least two elements of a phased array at the navigation device. The at least two elements of the phased array can be oriented at substantially the same angle and separated by the predefined distance.

In one example the navigation device can comprise an inertial navigation system INS . In another example the navigation device can further be configured to measure the orientation of the at least two antennas of the navigation device using a plurality of LOBs for the at least two antennas of the navigation device with respect to a plurality of signal sources. In yet another example the at least two antennas of the navigation device can comprise elements of an interferometer or a phase array that is used to determine the delay between receiving the signals from the signal source.

In one aspect the delay between receiving the signals from the signal source can be at least one of a phase delay or a group delay. In another aspect the navigation device can operate within a self propelled guided weapon or a vehicle. In yet another aspect the delay between the signals being received at the at least two antennas from the signal source can be represented by c t wherein c is the speed of light and t is a difference between times of arrival for the signals that are received from the signal source.

In one configuration c t is equal to d cos wherein d represents the predefined distance between the at least two antennas and represents the LOB of the at least two antennas with respect to the signal source. In another configuration an accuracy of the delay can be represented by

In one aspect the method further comprises measuring the orientation of the at least two antennas via an inertial navigation system INS wherein the INS navigates one of a vehicle or a self propelled guided weapon. In another aspect the method can further comprise measuring the orientation of the at least two antennas in order to reduce drift of one or more gyroscopes or accelerometers included in the INS. In yet another aspect the method can further comprise measuring the orientation of the at least two antennas of the interferometer using multiple LOBs of the interferometer with respect to multiple signal sources.

In one example the method can further comprise the operations of calculating at least one of a phase delay or a group delay between receiving the signals at the at least two antennas of the interferometer from the signal source and determining the LOB of the interferometer with respect to the signal source based on the phase delay or the group delay. In another example the method can further comprise determining the known location of the signal source using an almanac.

In one example the signal source is at least one of a geostationary Earth orbit GEO satellite a medium Earth orbit MEO satellite a low Earth orbit LEO satellite or a ground transmitter. In another example the signal source includes a non cooperative satellite or a cooperative satellite. In yet another example the at least two antennas form an interferometer or a phase array that can be used to determine the delay between receiving the signals at the at least two antennas from the signal source .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The satellite may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example or exemplary means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example or the word exemplary in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

