---

title: 3D sports playbook
abstract: This document generally describes techniques, methods, systems, and computer program products for providing a three-dimensional (“3D”) sports playbook. Such a playbook may permit someone like a football, basketball, or soccer coach to see a play executed in a classic X's and O's overhead two-dimensional (“2D”) view, and also in a 3D view.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09364747&OS=09364747&RS=09364747
owner: MOTI Sports, Inc.
number: 09364747
owner_city: Plymouth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140212
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 406 317 filed Feb. 27 2012 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. patent application No. 61 446 948 filed Feb. 25 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This document generally describes techniques methods systems and computer program products for providing a 3D sports playbook.

Coaches of various sports like football have used playbooks to design and implement plays for their teams. For example a playbook for a football team can include various football plays such as offensive plays e.g. running plays passing plays and defensive plays e.g. blitz plays pass defense plays . A play includes a coordinated sequence of actions by some or all members of a team. Plays can be depicted in a playbook with icons e.g. X s and O s representing players and with other marks indicating various actions taken by each player. For example a football play can depict routes that are run by players as lines extending from a starting position to an end position for each player as part of the play.

This document generally describes techniques methods systems and computer program products for providing a three dimensional 3D sports playbook. Such a playbook may permit someone like a football basketball or soccer coach to see a play executed in a classic X s and O s overhead two dimensional 2D view and also in a 3D view. In either view the players can be rendered as life like players or as icons that are representative of players but that do not resemble actual players. In addition the coach can see the play as if viewing the play from the perspective of one of the players. For example a football coach can have the play played out where a camera view can represent a view that a pulling guard sees as the play is run according to its planned execution so as to obtain an appreciation for what the guard will see.

In certain implementations the execution by each player can be set so that the play runs the same each time. In other examples the execution of each player may vary e.g. players can do a better or worse job so that a coach can see variability that may occur when the play is actually executed. A coach may also apply ability levels to each of the simulated players so as to affect how well and how consistently they execute the play. For example a large and talented lineman in football may be made to push his opponent farther backward than would a smaller less able lineman. Likewise test information for each player may be input so that for example the smaller lineman will reach the corner faster when pulling will than a larger slower lineman.

In one implementation a computer implemented method includes receiving at a computing device user input to display a sports play that involves a plurality of players displaying by the computing device the play in both a 2D interface and a 3D interface using data associated with the play and the plurality of players in response to an indication for the 3D interface to use a camera view that follows a particular player from among the plurality of players adjusting the camera view of the 3D interface based on a location of the particular player in the play and in response to an indication to run the play displaying the plurality of players moving synchronously in the 2D interface and in the 3D interface in a manner determined before the play is run and according to routes associated with the players wherein the 3D interface displays the synchronous motion of the players from the camera view based on the location of the particular player and a route associated with the particular player.

In another implementation a computer program product tangibly embodies in a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions that when executed cause a computing device with a processor to perform operations including receiving at a computing device user input to display a sports play that involves a plurality of players displaying by the computing device the play in both a 2D interface and a 3D interface using data associated with the play and the plurality of players in response to an indication for the 3D interface to use a camera view that follows a particular player from among the plurality of players adjusting the camera view of the 3D interface based on a location of the particular player in the play and in response to an indication to run the play displaying the plurality of players moving synchronously in the 2D interface and in the 3D interface in a manner determined before the play is run and according to routes associated with the players wherein the 3D interface displays the synchronous motion of the players from the camera view based on the location of the particular player and a route associated with the particular player.

In another implementation a computer system includes a computing device that includes at least one processor an input device of the computing device to receive user input to display a sports play that involves a plurality of players a display of the computing device to display the play in both a 2D interface and a 3D interface using data associated with the play and the plurality of players and a 3D playbook application of the computing device to i adjust a camera view of the 3D interface based on a location of a particular player in the play in response receiving an indication for the 3D interface to follow the particular player from among the plurality of players and ii cause the display to present the plurality of players moving synchronously in the 2D interface and in the 3D interface in a manner determined before the play is run and according to routes associated with the players wherein the 3D interface displays the synchronous motion of the players from the camera view based on the location of the particular player and a route associated with the particular player.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Various advantages can be provided by the disclosed techniques systems computer program products and methods. For example a helpful tool for both coaches and players can be provided. For instance coaches can receive an accurate representation in 3D space of how a play will progress specifically with regard to vantage point of various players running the play. Players can more readily visualize their own actions for a play as well as the actions of the other players on the field.

Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document generally describes techniques methods systems and computer program products providing a 3D sports playbook. In particular the 3D playbook can present and animate a 2D play in 3D space according to the players and actions outlined in the 2D play. A user can view plays in 3D space from one or more camera views whether a stationary view e.g. from a point above and behind the play or moving view e.g. from the simulated viewpoint of one of the players in the play . A camera view of a play is a depiction of the play in 3D space from a vantage point in the 3D space generally not from directly above the play. A 2D play is a view from above generally with the players represented by flat icons such as an X for each offensive player and an O for each defensive player. Camera views can be adjusted manually and or automatically. For example a user can adjust a camera view by zooming in and out e.g. using a scroll wheel on a mouse and also by moving the vantage point or viewing angle from which the camera view is provided e.g. moving a mouse . In another example a camera view can be set to automatically follow one or more players while a play is run animated in 3D space. A variety of following camera views can be provided such as a point of view for the player being followed e.g. a helmet camera view and or a camera view from behind the player that focuses on the player.

Changes to a play made in 2D space can be dynamically and automatically reflected in a 3D rendering and or animation of a play. For instance 2D and 3D depictions of a play can be based on common data e.g. player data route data so that a change in the data such as moving a player s position and or route is automatically reflected in both 2D and 3D depictions on the fly. For example in a football play if a wide receiver is moved from the left side of the field to the right side of the field in a 2D depiction of a play this change in positioning can be automatically reflected in the 3D rendering of the play. In another example if a running back s route is changed in the 2D depiction of a play the change in the players route can automatically be reflected in the 3D rendering and animation of the play.

Changes to a play made in 3D space can also be dynamically and automatically reflected in a 2D depiction of the play. For example if a user selects a player in 3D space and moves the player to a different location the relocation of this player can be reflected in the 2D depiction of the play. Changes made to plays in 2D and or 3D space can be saved and retrieved for later viewing editing.

The 2D and 3D interfaces and provide graphical elements that correspond to players routes and the field with which a user can interact through any of a variety of input devices e.g. mouse keyboard . For example the player is a graphical element that user can select and drag to a different location in the 2D depiction of the play. In another example the route is a graphical element a user can edit and move to a different location in the 2D depiction of the play. Such changes to the player and or the route can be reflected in the 3D rendering of the play in the 3D interface . For example if the player is moved to a new location then the corresponding player can be automatically moved to a corresponding location in the 3D interface . Similarly the player can be moved to a different location in the 3D interface and the corresponding player can be automatically moved to a corresponding location in the 2D interface .

A field box depicted in the 2D interface is another graphical element with which users can interact. For example the field box can be selected and dragged to the right so that the center lines up on the left hash mark of the field. In response to such user interaction the players can line up on the left hash mark in the 3D interface . The field box can provide a convenient way for adjusting the location at which a play is taking play on the field.

Each of these graphical elements can correspond to one or more data elements such as a data object and can have corresponding properties that define various attributes of the elements. For example players e.g. player can have a variety of corresponding properties such as properties regarding their name speed e.g. running speed size e.g. height and or appearance e.g. an image of the player a 3D model of the player a 3D motion capture model of the player performing various actions . In another example routes e.g. route can have a variety of corresponding properties such as properties regarding timing for the route e.g. delay one second at the start of the play before running the route and or speed of the route e.g. perform route at half speed . In a further example a field box e.g. the field box can have a variety of properties such as a location of the field box relative to the field e.g. field box located at 10 yard line .

When a graphical element is selected e.g. has focus properties corresponding to the graphical element can be presented in the properties tab of the application. In the example screenshot the properties displayed in the properties tab are properties associated with the 3D interface . These properties include a property for the type of camera view used in the 3D interface to render a play. In the depicted example the camera view is set to free meaning that a user is able to dynamically toggle the camera view in the 3D interface through various inputs such as moving a pointer e.g. moving a mouse . In the example screenshot the camera is positioned above and behind the offense in the 3D interface . Other properties displayed in the properties tab for the 3D interface include adjustable uniform colors for the teams depicted on the field.

Animation of the play in the 3D interface and in the 2D interface can be controlled using buttons . The buttons include a record button a rewind button and a play button. The record button can be used to record actions for a play such as routes for various players to run as part of a play. The rewind button can rewind playback to the beginning of the play. And the play button can cause the play to be run according to the actions e.g. routes depicted in the 2D interface for the play although not depicted in the screenshot actions can also be depicted in the 3D interface . Animation of a play can cause players to move according to the designated actions e.g. routes in both the 2D interface and the 3D interface . For instance the black circle for the player in the 2D interface and the 3D representation of the player in the 3D interface can move in sync according to the route when the play is run after the play button is pressed .

The example screenshot also depicts a table of contents pane that provides an organized and expandable display of plays formations and print layouts. In the depicted example the table of contents pane displays a library of formations for defense and offense. Formations can serve as templates from which plays can be constructed. For example instead of having to place individual players for each play that will be constructed previously created formations can be used as a starting point for play creation. Like plays formations can be created and displayed in both the 2D interface and 3D interface .

The plays can be organized in the pane using the expandable folders. For example a user can designate various categories of plays using folders and can organize plays by placing plays in corresponding folders. For instance the folder Running Wild includes two plays WishBone and WishBone . 

Concurrently and synchronously with movement of the player in 2D space the corresponding 3D player moves along the route in 3D space along with the movement of the other players along their respective routes . Using a camera view that automatically follows behind the player the 3D interface depicts the player midway through running the route . In this example the camera view of the 3D interface is attached to the player and follows the player without further action from the user. This feature can provide a helpful tool for both coaches and players. For instance coaches can receive an accurate representation in 3D space of how a play will progress specifically with regard to vantage point of various players running the play. Players can more readily visualize their own actions for a play as well as the actions of the other players on the field.

A user can drag the animation progress indicator to toggle the play forward or backward. When the progress indicator is dragged the players move to corresponding locations along their respective routes in the 2D and 3D interface and .

The computing device includes a 3D playbook application that is configured to present plays in a 2D and 3D interface similar to the interfaces and described above with regard to . The 3D playbook application and its components can be implemented in hardware e.g. application specific integrated circuit ASIC and or software e.g. instructions that are executable by one or more computer processors . The 3D playbook application can include various components such as a 3D graphics engine e.g. OGRE 3D graphics engine and a 3D playbook application programming interface API . The 3D graphics engine can render 3D graphics for a 3D interface of the 3D playbook application and the 3D playbook API can include various instructions and or data for performing the features described above with regard to .

The computing device also includes an input device e.g. a mouse a microphone a touch sensitive screen and a display e.g. a computer monitor a mobile device screen that are configured to receive user input for and to provide output from the 3D playbook application .

The computing device can access data used for the 3D playbook application from a data repository e.g. a database a file system . The data repository can be local to and or remote from the computer device . The data repository can include a variety of data that may be used by the 3D playbook application such as data regarding plays formations routes and or players .

The computing device can also include an input output I O interface e.g. an Ethernet card a wifi card that is configured to enable communication between the computing device and other computing devices over a network . The network can be any of a variety of computer networks such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless network the Internet a virtual private network VPN an optical network or any combination thereof. The computing device can communicate with various computing devices such as computer server systems and over the network to provide the 3D playbook application to a user of the computing device. For example the 3D playbook application can be a web based application that is hosted on the computer server system and that is downloaded by the computing device . In another example some or all of the data in the data repository can be stored on and served by the computer server system to the computing device over the network .

The example technique starts at step by receiving input to display a play from a playbook. For example input can be received in response to a user selecting a play from the list of plays provided in the pane as described above with regard to . The play and data associated with the play e.g. player data route data can be retrieved step . For example the computing device can retrieve the play and other associated data from the data repository described above with regard to . The play is displayed in a 2D interface and a 3D interface using the retrieved data step . For example a play is displayed in the 2D interface and the 3D interface as described above with regard to .

An indication can be received for the 3D interface to follow a particular player that is part of the displayed play step . For example depicts a user selecting the player in the 2D interface and setting the property for the camera view in the 3D interface to follow the corresponding 3D player . The camera view in the 3D interface can be adjusted based on a location of the particular player in the play step . For example depicts the camera view for the 3D interface being adjusted to be behind the player and depicts the camera view for the 3D interface being adjusted to be a point of view helmet cam for the player .

An indication is received to run the play step . For example a user can select a play button for the play as described above with regard to . In response to receiving the indication to run the play the players can be displayed as moving synchronously across the 2D and 3D interfaces according to respective routes for the players step . The display in the 3D interface can be based on the location of the particular player and a route associated with the particular player step . For example depict the camera view in the 3D interface following the player while the players in the 2D interface and the 3D interface move in synch. The technique can end after step .

Sports other than football can be provided in 3D playbooks such as soccer ice hockey lacrosse basketball baseball softball volleyball water polo and or rugby.

Video files can be generated and exported based on animation presented in a 2D interface and or a 3D interface. Video compilations can be generated for particular players and or for particular positions. For example a collection of video files or a single video file for a running back position can be generated from a playbook so that there is a video for each play that involves the running back position. Such player position specific video files can be generated using a camera view that is attached to the player position e.g. point of view camera behind player camera view . Similarly separate video files and or collections of video files for each player on a team can be produced for an individual play and or for all of the plays within a playbook.

A 3D playbook can also support multiple 3D interfaces. For example multiple separate camera view can be displayed simultaneously in different 3D interfaces. For example three 3D interfaces can be used to display a play as it progresses at a bird s eye view a first point of view camera angle from a first player s view and a second point of view camera from a second player s view. In another example a separate 3D interface can be provided to simultaneously display the point of view for each player of a team as they progress through a play. The separate 3D interfaces can be labeled to indicate what is being shown in each interface.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. Additionally the processor may be implemented using any of a number of architectures. For example the processor may be a CISC Complex Instruction Set Computers processor a RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer processor or a MISC Minimal Instruction Set Computer processor. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

The example technique starts at step by receiving input to display a play from a playbook. For example input can be received in response to a user selecting a play from the list of plays provided in the pane as described above with regard to . The play and data associated with the play e.g. player data route data can be retrieved step . For example the computing device can retrieve the play and other associated data from the data repository described above with regard to . The play can be displayed and or animated in a 2D interface and a 3D interface using the retrieved data step . For example a play is displayed and animated in the 2D interface and the 3D interface as described above with regard to .

Input can be received through the 2D interface that causes at least a portion of the play to be changed e.g. change formation adjust routes adjust player attributes step . For example depicts a screenshot in which a user moves the player and the player s route further into the backfield in the 2D interface . In response to receiving the input the display in the 3D interface can be automatically updated to reflect the change to the play step . For example the screenshot in depicts the 3D interface being updated to reflect the change in the position of the player based on the change made to the play in the 2D interface .

The example technique starts at step by receiving input to display a play from a playbook. For example input can be received in response to a user selecting a play from the list of plays provided in the pane as described above with regard to . The play and data associated with the play e.g. player data route data can be retrieved step . For example the computing device can retrieve the play and other associated data from the data repository described above with regard to . The play can be displayed and or animated in a 2D interface and a 3D interface using the retrieved data step . For example a play is displayed and animated in the 2D interface and the 3D interface as described above with regard to .

Input can be received through the 3D interface that causes at least a portion of the play to be changed e.g. drag and drop player to different location in 3D space adjust route and or timing of route in 3D change formation adjust player attributes step . For example a user can adjust a route alone which the player is moving in the 3D interface of the screenshot in . In response to receiving the input the display in the 2D interface can be automatically updated to reflect the change to the play step . For example the 2D interface can be updated to depict the player and the route moved further into the backfield for the play based on the changes in the 3D interface as depicted in the screenshot in .

The example technique starts at step by receiving input to display a play from a playbook. For example input can be received in response to a user selecting a play from the list of plays provided in the pane as described above with regard to . The play associated routes and route attributes can be retrieved step . For example the computing device can retrieve the play associated routes and route attributes from the data repository described above with regard to . Attributes for the players in the play can also be retrieved step . For example the computing device can retrieve the player attributes from the data repository described above with regard to . The play can be displayed and or animated in a 2D interface and a 3D interface using the retrieved data step . For example a play is displayed and animated in the 2D interface and the 3D interface as described above with regard to .

Movement in the 2D interface and the 3D interface of at least some of the players can be adjusted based on the retrieved route attributes and or the player attributes step . For example player attributes can include a variety of details regarding a player and how that player may physically move such as a player s size speed ability level and or appearance. Route attributes can include a variety of details regarding how a route is to be run such as timing of the route and or speeds at which various portions of the route should be run. The movement of players along routes of a play can be adjusted in a 2D and a 3D interface such as the 2D interface and the 3D interface described above with regard to based on the particular routes that are being run and the players that are running them.

In some implementations variability can be applied to at least a portion of the players in the play step . Such variability can be used to account for variances in performance and can allow for a user to view various scenarios that may arise when a given play is run. For example a wide receiver s route can be varied so that the receiver makes a cut earlier than expected along the route. Such a variability can be used to adjust the movement in the 2D and 3D interfaces for the at least a portion of the players in the play step . The movement of players along routes of a play can be adjusted in a 2D and a 3D interface such as the 2D interface and the 3D interface described above with regard to based on the applied variability so as to allow users to view how possible scenarios for a play in both 2D and 3D space.

The example technique starts at step by receiving input to generate player and or position videos from a playbook. For example input can be received in association with the playbook presented in the pane as depicted in that requests one or more position player videos to be generated. The plays and associated data for the playbook can be retrieved step . For example the computing device can retrieve the plays associated routes route attributes and player attributes for the plays in the playbook from the data repository described above with regard to . Information describing the playbook and one or more of the plays can be displayed in a 2D interface and a 3D interface step . For example a first play from the playbook can be displayed in the 2D interface and the 3D interface as described above with regard to .

A user selection of one of more of the players and or positions can be received step . For example the user can select the player from the 3D interface and or the player from the 2D interface as depicted above with regard to . For each of the selected players positions a video can be generated that includes movement of players along routes in the 2D interface and the 3D interface for the plays from the playbook step . For example if the player is selected a video can be generated that includes each of the plays from a playbook or a portion of the playbook as run from the perspective of the player in the 3D interface . Such a video can also include the plays animated in the 2D interface as described above with regard to . Such a video may be generated in any of a variety of appropriate video formats such as a .mov format and or a .mpeg2 format. Such a video may include chapters segments that each correspond to a separate play from a playbook. Each chapter segment can include the play run multiple times at varied speeds so that a player watching the video can have ample time to study the play. Such a video may include one or more separate video files. The generated videos can be output step . For example the computing device can display the videos on the display provide them to the computer server system and or over the network and or save them locally to a storage device used by the computing device .

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN peer to peer networks having ad hoc or static members grid computing infrastructures and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Although a few implementations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. Moreover other mechanisms for providing a 3D playbook may be used. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

