---

title: Circuit arrangement for modeling transistor layout characteristics
abstract: One or more circuit arrangements and techniques for modeling are provided. In some embodiments, a circuit arrangement includes at least one of a first current source, a second current source, a first diode, a second diode, and a switching component. In some embodiments, the switching component includes a bipolar junction transistor (BJT). In some embodiments, the circuit arrangement is integrated into a metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) device. When the circuit arrangement is integrated into a MOS device, at least one of a substrate current leakage, a junction breakdown, or a diode reverse recovery (DRR) effect is predictable for the MOS device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507897&OS=09507897&RS=09507897
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09507897
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140812
---
This application is a non provisional filing of and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 62 012 309 filed on Jun. 14 2014 and titled CIRCUIT ARRANGEMENT FOR MODELING which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modeling may be implemented for resource conservation and or other purposes such as to test a device before a physical manifestation of the device is produced. For example a circuit comprising one or more metal oxide semiconductors MOS can be designed within a design kit environment. A design cycle of the circuit can comprise at least one of schematic design of the circuit pre simulation of the schematic physical layout design of the circuit verification between the schematic and the physical layout or simulation of the physical layout.

The following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the provided subject matter. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. For example the formation of a first feature over or on a second feature in the description that follows may include embodiments in which the first and second features are formed in direct contact and may also include embodiments in which additional features may be formed between the first and second features such that the first and second features may not be in direct contact. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

Further spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. The spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. The apparatus may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein may likewise be interpreted accordingly.

One or more circuit arrangements and techniques for modeling are provided. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement comprises a unified macro model. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement comprises a first current source a second current source a first diode a second diode and a switching component such as a bipolar junction transistor BJT or an insulated gate bipolar transistor IGBT etc. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement is used to model at least one of current leakage junction breakdown or diode reverse recovery DRR effect. In some embodiments the DRR effect is modeled from a forward current of the switching component. In some embodiments the junction breakdown includes a safe operation range check for the switching component. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement is applied to a multi terminal device such as a metal oxide semiconductor MOS device comprising a BJT. In some embodiments the BJT is a parasitic BJT. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement adopts a modular concept to save modeling effort and reduce an impact on the MOS model flow. In some embodiments when the circuit arrangement is integrated into a MOS device at least one of current leakage junction breakdown or DRR effect is predictable for the MOS device.

In some embodiments at least one of the first current source the second current source the first diode the switching component or the second diode is electrically connected to at least one of a first node a second node or a third node as illustrated in . In some embodiments at least one of the first current source the first diode or the switching component is electrically connected to the first node . In some embodiments at least one of the first current source the second current source the first diode the switching component or the second diode is electrically connected to the second node . In some embodiments at least one of the second current source the switching component or the second diode is electrically connected to the third node . In some embodiments the first current source and the first diode are electrically connected in parallel. In some embodiments the second diode is electrically connected in parallel with the second current source . In some embodiments when the switching component is turned off the first node is electrically isolated from the third node .

In some embodiments the switching component comprises a BJT as illustrated in . In some embodiments the BJT is at least one of a PNP BJT or a NPN BJT. In some embodiments the first current output the first input node and the first switching component node are electrically connected to the first node . In some embodiments the first current input the first output node the second switching component node the second current input and the second output node are electrically connected to the second node . In some embodiments the second input node the second current output and the third switching component node are electrically connected to the third node .

In some embodiments as illustrated in the switching component comprises an insulated gate bipolar transistor IGBT . In some embodiments at least one of the first switching component node the second switching component node or the third switching component node is at least one of an emitter a collector or a base. In some embodiments the second switching component node is a collector. In some embodiments at least one of the first switching component node or the third switching component node is at least one of an emitter or a base. In some embodiments the first current input the first output node and the first switching component node are electrically connected to the first node . In some embodiments the first current output the first input node the second switching component node the second current output and the second input node are electrically connected to the second node . In some embodiments the second output node the second current input and the third switching component node are electrically connected to the third node .

In some embodiments the design of the MOS device comprises at least one of a HVMOS a MuGFET a FinFET or an IGFET. In some embodiments the MOS device comprises at least one of the source region the gate region the drain region or the body region . In some embodiments at least one of the source region the gate region the drain region or the body region comprises at least one terminal. In some embodiments the MOS device comprises at least three terminals.

At a circuit arrangement is integrated into the layout design for the MOS device . In some embodiments at least one of the first node the second node or the third node of the circuit arrangement is electrically connected to at least one of the source region the gate region the drain region or the body region of the MOS device. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement is electrically connected to at least three of the terminals of the MOS device .

At the size of the switching component is scaled. In some embodiments the switching component is scaled based upon at least one of a width of a channel of the MOS device or a length of the channel of the MOS device . In some embodiments the switching component is proportional to at least one of the width or the length of the channel of the MOS device.

At a substrate leakage current is modeled. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement is used to model the substrate leakage current of the MOS device . In some embodiments the switching component models a DC characteristic of the MOS device . In some embodiments a SPICE GUMMEL POON model is used to model the substrate leakage current.

In some embodiments the MOS device will be turned off and a bias will be forced through the switching component to the drain region . In some embodiments the drain region will be biased and the current at the substrate will be modeled. In some embodiments an ID curve for at least one of the current or the bias is obtained. In some embodiments a current to bias relationship is modeled to determine the substrate leakage current. In some embodiments the substrate current leakage is proportional to power loss of the MOS device . In some embodiments the leakage current is tuned for the MOS device . In some embodiments a junction breakdown for the MOS device is modeled based upon the junction breakdown of at least one of the first diode or the second diode .

At a diode reverse recovery DRR characteristic of the MOS device is modeled. In some embodiments the circuit arrangement is used to model the DRR characteristic of the MOS device . In some embodiments the DRR characteristic is determined based upon at least one of a SPICE based model a physical based model or by a measured data based model. In some embodiments at least one of a first junction or a second junction of the switching device is turned off rapidly. In some embodiments after at least one of the first junction or the second junction of the switching device is turned off a temporary residual forward conduction causes an excess charge to be stored in at least one of the first junction or the second junction of the switching device . The excess charge causes a reverse current to flow in at least one of the first current source or the second current source until the excess charge is depleted. In some embodiments at least one of the first current source or the second current source is used to model the DRR characteristic of the MOS device based on the DC current from the switching component . In some embodiments the DC current is a forward DC current. In some embodiments the switching component is turned off and at least one of the first current source or the second current source is used to model the DRR characteristic.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

According to some embodiments a circuit arrangement is provided. The circuit arrangement comprises a first current source having a first current input and a first current output a second current source having a second current input and a second current output a first diode having a first input node and a first output node a switching component having a first switching component node a second switching component node and a third switching component node a second diode having a second input node and a second output node a first node electrically connected to the first current source the first diode and the switching component a second node electrically connected to the first current source the second current source the first diode the switching component and the second diode and a third node electrically connected to the switching component the second current source and the second diode.

According to some embodiments a system is provided. The system comprises a circuit arrangement and a MOS device. The circuit arrangement comprises a first current source having a first current input and a first current output a second current source having a second current input and a second current output a first diode having a first input node and a first output node a switching component having a first switching component node a second switching component node and a third switching component node a second diode having a second input node and a second output node a first node electrically connected to the first current source the first diode and the switching component a second node electrically connected to the first current source the second current source the first diode the switching component and the second diode and a third node electrically connected to the switching component the second current source and the second diode. The MOS device is electrically connected to at least one of the first node the second node or the third node of the circuit arrangement.

According to some embodiments a method of modeling a metal oxide semiconductor MOS device is provided. The method comprises designing a MOS device integrating a circuit arrangement into a layout of the MOS device modeling a diode reverse recovery effect and modeling a substrate leakage current. The circuit arrangement comprises a first current source a second current source a first diode a second diode and a switching component disposed between the first diode and the second diode.

The foregoing outlines features of several embodiments so that those skilled in the art may better understand the aspects of the present disclosure. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that they may readily use the present disclosure as a basis for designing or modifying other processes and structures for carrying out the same purposes and or achieving the same advantages of the embodiments introduced herein. Those skilled in the art should also realize that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

