---

title: Location driven association of client devices to access points
abstract: A method may determine the location and/or motion of a client device. Based on these determinations, the method may 1) delay a potential move of the client device to a new access point until the client device reaches a non-transitional or less dense area or is stationary, 2) delay a potential move of the client device to a new access point while the client device is on the edge of the network environment, 3) compute a probable destination of the client device and wait until this destination is reached before triggering movement to a new access point, 4) reduce the effects caused by shadowing, 5) guide the client device to more proximate access points, and 6) guide the client device to dedicated proximate access points when client devices are relatively motionless. Accordingly, the method dynamically leverages client device location and motion to intelligently assign client devices to access points.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09332477&OS=09332477&RS=09332477
owner: ARUBA NETWORKS, INC.
number: 09332477
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140729
---
The present disclosure relates to using location information of a client device and or a set of access points in a network system to dynamically determine a proper access point for a client device to associate with.

Over the last decade there has been a substantial increase in the use and deployment of wireless client devices from dual mode smartphones to tablets capable of operating in accordance with a particular Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard. With wireless becoming the de facto medium for connectivity among users it has become increasingly important for network systems to intelligently manage connections.

For example multiple access points may jointly serve a common area. Accordingly a client device operating in this area may be able to associate with one from a set of two or more of the access points such that the access points may provide network access to the client device. Although the client device may have many options with respect to access points association to ensure efficient communications the network system must determine an optimal access point for the client device.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding. One or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. Features described in one embodiment may be combined with features described in a different embodiment. In some examples well known structures and devices are described with reference to a block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Herein certain terminology is used to describe features for embodiments of the disclosure. For example the term digital device generally refers to any hardware device that includes processing circuitry running at least one process adapted to control the flow of traffic into the device. Examples of digital devices include a computer a tablet a laptop a desktop a netbook a server a web server an authentication server an authentication authorization accounting AAA server a Domain Name System DNS server a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP server an Internet Protocol IP server a Virtual Private Network VPN server a network policy server a mainframe a television a content receiver a set top box a video gaming console a television peripheral a printer a mobile handset a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless receiver and or transmitter an access point a base station a communication management device a router a switch and or a controller.

It is contemplated that a digital device may include hardware logic such as one or more of the following i processing circuitry ii one or more communication interfaces such as a radio e.g. component that handles the wireless data transmission reception and or a physical connector to support wired connectivity and or iii a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory and or random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive etc. or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive portable hard disk drive or the like.

Herein the terms logic or logic unit are generally defined as hardware and or software. For example as hardware logic may include a processor e.g. a microcontroller a microprocessor a CPU core a programmable gate array an application specific integrated circuit etc. semiconductor memory combinatorial logic or the like. As software logic may be one or more software modules such as executable code in the form of an executable application an application programming interface API a subroutine a function a procedure an object method implementation an applet a servlet a routine source code object code a shared library dynamic load library or one or more instructions. These software modules may be stored in any type of a suitable non transitory storage medium or transitory computer readable transmission medium e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals or digital signals .

Lastly the terms or and and or as used herein are to be interpreted as inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C or A B and or C mean any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C. An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

The network system may be installed distributed in any region or area. For example the access points may be installed in an office building or another similar structure. The location the network system is installed distributed in defines a network environment. The network environment may be described by various characteristics including size location e.g. country state county city etc. and radio frequency RF characteristics of the area e.g. RF interference . The client devices may be mobile devices that may move through and out of the network environment in which the network system is installed. Accordingly as the client devices move through the network environment each of the client devices may move between access points to ensure uninterrupted network access. Processes and techniques for dynamically and intelligently determining a proper access point for a client device to associate with will be described in greater detail below.

Each element of the network system will be described below by way of example. In one or more embodiments the network system may include more or less devices than the devices illustrated in which may be connected to other devices within the network system via wired and or wireless mediums. For example in other embodiments the network system may include other network devices than those shown in .

The access points may be any device that can associate with the client devices to transmit and receive data over wireless channels. Each of the access points may operate on various wireless channels i.e. frequency segments . In one embodiment the access points may correspond to a network device such as a wireless access point a switch a router or any combination thereof. shows a component diagram of the access point according to one embodiment. In other embodiments the access points may include similar or identical components to those shown and described in relation to the access point .

As shown in the access point may comprise one or more of a hardware processor data storage an input output I O interface and device configuration logic . Each of these components of the access point will be described in further detail below.

The data storage of the access point may include a fast read write memory for storing programs and data during performance of operations tasks and a hierarchy of persistent memory such as Read Only Memory ROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM and or Flash memory for example for storing instructions and data needed for the startup and or operation of the access point . In one embodiment the data storage is a distributed set of data storage components. The data storage may store data that is to be transmitted from the access point or data that is received by the access point . For example the data storage of the access point may store data to be forwarded to the client devices or to one or more of the network controllers .

In one embodiment the I O interface corresponds to one or more components used for communicating with other devices e.g. the client devices the network controllers and or other access points via wired or wireless signals. The I O interface may include a wired network interface such as an IEEE 802.3 Ethernet interface and or a wireless interface such as an IEEE 802.11 WiFi interface. The I O interface may communicate with the client devices and the network controllers over corresponding wireless channels in the system . In one embodiment the I O interface facilitates communications between the access point and one or more of the network controllers through the switching fabric . In one embodiment the switching fabric includes a set of network components that facilitate communications between multiple devices. For example the switching fabric may be composed of one or more switches routers hubs etc. These network components that comprise the switching fabric may operate using both wired and wireless mediums.

In some embodiments the I O interface may include one or more antennas for communicating with the client devices the network controllers and or other wireless devices in the network system . For example multiple antennas may be used for forming transmission beams to one or more of the client devices or the network controllers through adjustment of gain and phase values for corresponding antenna transmissions. The generated beams may avoid objects and create an unobstructed path to the client devices and or the network controllers .

In one embodiment the hardware processor is coupled to the data storage and the I O interface . The hardware processor may be any processing device including but not limited to a MIPS ARM class processor a microprocessor a digital signal processor an application specific integrated circuit a microcontroller a state machine or any type of programmable logic array.

In one embodiment the device configuration logic includes one or more functional units implemented using firmware hardware software or a combination thereof for configuring parameters associated with the access point . In one embodiment the device configuration logic may be configured to allow the access point to associate with different client devices .

As described above the other access points may be similarly configured as described above in relation to access point . For example the access points may each comprise a hardware processor data storage an input output I O interface and device configuration logic in a similar fashion as described above in relation to the access point .

In one embodiment the client devices may be any wireless or wired electronic devices capable of receiving and transmitting data over wired and wireless mediums. For example the client devices may be one or more of personal computers laptop computers netbook computers wireless music players portable telephone communication devices smart phones tablets and digital televisions. In one embodiment the client devices are digital devices that include a hardware processor memory hierarchy and input output I O interfaces including a wired and or wireless interface such as an IEEE 802.3 interface. In one embodiment the configuration of the components within the client devices may be similar to those discussed above in relation to the access point . In other embodiments the client devices may include more or less components than those shown in in relation to the access point .

As noted above the client devices may be mobile devices that are free to move through a network environment in which the network system is installed. For example the client device may be a mobile phone. In this example the user of the client device may move from one side of the network environment to another side of the network environment. During this movement the client device may be serviced by various access points that provide network access to the client device . Processes and techniques for dynamically and intelligently determining a proper access point for the client device to associate with as the client device moves through the network environment will be described in greater detail below.

In one embodiment the network controllers are digital devices that include a hardware processor memory hierarchy and input output I O interfaces including a wired and or wireless interface such as an IEEE 802.3 interface. In one embodiment the configuration of the components within the network controllers may be similar to those discussed above in relation to the access point . In other embodiments the network controllers may include more or less components than those shown in in relation to the access point .

In one embodiment the network controllers may be any set of devices that assist the access points in performing network tasks and operations. For example the network controllers may assist in determining a proper access point for a client device to associate. In some embodiments the decision of which access point a client device should associate with is based on various factors including the location of one or more of the client devices the location layout of the access points and load characteristics of the access points . The different processes and techniques for dynamically and intelligently determining a proper access point for a client device to associate with will be described in greater detail below.

Although each of the operations in the method are shown and described in a particular order in other embodiments the operations of the method may be performed in a different order. For example although the operations of the method are shown as being performed sequentially in other embodiments the operations of the method may be performed concurrently or during partially overlapping time periods.

In one embodiment the method may commence at operation with the determination of the layout of the access points in the network environment in which the network system is installed. For example the network system including the access points may be installed in an office building or another structure. shows an example set of access points installed in an office building . In this example a single client device may be active and moving around within the building . Although only one client device is provided in other embodiments multiple client devices may be active and moving throughout the building .

As shown the access points are installed in a main office a hallway and a lobby of the office building . The wireless network access provided by the installed access points may extend past the bounds of the office building and or the individual areas within the office building in which the access points are installed. For example the wireless reach of the access points and or installed in the main office may extend into the hallway the wireless reach of the access point installed in the hallway may extend into both the main office and or the lobby and the wireless reach of the access points and or installed in the lobby may extend into the hallway and or the parking lot . Accordingly at any given location within the building the client device may be capable of associating with multiple access points installed in various areas of the building .

In one embodiment operation may determine the layout of the access points in the network environment based on signal strength values from wireless signals transmitted and detected by the access points . For example the access points may each emit a set of wireless signals in the network environment. These wireless signals may be for the purpose of transmitting data between the corresponding access points and another device and unrelated to the determination of access point layout e.g. application data and or control signals transmitted over an established connection between an access point and another wireless device or the wireless signals may be emitted for the purpose of determining access point layout. Upon detection of these wireless signals an access point may determine a power level of the received signal. Together with a known transmission power of the wireless signals the signal strength values may be used to determine the distance separating the access points and direction of each access point relative to each other in the network environment. In one embodiment the signal strength indicators corresponding to these wireless signals may be received signal strength indicator RSSI values.

In another embodiment the layout of the access points may be determined based on a pre populated access point configuration table or another data structure which describes the physical layout of the access points in the network environment. For example a system administrator may populate a table with a set of distance values and angle measurements describing the arrangement of the access points in the network environment. This access point layout table may have been populated during installation of the access points in the network environment and updated periodically as access points were moved removed or added to the network environment.

In one embodiment layout information determined at operation may also be used to determine edge access points . Edge access points are access points that lie on the outside boundaries of the network environment. For example in the access point may be considered an edge access point based on the location of the access point on the periphery of the network environment.

At operation the location of one or more of the client devices may be determined. Similar to the location of the access points the location of the client devices may be determined based on signal strength readings between the client devices and a set of access points . For example one or more of the access points shown in may record wireless signal strength values for wireless signals emitted by the client device . Alternatively the client device may record signal strength values from one or more access points and record these values. These signal strength values may be used to determine the location of the client device within the building and or relative to the building . For example the location information may include multi dimensional coordinates e.g. x y and z coordinate values relative to a landmark within the building e.g. an installed access point .

In addition to the actual location of the client devices in some embodiments a motion vector for the client devices may be determined at operation . A motion vector describes the physical movement motion of a corresponding client device in the network environment. For example the motion vector may include a speed velocity and or direction of movement values. For instance based on several signal strength readings taken from multiple access points over time operation may determine that the client device is moving at approximately 1.4 meters second i.e. 5.0 kilometers hour 3.1 miles hour and at an angle of 25 degrees relative to an axis as shown in .

Although described in relation to signal strength values in other embodiments the location of client devices including a motion vector may be determined based on any location determination technique. For example in some embodiments satellite positioning systems e.g. Global Positioning System GPS may be used at operation to assist in determining the location of the client devices .

Following the determination of the current location of one or more of the client devices including optionally a motion vector operation may determine whether one or more of the client devices should be moved from a currently associated access point to a new access point . This determination may be made based on various factors and considerations including the location of one or more of the client devices the location layout of the access points time of day week and or load characteristics of the access points as will be described by way of example below.

In some embodiments motion of a client device relative to the access points in the network environment may indicate that movement of the client device is unnecessary or would be of minimal benefit. For example as shown in the client device may be initially at a first location in the building i.e. located in the lobby of the building . In this first location the client device may be associated with the access point based on initial strong signal strength characteristics between the client device and the access point . As shown in which is observed at a later point in time relative to the example shown in the client device may be at a second location in the parking lot . Based on the motion of the client device from the first location to the second location a stronger signal strength value may be observed between the client device and the access point than between the client device and the access point with which the client device is currently associated. These signal strength readings may be observed by operation when determining the location of the client device . Although these stronger signal strength values between the client device and the access point may traditionally indicate that the client device should move from the access point to the access point this movement may be inefficient and unnecessary.

In particular a motion vector describing the motion of the client device from the first location shown in to the second location shown in indicates that the client device is on a trajectory to leave the network environment. In particular since the client device is currently located in the parking lot as shown in and on a trajectory moving away from the access points within the building operation may determine that the client device is likely leaving the building . Accordingly movement of the client device from the access point to the access point will not provide the client device any actual improvement in network access as the client device will likely soon be leaving the network system entirely. In particular since the client device is in the parking lot and moving away from the edge access point the client device will likely be moving to another network e.g. a cellular network or another enterprise network system . Thus any minor improvements in network access for the client device during the short remaining duration in the network system will likely be outweighed by the overhead in moving the client device to the access point and possible interruptions in network service caused by the movement between access point and access point .

In other embodiments when the motion vector indicates that the client device is not traveling away from the building operation may determine that movement between access points and is appropriate. For example although the client device has moved from the first position shown in to the second position shown in the motion vector determined at operation may indicate that the client device is now stably stationed at this second location in the parking lot . This stability or lack of movement out of the network system may be further evidenced by traffic generation by the client device at the second location. Accordingly in this scenario since the motion vector and possibly other criteria indicate a stable location and thus that the client device will not likely be soon leaving the network system operation may determine that the client device should move from the access point to the access point . This movement to the access point allows the client device to have an improved wireless connection since as noted above the client device shares a higher signal quality with the access point than with the access point . Signal quality may be based on signal strength or signal to noise ratios SNR . In these embodiments the signal quality may be based on an average signal strength SNR value a best signal strength SNR value a median signal strength SNR value etc.

In some embodiments the decision regarding movement of the client device between the access point and the edge access point may be based on the time of day and or the time of the week. For example the system may be aware that many people leave the building and the network system at approximately 5 PM each weekday i.e. the end of the work day . Accordingly motion into the parking lot at 5 PM on a Wednesday may further evidence that the client device will be leaving the network system shortly. Accordingly operation may avoid movement of the client device based on this determination that the client device will likely be leaving the network system .

As indicated above operation may intelligently determine if the client device should move between access point and based on the location of the client device on the edge of the network environment the presence absence of movement the presence absence of traffic and or other criteria. Accordingly in this example embodiment operation may avoid unnecessary moves when the benefit to the client device would be limited or negligible.

In some embodiments this avoidance of movement to the edge access point when the client device is in motion to leave the network system may be for a limited time period. For example operation may wait for a predefined time period to determine if the client device has left the network system . In response to the client device not leaving the system after this predefined time period operation may determine that the client device should move to the access point . Accordingly a delay may be used to determine the intentions of the client device before triggering a move to the edge access point .

Similar to the example provided above in some embodiments the location and motion of a client device may be used at operation to determine whether a client device should move between access points . In this example embodiment the traffic characteristics of a region within the network environment and or an access point may be examined to determine whether a client device should be moved from a currently associated access point or whether movement should be delayed avoided.

For example as shown in the client device may be determined to be located at a first location which is within the main office . In the client device may be determined to be located at a second location within the hallway . These first and second locations may be determined over a period of time which results in a corresponding motion vector to be generated at operation that indicates that the client device is moving from the main office in the direction of the lobby via the hallway . Since the client device is moving away from the access point which the client device is currently associated with a corresponding signal strength value corresponding to the client device and the access point may be low in comparison to a signal strength value corresponding to the client device and the access point . In traditional systems this higher signal strength value may cause the client device to immediately move to the access point . This movement ostensibly increases wireless connection quality because the signal strength values between the client device and the access point are better than the signal strength values between the and the access point . However this improvement in connection quality may be limited based on the trajectory of the client device .

In particular the client device may be moving through the hallway to reach the lobby . Since the client device will only be in the hallway for a limited period of time e.g. 5 15 seconds and upon reaching the lobby will be in range of the access points and the movement from the access point to the access point may be fleeting. Namely in some embodiments in which the client device does not spend a significant amount of time in the hallway the client device may only be associated with the access point for a short period of time before the client device moves closer to the access point and makes a corresponding move to this access point .

To eliminate the limited benefits of a short movement to an access point while a client device in transitioning between points of interest operation may examine the motion of the client device and characteristics of a potential access point for movement. For example access points may be categorized based on their location in the network environment. For instance access points in hallways or other locations that client devices only spend a limited amount of time in before locating to a different area serviced by other access points may be categorized as transitional access points . This categorization may be determined defined at operation while determining the layout of the access points in the network system .

In these embodiments when the signal strength value between a client device and a currently associated access point is decreasing while the signal strength value between the client device and a transitional access point is increasing operation examines the motion vector of the client device to determine if the client device should move to the transitional access point . When the motion vector of the client device indicates that the client device is moving towards another area via the area serviced by the transitional access point operation may delay or temporarily avoid movement of the client device . In this embodiment the movement may be delayed until the signal strength value between the client device and the access point in the new destination area is above a threshold e.g. above the signal strength value between the client device and the currently associated access point . Accordingly operation may avoid movement of the client device until the client device is in range of an access point in the new destination area such that the client device may avoid association with the transitional access point .

For example in the client device may be headed through the hallway to the lobby . In this embodiment operation may recognize this motion by examining the motion vector produced at operation and delay movement of the client device . In this example operation may delay movement of the client device until the client device is in range of the access point such that the client device may associate with the access point in this destination location e.g. the lobby . Accordingly operation may avoid the overhead and interruption in moving the client device to the access point for a small period of time by recognizing that the client device is moving through the hallway en route to the lobby . In some embodiments where the motion vector of the client device indicates that the client device is not moving within the hallway operation may move the client device to the access point without delay. As a result movement to a transitional access point is allowed to occur when the corresponding client device is in the transitional area i.e. the hallway for an extended period of time.

In some embodiments operation may take into account shadowing effects when determining an access point for movement of a client device . Shadowing is an effect caused by obstruction of wireless traffic to from a client device . For example a user may place the client device in his her pocket. While in the user s pocket the client device may attempt to communicate with the access point . However wireless signals between the client device and the access point may be partially blocked by the user s body. In this case the body of the user is in the line of sight between the client device and the access point . This blockage may result in reduced signal strength values for wireless signals between the client device and the access point . However this fluctuation in signal strength values may only be in relation to a set of access points that are blocked by the body of the user. Accordingly the client device may be triggered to associate with one of the access points with stronger associated signal strength values with the client device . However these stronger signal strength values are at least partially erroneous as they are based on potentially momentary blockages interferences.

To accommodate these shadowing effects operation may take into account the location of the client device determined at operation . Namely when the location of the client device determined at operation indicates that the client device is not moving operation may determine that the reduction in signal strength values between the client device and the access point may be the result of shadowing. Based on the detection of shadowing effects operation may determine that the client device should not be moved to a new access point and or delay a movement until the effects of shadowing have reduced or been eliminated.

In one embodiment operation may resolve decisions to move a client device to one of a set of access points with similar or identical signal strength characteristics with the client device based on a determined location of the client device . For example as shown in the client device may be located between the access point and the access point . In particular the client device may be 5 meters from the access point and 10 meters from the access point . In this configuration signal strength characteristics for wireless signals between the client device and the access point and wireless signals between the client device and the access point may be identical. For instance the RSSI value for wireless signals between the client device and the access point may be 15 dB while the wireless signals between the client device and the access point may also be 15 dB.

On the basis of the above signal strength values traditional systems may be equally likely to assign the client device to either of the access points or . This tendency is based on the fact that these traditional systems link client devices and access point based solely on the quality of signals between each set of components. When these signals are viewed as equivalent in quality the decision on association may be a random decision. However in one embodiment of the method the decision of association may be based on client device proximity to access points . For instance returning to the example above in relation to since the client device is closer to the access point than the access point i.e. 5 meters vs. 10 meters operation may determine that the client device should move to the access point . Similarly this decision may be based on motion of the client device . For example when a motion vector determined at operation indicates that the client device is moving toward the access point and away from the access point operation may indicate that the client device should associate with the access point . Conversely when a motion vector determined at operation indicates that the client device is moving towards the access point and away from the access point operation may indicate that the client device should associate with the access point . In some embodiments movement may be weighted more highly than a distance between the client device and the access points and . In particular as in the example above even though the client device is currently closer to the access point when the client device is moving closer to the access point operation may determine that this is a more appropriate access point to be associated.

In some embodiments client devices may be moved to access points based on their location and their lack of motion. For example in some embodiments operation may determine that one or more of the client devices are motionless and located in relatively distributed sections of the network environment. For example shows client device situated in proximity to the access points within the building . In this embodiment the client devices may be associated with the access point while the client devices and may be associated with the access point . This association may be based on various factors including signal strength characteristics.

As shown in there are an equal number of client devices and access points . Accordingly there are an adequate number of access points to assign a separate access point to each client device . In one embodiment operation may assign client devices to separate access points when the client devices are determined to be motionless. By assigning each client device to a separate access point operation may ensure that each client device is not hindered by other client devices operating on the same access point .

In one embodiment the assignment of client devices to access points may be based on the location of each of the client devices . For example the closest client device to each access point may be assigned to that corresponding access point . In other embodiments statistical analysis may be used for assignment of client devices to access points . For example a minimization function may be used to ensure that the total distance or the average distance between client devices and associated access points is minimized.

In some embodiments assignment of client devices to dedicated access points may be performed based on the time of day and or the time of week. For example this movement of client devices to dedicated access points may be limited to the night time e.g. after 5 00 PM weekends and or holidays. By limiting dedicated access points during these periods the method ensures a limited possibility of new client devices joining the network system which might not allow a dedication of access points .

Although described above in relation to a dedicated access point for each client device in other embodiments a different amount of client devices may be assigned to access points . For example each access point may be assigned a set of x client devices where x 1 when the client devices are determined to be motionless.

As described above the client devices may be assigned to dedicated access points to ensure even distribution of network traffic load when the client devices are motionless. This distribution ensures higher quality wireless connections and corresponding improved network performance.

Following a determination at operation that movement to a new access point should be avoided delayed the method may return to operation to examine the location and or motion of the client devices . Conversely following a determination at operation that movement to a new access point should occur the corresponding client devices may be marked for movement to a corresponding access point at operation . In this embodiment at operation each of the access points except for the access point selected at operation may be informed to ignore any probe requests from the selected client device . Accordingly when the selected client device transmits a probe request to each of the access points at operation only the access point selected at operation will respond such that the selected client device may associate with this new optimal access point .

As described above the method triggers movement of client devices to new access points based on the location and or motion of the client devices . In particular the method may determine the location of a client device and or whether the client device is stationary or in motion. Based on these determinations the method may 1 delay a potential move of the client device to a new access point until the client device reaches a non transitional or less dense area or is stationary 2 delay a potential move of the client device to a new access point while the client device is on the edge of the network environment 3 compute a probable destination of the client device and wait until this destination is reached before triggering movement of the client device to a new access point 4 reduce the effects caused by shadowing by levering location and motion information 5 guide the client device to more proximate access points when one or more other factors are equal and 6 guide the client device to dedicated proximate access points when client devices are relatively motionless and network usage is low. Accordingly the method provides processes and techniques for dynamically leveraging client device location and motion to intelligently assign client devices to access points .

An embodiment of the invention may be an article of manufacture in which a machine readable medium such as microelectronic memory has stored thereon instructions which program one or more data processing components generically referred to here as a processor to perform the operations described above. In other embodiments some of these operations might be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic e.g. dedicated digital filter blocks and state machines . Those operations might alternatively be performed by any combination of programmed data processing components and fixed hardwired circuit components. Also although the discussion focuses on uplink medium control with respect to frame aggregation it is contemplated that control of other types of messages are applicable.

Any combination of the above features and functionalities may be used in accordance with one or more embodiments. In the foregoing specification embodiments have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

