---

title: Systems and methods for site-wide jackpots
abstract: Systems, methods, and articles of manufacture provide for site-wide and/or community jackpots.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576429&OS=09576429&RS=09576429
owner: Gamesys Ltd.
number: 09576429
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20141121
---
The present application claims benefit and priority to and is a non provisional of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 906 997 filed on Nov. 21 2013 and titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SITE WIDE JACKPOTS the entirety of such application hereby being incorporated by reference herein.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Social and or wagering games of various types such as online skill based games of chance and games of mixed skill and chance are a continued source of entertainment to game players and are often a source of great revenue for gaming companies. One feature that is desirable in wagering games is a shared jackpot event available to certain groups of players or more typically certain groups or banks of machines . Typical progressive and or community jackpot events however are limited in functionality and are well known enough that they often fail to illicit sufficient levels of excitement and or engagement from players.

Embodiments presented herein are descriptive of systems apparatus methods and articles of manufacture for site wide jackpots and or community jackpots. In some embodiments for example a player of a primary wagering game may qualify to play a secondary game such as a site wide secondary game. According to some embodiments the secondary game may comprise a lottery other game of chance game of skill and or game of mixed skill and chance. In some embodiments the earning or winning of the chance to play the secondary game may be based on a probability. The probability may for example be based on a known or estimated house edge of the primary wagering game. In some embodiments the player may choose whether or not and or when to initiate and or play the secondary game. According to some embodiments upon a win in the secondary game a secondary game jackpot may be awarded to the player and or to one or more secondary players e.g. a community jackpot . In some embodiments the awarding of the secondary game jackpot may be conducted based on one or more player eligibility requirements and or activity windows or thresholds. The secondary game jackpot may be split or divided between a plurality of players for example based on individual player activity in the primary game s e.g. during a jackpot eligibility window that initiates before or after the winning of the secondary game jackpot by the winning player .

Throughout the description that follows and unless otherwise specified the following terms may include and or encompass the example meanings provided in this section. These terms and illustrative example meanings are provided to clarify the language selected to describe embodiments both in the specification and in the appended claims and accordingly are not intended to be limiting. While not generally limiting and while not limiting for all described embodiments in some embodiments the terms are specifically limited to the example definitions and or examples provided. Other terms are defined generally throughout the present description.

A game as the term is utilized herein unless otherwise specified may generally comprise any game e.g. wagering or non wagering skill based chance based playable by hand e.g. utilizing non electric physical components boards and or pieces and or electronically playable over a network playable by one or more players in accordance with specified rules. An electronic game may be playable on a Personal Computer PC online in web browsers on a game console and or on a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet computer. Gaming thus generally refers to play of a game e.g. by one or more players .

A slot style game as the term is utilized herein unless otherwise specified generally refers to a game comprising one or more physical and or virtual e.g. simulated slot reels and or positions. While physical and or simulated reels may spin or cycle through a plurality of possible outcomes before landing or stopping on specific symbols representing an outcome of an instance of the game other electronic slot style games may comprise a matrix of outcome positions that are filled or populated with symbols representing an outcome of the instance of the game e.g. typically referred to as cascading or tumbling reel slots . Slot reel outcomes may be populated randomly or pseudo randomly or may be predetermined and or determined based on a predetermined and or desired result and made to appear random. Slot style games are typically games of chance and may comprise casual games social network games and or wagering games .

A casual game as the term is utilized herein unless otherwise specified may generally comprise a game with simple rules with little or no time commitment on the time of a player to play. A casual game may feature for example very simple game play such as a puzzle or Scrabbler game may allow for short bursts of play e.g. during work breaks an ability to quickly reach a final stage and or continuous play without a need to save the game.

A social network game as utilized herein unless otherwise specified generally refers to a type of online game that is played through a social network and in some embodiments may feature multiplayer and or asynchronous game play mechanics. A social network may refer to an online service online community platform and or site that focuses on facilitating the building of social networks or social relations among people. A social network service may for example consist of a representation of each user often a profile his her social links and a variety of additional services. A social network may be web based and provide means for users to interact over the Internet such as e mail and instant messaging. A social network game may in some embodiments be implemented as a web browser and or web client game a Flash or Java scripted game and or may be implemented on one or more mobile platforms such as on portable electronic devices.

A wagering game as the term is utilized herein unless otherwise specified may generally comprise a game in which a player can risk a wager or other consideration such as but not limited to slot style games poker games blackjack baccarat craps roulette lottery bingo keno casino war etc. A wager may comprise a monetary wager in the form of an amount of currency or any other tangible or intangible article having some value which may be risked on an outcome of a wagering game. Gambling or wagering generally refers to play of a wagering game.

The term game provider as utilized herein unless otherwise specified generally refers to an entity or system of components which provides games for play and facilitates play of such game by use of a network such as the Internet or a proprietary or closed networks e.g. an intranet or local or wide area network . For example a game provider may operate a website which provides games in a digital format over the Internet. In some embodiments in which a game comprising a wagering game is provided a game provider may operate a gambling website over which wagers are accepted and results e.g. winnings of wagering games are provided.

As utilized herein the term player may generally refer to any type quantity and or manner of entity associated with the play of a game. In some embodiments a player may comprise an entity conducting play of an online game for example may comprise an entity that desires to play a game e.g. an entity registered and or scheduled to play and or an entity having expressed interest in the play of the game e.g. a spectator and or may comprise an entity that configures manages and or conducts a game. A player may be currently playing a game or have previously played the game or may not yet have initiated play i.e. a player may comprise a potential player e.g. in general and or with respect to a specific game . In some embodiments a player may comprise a user of an interface e.g. whether or not such a player participates in a game or seeks to participate in the game . In some embodiments a player may comprise an individual or group that enters joins logs into registers for and or otherwise access an online game room session server and or other particular instance and or segmentation of an online game.

Some embodiments described herein are associated with a player device or a network device . As utilized herein a player device is a subset of a network device . The network device for example may generally refer to any device that can communicate via a network while the player device may comprise a network device that is owned and or operated by or otherwise associated with a player e.g. a network device specifically configured to permit use thereof by the player such as by receiving login credentials from the player . Examples of player and or network devices may include but are not limited to a PC a computer workstation a computer server a printer a scanner a facsimile machine a copier a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a storage device e.g. a disk drive a hub a router a switch and a modem a video game console or a wireless or cellular telephone. Player and or network devices may in some embodiments comprise one or more network components. In some embodiments a player device may comprise an electronic device configured to initiate conduct facilitate and or otherwise permit player participation in an electronic game.

As utilized herein the term network component may refer to a player or network device or a component piece portion or combination of player or network devices. Examples of network components may include a Static Random Access Memory SRAM device or module a network processor and a network communication path connection port or cable.

In addition some embodiments are associated with a network or a communication network. As utilized herein the terms network and communication network may be used interchangeably and may refer to any object entity component device and or any combination thereof that permits facilitates and or otherwise contributes to or is associated with the transmission of messages packets signals and or other forms of information between and or within one or more network devices. Networks may be or include a plurality of interconnected network devices. In some embodiments networks may be hard wired wireless virtual neural and or any other configuration or type that is or becomes known. Communication networks may include for example devices that communicate directly or indirectly via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet intranet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a cellular telephone network a Bluetooth network a Near Field Communication NFC network a Radio Frequency RF network a Virtual Private Network VPN Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 Token Ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Exemplary protocols include but are not limited to Bluetooth Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS Wideband CDMA WCDMA Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Digital AMPS D AMPS IEEE 802.11 WI FI IEEE 802.3 SAP the best of breed BOB and or system to system S2S .

As utilized herein the terms information and data may be used interchangeably and may refer to any data text voice video image message bit packet pulse tone waveform and or other type or configuration of signal and or information. Information may comprise information packets transmitted for example in accordance with the Internet Protocol Version 6 IPv6 standard. Information may according to some embodiments be compressed encoded encrypted and or otherwise packaged or manipulated in accordance with any method that is or becomes known or practicable.

The term indication as utilized herein unless otherwise specified may generally refer to any indicia and or other information indicative of or associated with a subject item entity and or other object and or idea. As utilized herein the phrases information indicative of and indicia may be used to refer to any information that represents describes and or is otherwise associated with a related entity subject or object. Indicia of information may include for example a code a reference a link a signal an identifier and or any combination thereof and or any other informative representation associated with the information. In some embodiments indicia of information or indicative of the information may be or include the information itself and or any portion or component of the information. In some embodiments an indication may include a request a solicitation a broadcast and or any other form of information gathering and or dissemination.

A session as the term is utilized herein unless otherwise specified may generally comprise a period of time spanning a plurality of event instances e.g. with respect to a communication and or game session or turns of a game the session having a defined start and defined end. An event instance or turn is triggered upon an initiation of or request for at least one result of the game by a player such as an actuation of a start or spin mechanism which initiation causes an outcome to be determined or generated e.g. a random number generator is contacted or communicated with to identify generate or determine a random number to be used to determine a result for the event instance .

As utilized herein the terms outcome and result should be differentiated in the present description in that an outcome is generally a representation of a result typically comprising one or more game elements or game symbols. For example in a fruit themed slot style game a winning outcome i.e. an outcome corresponding to some kind of award prize or payout may comprise a combination of three cherry symbols. The result of this outcome may be a payout of X credits awarded to the player associated with the game. In another example in a game in which a character moves along a game interface from a starting position to a finish position an outcome of the game may comprise a symbol representing one or more movements along the interface and the result corresponding to this outcome may be the particular number and direction of the character s movement e.g. three 3 spaces backwards such that the character ends up further away from the finish line . In a session embodiment a session result may comprise a binary result e.g. a player or game character wins or loses the session and or the particular award or magnitude of award won or earned by the player based on the session e.g. the number of credits awarded to the player . It should be noted that the embodiments described herein encompass awards prizes and payouts which are monetary non monetary tangible or intangible.

As utilized herein the term site wide jackpot is meant to be descriptive of a type of award or prize provided to a plurality of online players. In some embodiments site wide may generally refer to a number of players that are i registered with a gaming system entity and or ii are playing or have played at a particular point or window in time. According to some embodiments a community jackpot may be a particular type of site wide jackpot wherein the group of players is more closely related with respect to some feature or metric. A community of players may comprise for example all players of a particular type or instance of game a group of friends and or players that otherwise have a subset of metrics and or characteristics in common. In some embodiments site wide and or community jackpots as described herein are specifically not progressive jackpots . In other words site wide and or community jackpots may comprise and or be paid from monies or other items of value that are not directly related to or based on wagers from wagering games.

As utilized herein the term virtual currency may generally refer to an in game currency that may be utilized as part of a game or one or more games provided by a game provider as i currency for making wagers and or ii to purchase or access various in game items features or powers e.g. freemium upgrades and or options .

A credit balance as the term is utilized herein unless otherwise specified may generally refer to i a balance of currency whether virtual currency and or real currency usable for making wagers and or purchases in a game and or ii another tracking mechanism for tracking a player s success or advancement in a game by deducting there from points or value for unsuccessful attempts at advancement and adding thereto points or value for successful attempts at advancement.

Some embodiments are descriptive of an array or matrix of symbols or game outcomes. As utilized herein the terms array and matrix generally refer to a group of symbols numbers and or expressions arranged in a plurality of rows and columns or that can be readily and appropriately represented mathematically as being so arranged . In some embodiments the term array is utilized to refer to a multi dimensional matrix or combination of matrices while the term matrix is utilized to refer to a two dimensional set of symbols or numbers e.g. slot reel symbols and or mathematical representations thereof . According to some embodiments such as in the case that an array and or matrix is populated with graphical game symbols the array or matrix may be output and or displayed e.g. transmit to and or rendered on a player device as part of a game session.

Turning first to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise a gaming platform such as a gaming platform via which one or more multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. one or more slot style poker bingo and or other wagering games . In some embodiments the system may comprise a plurality of player devices in communication with and or via a network . In some embodiments a game server may be in communication with the network and or one or more of the player devices . In some embodiments the game server and or the player devices may be in communication with a database . The database may store for example game date e.g. processed and or defined by the game server data associated with players not explicitly shown owning and or operating the player devices and or instructions that cause various devices e.g. the game server and or the player devices to operate in accordance with embodiments described herein.

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described herein. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described herein. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

The player devices in some embodiments may comprise any type or configuration of electronic mobile electronic and or other network and or communication devices or combinations thereof that are or become known or practicable. A first player device may for example comprise one or more PC devices computer workstations e.g. game consoles and or gaming computers tablet computers such as an iPad manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and or cellular and or wireless telephones such as an iPhone also manufactured by Apple Inc. or an Optimus S smart phone manufactured by LG Electronics Inc. of San Diego Calif. and running the Android operating system from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. In some embodiments one or more of the player devices may be specifically utilized and or configured e.g. via specially programmed and or stored instructions such as may define or comprise a software application to communicate with the game server e.g. via the network .

The network may according to some embodiments comprise a LAN WAN cellular telephone network Bluetooth network NFC network and or RF network with communication links between the player devices the game server and or the database . In some embodiments the network may comprise direct communications links between any or all of the components of the system . The game server may for example be directly interfaced or connected to the database via one or more wires cables wireless links and or other network components such network components e.g. communication links comprising portions of the network . In some embodiments the network may comprise one or many other links or network components other than those depicted in . A second player device may for example be connected to the game server via various cell towers routers repeaters ports switches and or other network components that comprise the Internet and or a cellular telephone and or Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network and which comprise portions of the network .

While the network is depicted in as a single object the network may comprise any number type and or configuration of networks that is or becomes known or practicable. According to some embodiments the network may comprise a conglomeration of different sub networks and or network components interconnected directly or indirectly by the components of the system . The network may comprise one or more cellular telephone networks with communication links between the player devices and the game server for example and or may comprise the Internet with communication links between the player devices and the database for example.

According to some embodiments the game server may comprise a device and or system owned and or operated by or on behalf of or for the benefit of a game provider not explicitly shown . The game provider may utilize player and or game information or instructions e.g. stored by the database in some embodiments to host manage analyze design define price conduct and or otherwise provide or cause to be provided one or more games such as online multiplayer games e.g. including site wide and or community jackpots as described herein . In some embodiments the game provider and or a third party not explicitly shown may provide an interface not shown in e.g. the example interfaces of and or herein to and or via the player devices . The interface may be configured according to some embodiments to allow and or facilitate electronic game play by one or more players. In some embodiments the system and or interface provided by the game server may present game data e.g. from the database in such a manner that allows players to participate in one or more online games singularly in with groups and or otherwise . According to some embodiments the game server may cause and or facilitate various functionality and or features of one or more games and or payouts or jackpots thereof described herein.

In some embodiments the database may comprise any type configuration and or quantity of data storage devices that are or become known or practicable. The database may for example comprise an array of optical and or solid state hard drives configured to store player and or game data and or various operating instructions drivers etc. While the database is depicted as a stand alone component of the system in the database may comprise multiple components. In some embodiments a multi component database may be distributed across various devices and or may comprise remotely dispersed components. Any or all of the player devices may comprise the database or a portion thereof for example and or the game server may comprise the database or a portion thereof.

According to some embodiments any or all of the player devices in conjunction with one or more of the game server and or the database e.g. via the network may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods e.g. the method of herein and or one or more portions thereof as described herein.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise a gaming platform such as a platform via which social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. having one or more site wide and or community jackpots as described herein . In some embodiments the system may comprise a plurality of player devices the Internet a load balancer and or a game server cluster . The game server cluster may in some embodiments comprise a plurality of game servers . In some embodiments the system may comprise a cache persistor a Simple Queuing Service SQS device a task scheduler an e mail service device and or a query service device . As depicted in any or all of the various components may be in communication with and or coupled to one or more databases . The system may comprise for example a dynamic DataBase DB a cloud based cache cluster e.g. comprising a game state cache a slot state cache and or a hydra cache a non relational DB a remote DB service a persistence DB and or a reporting DB

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described herein. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described herein. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

According to some embodiments the player devices may be utilized to access e.g. via the Internet and or one or more other networks not explicitly shown content provided by the game server cluster . The game server cluster may for example provide manage host and or conduct various online and or otherwise electronic games such as online bingo slot style games poker and or other games of chance skill and or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the various game servers virtual and or physical of the game server cluster may be configured to provide manage host and or conduct individual instances and or sessions of available game types. A first game server for example may host a first particular session of an online bingo game or tournament a second game server may host a second particular session of an online bingo game or tournament a third game server may facilitate an online poker tournament e.g. and a corresponding plurality of game sessions that comprise the tournament and or a fourth game server may provide an online slots game e.g. by hosting one or more slot game sessions .

In some embodiments the player devices may comprise various components hardware firmware and or software not explicitly shown that facilitate game play and or interaction with the game server cluster . The player device may for example comprise a gaming client such as a software application programmed in Adobe Flash and or HTML 5 that is configured to send requests to and receive responses from one or more of the game servers of the game server cluster . In some embodiments such an application operating on and or via the player devices may be configured in Model View Controller MVC architecture with a communication manager layer responsible for managing the requests to responses from the game server cluster . In some embodiments one or more of the game servers may also or alternatively be configured in a MVC architecture with a communication manager and or communications management layer not explicitly shown in . In some embodiments communications between the player devices and the game server cluster may be conducted in accordance with the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP version 1.1 HTTP 1.1 as published by the Internet Engineering Taskforce IET and the World Wide Web Consortium W3C in RFC 2616 June 1999 .

According to some embodiments communications between the player devices and the game server cluster may be managed and or facilitated by the load balancer . The load balancer may for example route communications from player devices to one or more of the specific game servers depending upon various attributes and or variables such as bandwidth availability e.g. traffic management volumetric load balancing server load e.g. processing load balancing server functionality e.g. contextual awareness availability and or player server history e.g. session awareness stickiness . In some embodiments the load balancer may comprise one or more devices and or services provided by a third party not separately shown in . The load balancer may for example comprise an Elastic Load Balancer ELB service provided by Amazon Web Services LLC of Seattle Wash. According to some embodiments such as in the case that the load balancer comprises the ELB or a similar service the load balancer may manage set determine define and or otherwise influence the number of game servers within the game server cluster . In the case that traffic and or requests from the player devices only require the first and second game servers for example all other game servers may be taken off line may not be initiated and or called and or may otherwise not be required and or utilized in the system . As demand increases and or if performance security and or other issues cause one or more of the first and second game servers to experience detrimental issues the load balancer may call and or bring online one or more of the other game servers depicted in . In the case that each game server comprises an instance of an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC2 service the load balancer may add or remove instances as is or becomes practicable and or desirable.

In some embodiments the load balancer and or the Internet may comprise one or more proxy servers and or devices not shown in via which communications between the player devices and the game server cluster are conducted and or routed. Such proxy servers and or devices may comprise one or more regional game hosting centers for example which may be geographically dispersed and addressable by player devices in a given geographic proximity. In some embodiments the proxy servers and or devices may be located in one or more geographic areas and or jurisdictions while the game server cluster and or certain game servers and or groups of game servers thereof is located in a separate and or remote geographic area and or jurisdiction.

According to some embodiments for specific game types such as bingo the game server cluster may provide game results such as a full set of drawn bingo numbers and or bonus metrics to a controller device not separately shown in that times the release of game result information to the player devices such as by utilizing a broadcaster device also not separately shown in that transmits the time released game results to the player devices e.g. in accordance with the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP suite of communications protocols TCP IP version 4 as defined by Transmission Control Protocol RFC 793 and or Internet Protocol RFC 791 Defense Advance Research Projects Agency DARPA published by the Information Sciences Institute University of Southern California J. Postel ed. September 1981 .

In some embodiments the game server cluster and or one or more of the game servers thereof may be in communication with the dynamic DB . According to some embodiments the dynamic DB may comprise a dynamically scalable database service such as the DyanmoDB service provided by Amazon Web Services LLC. The dynamic DB may for example store information specific to one or more certain game types e.g. slot style games provided by the game server cluster such as to allow permit and or facilitate reporting and or analysis of such information.

According to some embodiments the game server cluster and or one or more of the game servers thereof may be in communication with the cloud based cache cluster . Game state information from the game server cluster may be stored in the game state cache for example slot state e.g. slot game specific state data may be stored in the slot state cache and or other game and or player information e.g. progressive data referral data player rankings audit data may be stored in the hydra cache . In some embodiments the cache persistor may move and or copy data stored in the cloud based cache cluster to the non relational DB . The non relational DB may for example comprise a SimpleDB service provided by Amazon Wed Services LLC. According to some embodiments the game server cluster may generally access the cloud based cache cluster as needed to store and or retrieve game related information. The data stored in the cloud based cache cluster may generally comprise a subset of the newest or freshest data while the cache persistor may archive and or store or move such data to the non relational DB as it ages and or becomes less relevant e.g. once a player logs off once a game session and or tournament ends . The game server cluster may in accordance with some embodiments have access to the non relational DB as needed and or desired. The game servers may for example be initialized with data from the non relational DB and or may store and or retrieve low frequency and or low priority data via the non relational DB

In some embodiments the SQS device may queue and or otherwise manage requests messages events and or other tasks or calls to and or from the server cluster . The SQS device may for example prioritize and or route requests between the game server cluster and the task scheduler . In some embodiments the SQS device may provide mini game and or tournament information to the server cluster . According to some embodiments the task scheduler may initiate communications with the SQS device the e mail service provider e.g. providing e mail lists the remote DB service e.g. providing inserts and or updates and or the persistence DB e.g. providing and or updating game player and or other reporting data e.g. in accordance with one or more schedules.

According to some embodiments the persistence DB may comprise a data store of live environment game and or player data. The game server cluster and or the task scheduler or SQS device may for example store game and or player data to the persistence DB and or may pull and or retrieve data from the persistence DB as needed and or desired. The server cluster may according to some embodiments provide and or retrieve spin and or other game event info and or configuration information via the persistence DB

In some embodiments the reporting DB may be created and or populated based on the persistence DB . On a scheduled and or other basis for example a data transformation and or mapping program may be utilized to pull data from the live environment e.g. the persistence DB into the reporting DB . The query service may then be utilized for example to query the reporting DB without taxing the live environment and or production system directly accessible by the game server cluster .

According to some embodiments any or all of the player devices in conjunction with one or more of the game servers and or the databases e.g. via the network may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods e.g. the method of herein and or one or more portions thereof as described herein.

Turning now to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise and or define a front end architecture of a gaming platform such as a platform via which wagering social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. having one or more site wide and or community jackpots as described herein . In some embodiments the system may comprise a plurality of user devices a plurality of networks e.g. a primary service provider network a secondary service provider network a production network and or a VPN a plurality of routers a plurality of firewall devices a plurality of game servers e.g. web servers application servers messaging broker servers game broadcaster servers chat servers database servers and or management and monitoring servers and or an application delivery controller cluster .

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described herein. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described herein. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

In some embodiments a first user device may comprise an electronic device owned and or operated by a player of an online game not explicitly shown and or by an entity that otherwise accesses online game content and or services externally e.g. requiring external login and or access credentials and or procedures . The first user device may for example be utilized to access content provided by and or via the application delivery controller cluster . In some embodiments the first user device may interface with and or connect to the production network via the primary service provider network and or the secondary service provider network . The primary service provider network and the secondary service provider network may for example load balance and or provide redundant coverage for outage recovery by utilization of a first primary service provider network router a second primary service provider network router a first secondary service provider network router and or a second secondary service provider network router .

According to some embodiments the application delivery controller cluster may be insulated and or protected from the production network by an external firewall cluster . The first user device may for example be required to provide credentials to and or otherwise access the application delivery controller cluster via the external firewall cluster

In some embodiments the application delivery controller cluster may receive via and or from the external firewall cluster and or the production network one or more requests calls transmissions and or commands from the first user device . The first user device may for example submit a call for an online gaming interface e.g. the example interfaces of and or herein to the application delivery controller cluster . In some embodiments the application delivery controller cluster may comprise one or more hardware software and or firmware devices and or modules configured e.g. specially programmed to route events and or responses between the first user device and one or more of the servers . In the case that the first user device is utilized to access an online gaming interface not explicitly shown e.g. the example interfaces of and or herein for example one or more of the web servers e.g. that may provide graphical and or rendering elements for an interface and or other web services and or the application servers e.g. that may provide rule and or logic based programming routines elements and or functions e.g. game play engines may be called and or managed by the application delivery controller cluster .

In some embodiments the messaging broker servers may receive and or retrieve messages from the first user device and or from one or more of the other servers g and perform one or more inter application processes in relation thereto. The messaging broker servers may for example route transform consolidate aggregate store augment and or otherwise process one or more requests in connection with provision of online gaming services to the first user device e.g. facilitating a decoupling of services provided by various applications on and or from the various servers . According to some embodiments the game broadcaster servers may provide scheduled releases of information descriptive of an online game. The game broadcaster servers may for example provide a broadcast feed of bingo numbers slot and or other random and or pseudo random number results that may be accessed by and or transmitted to the first user device e.g. in connection with the play of an online bingo slots and or other game for which broadcast information may be utilized . In some embodiments the chat servers may provide manage and or facilitate communications between the first user device and or first user thereof and one or more other player user devices such as a second user device and or other player user devices not shown in .

According to some embodiments the second user device may generally comprise an electronic device owned and or operated by a user not shown closely affiliated with an entity that operates the system such entity also not shown . An employee e.g. programmer and or Customer Service Representative CSR contractor and or other agent of an online game provider may for example utilize the second user device to interface with the privately accessible VPN . The VPN may for example provide direct access to the application servers the database servers the management and monitoring servers and or the application delivery controller cluster . In some embodiments as depicted in such access may be gated through and or insulated or protected by an internal firewall cluster . The second user device may for example be required to provide credentials to and or otherwise access the application delivery controller cluster and or servers via the internal firewall cluster

In some embodiments the database servers may provide access to one or more databases and or data stores e.g. not shown in for data storage and or retrieval . In some embodiments the management and monitoring servers may provide services such as monitoring reporting troubleshooting analysis configuring etc. to the second user device . The second user device may for example access the management and monitoring servers and or the database servers to run reports descriptive of online gaming operations game play and or game referral setup management and or analysis. According to some embodiments either or both of the user devices in conjunction with one or more of the servers and or the application delivery controller cluster may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods e.g. the method of herein and or one or more portions thereof as described herein.

Utilization of the term server with respect to the servers of the system of is meant solely to ease description of the configuration and or functionality of the servers . The term server is not intended to be limiting with respect to any particular hardware software firmware and or quantities thereof utilized to implement any or all of the servers of the system . Similarly while multiple types and or instances of the severs are depicted in any or all of the servers may be implemented in on and or by one or multiple computer server and or other electronic devices.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise and or define a front end architecture of a gaming platform such as a platform via which wagering social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. having one or more site wide and or community jackpots as described herein . The system may be similar in configuration and or functionality for example to the system of and or one or more portions thereof. In some embodiments the system may comprise a user device a plurality of networks and or environments and or layers e.g. the Internet a Distributed Denial of Service DDoS protection layer a primary transit provider layer a secondary transit provider layer a Pre Production PP environment a live environment a LAN a backend environment a PP backend layer and or a live backend layer a plurality of routers a plurality of firewall devices a plurality of servers e.g. a PP server cluster and or a live server cluster a plurality of switching devices a Terminal Concentrator TC a plurality of hydra services e.g. a PP hydra service and or a live hydra service and or a plurality of Power Distribution Unit PDU devices 

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described herein. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described herein. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access one or more of the PP environment the live environment and or the backend environment via the Internet . In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access the backend environment and or the PP hydra service via the PP backend layer . A PP backend switch device and or a PP backend firewall device may for example gate and or control access to the backend environment and or the PP hydra service via the PP backend layer . In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access the backend environment and or the live hydra service via the live backend layer . A live backend switch device and or a live backend firewall device may for example gate and or control access to the backend environment and or the live hydra service via the live backend layer

According to some embodiments any communications e.g. requests calls and or messages from the user device may be passed through the DDoS protection layer . The DDoS protection layer may for example monitor and or facilitate protection against various forms of cyber attacks including but not limited to DDoS attacks. In some embodiments the DDoS protection layer may comprise and or be in communication with a plurality of DDoS router devices that may be utilized to route and or direct incoming communications e.g. from the user device to appropriate portions of the system .

In some embodiments the DDoS protection layer and or a first DDoS router device may route communications from the user device through and or via a first switch device and or to through and or via a first primary transit provider router device . In some embodiments the first switch device may comprise a device utilized for security switching such as may implement communications in accordance with the Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE communications tunneling protocol described in RFC 2784 Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE published by the Network Working Group NWG in March 2000. The first primary transit provider router device may for example provide access to the PP environment and or the PP server cluster thereof such as via one or more PP firewall devices and or one or more PP switch devices . According to some embodiments the PP switch devices may comprise content switching devices that process and route data e.g. in the data link layer based on data content. In some embodiments the first primary transit provider router device may direct communications to through and or via a PP LAN switch device that provides and or facilitates access to the LAN . The LAN may for example provide private access to and or between the PP environment the live environment and or the backend environment . In some embodiments the first primary transit provider router device and or the PP LAN switch device may direct communications to through and or via a LAN firewall device that provides direct access to either or both of the PP server cluster and the live server cluster

According to some embodiments the DDoS protection layer and or a second DDoS router device may route communications from the user device through and or via a second switch device and or to through and or via a first secondary transit provider router device . In some embodiments the second switch device may comprise a device utilized for security switching such as may implement communications in accordance with the GRE communications tunneling protocol. The first secondary transit provider router device may for example provide access to the live environment and or the live server cluster thereof such as via one or more live firewall devices and or one or more live switch devices . According to some embodiments the live switch devices may comprise content switching devices that process and route data e.g. in the data link layer based on data content. In some embodiments the first secondary transit provider router device may direct communications to through and or via a live LAN switch device that provides and or facilitates access to the LAN . In some embodiments the first secondary transit provider router device and or the live LAN switch device may direct communications to through and or via the LAN firewall device that provides direct access to either or both of the PP server cluster and the live server cluster

In some embodiments the DDoS protection layer and or one or more of a third DDoS router device and or a fourth DDoS router device may route communications from the user device through and or via one or more of the primary transit provider layer and or the secondary transit provider layer . In some embodiments a transit provider switch device may direct swap route and or manage communications between the primary transit provider layer and the secondary transit provider layer . According to some embodiments the transit provider switch device may comprise a switching device that operates in accordance with an Exterior Border Gateway Protocol EBGP e.g. the transit provider switch device may comprise one or more edge or border routers. In some embodiments the first primary transit provider router device the first secondary transit provider router device a second primary transit provider router device and or a second secondary transit provider router device may be utilized to route and or direct communications between i the primary transit provider layer and or the secondary transit provider layer and ii the PP environment and or the live environment

According to some embodiments the PP server cluster and or the PP environment may comprise various hardware software and or firmware that permits a user e.g. of the user device to program edit manage and or otherwise interface with PP game elements and or interfaces e.g. for development and or testing purposes . In some embodiments the PDU devices may generally provide power distribution supply management backup and or conditioning services e.g. to the PP server cluster as is or becomes desired. According to some embodiments additional switch devices may be utilized to distribute balance manage and or control communications to from and or within the PP server cluster

In some embodiments the live server cluster and or the live environment may comprise various hardware software and or firmware that permits a user e.g. of the user device to program edit manage and or otherwise interface with live game elements and or interfaces e.g. for troubleshooting corrective and or live environment management purposes . In some embodiments the PDU devices may generally provide power distribution supply management backup and or conditioning services e.g. to the live server cluster as is or becomes desired. According to some embodiments additional switch devices may be utilized to distribute balance manage and or control communications to from and or within the live server cluster . In some embodiments the TC device may be utilized to manage communications from a variety of data sources such as by providing communication capability between various communications channels not separately depicted in .

According to some embodiments the user device in conjunction with the live server cluster e.g. via the Internet may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods e.g. the method of herein and or one or more portions thereof as described herein.

Turning to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise and or define a back end architecture of a gaming platform such as a platform via which wagering social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. having one or more site wide and or community jackpots as described herein . The system may be utilized in conjunction with the systems if and or herein for example and or may be similar in configuration and or functionality to the backend environment of the system of . In some embodiments the system may comprise a user device a plurality of networks and or environments and or layers e.g. the Internet an ISP an External Firewall Router EXTFW RTR Virtual LAN VLAN an Internet VLAN an Internal External INT EXT VLAN a web VLAN a database VLAN an application VLAN and or an administrator VLAN an external router cluster a plurality of firewall clusters e.g. an external firewall cluster and or an internal firewall cluster a plurality of servers e.g. a server cluster a first spare server pool a second spare server pool database servers hydra servers game controllers ruby servers admin servers monitoring servers and or logging servers a plurality of switches e.g. content switches Storage Area Network SAN switches connectivity switches and or network switches a TC device a SAN storage device and or one or more PDU devices .

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described herein. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described herein. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access and or interface with one or more of the servers via the Internet . In some embodiments the Internet may be linked to the ISP via multiple e.g. redundant connectivity paths e.g. for load balancing security and or failure recovery . According to some embodiments the ISP may be in communication with and or comprise the external router cluster . The external router cluster may route certain requests calls and or transmissions and or users e.g. based on credentials and or other information through the EXTFW RTR VLAN and or through the external firewall cluster for example and or may route certain requests calls and or transmissions and or users e.g. based on credentials and or other information through the Internet VLAN and or through the internal firewall cluster

In the case that a user not shown of the user device comprises an online game player consumer and or other member of the public for example the external router cluster may direct communications through the EXTFW RTR VLAN and or through the external firewall cluster . In the case that the user of the user device comprises a programmer tester employee and or other agent of a game provider and or other entity that operates the system for example the external router cluster may direct communications through the Internet VLAN and or through the internal firewall cluster . In some embodiments access via either or both of the external firewall cluster and or the internal firewall cluster may permit the user device to communicate via the INT EXT VLAN . The INT EXT VLAN may for example provide access to the content switches which may in some embodiments serve content from any or all of the servers to the user device as is or becomes appropriate or desired. In some embodiments the content switches may communicate with the first spare server pool via the web LAN

According to some embodiments private and or other specialized access to the system via the internal firewall cluster may permit the user device to communicate via one or more of the database VLAN the application VLAN and or the admin VLAN . The database VLAN may be utilized for example to access and or communicate with the database servers . In some embodiments the application VLAN may be utilized to access and or communicate with any or all of the hydra servers the game controllers and or the ruby servers

The admin VLAN may allow promote conduct facilitate and or manage a wide variety of communications within the system . The admin VLAN may for example communicatively connect and or couple any or all of the firewalls the servers j the switches the TC device the SAN storage and or the PDU devices . The user device may be utilized in conjunction with the admin servers and or via the admin VLAN for example to define edit adjust manage and or otherwise access settings and or data of the firewalls any or all of the switches the TC device and or the PDU devices . In some embodiments the user device and or the admin servers may be utilized to manage and or access content rules settings and or performance characteristics or preferences for any or all of the servers 

In some embodiments the server cluster may comprise one or more servers and or other electronic controller devices e.g. blade servers configured to provide online gaming data e.g. interfaces outcomes and or results to the user device . According to some embodiments the first spare server pool and or the second spare server pool may comprise one or more server and or other electronic controller devices configured to supplement and or replace the server cluster as needed and or desired e.g. to manage load and or error recovery situations . In some embodiments the database servers may provide and or manage access to stored data such as data stored in and or by the SAN storage device . In some embodiments the hydra servers and or the game controllers may provide online game information such as interfaces results graphics sounds and or other media to the user device e.g. via the application VLAN . In some embodiments the ruby servers may comprise one or more processing devices configured to provide access to one or more programming languages e.g. Ruby and or Application Programming Interface API mechanisms via which the servers and or other portions of the system may be configured to operate e.g. in accordance with specially and or pre programmed instructions written in the programming language and or developed by the API provided by the ruby servers . According to some embodiments the admin servers the monitoring servers and or the logging servers may be utilized and or configured to provide administrative parameter and or metric monitoring and or reporting and or data logging and or audit services respectively.

According to some embodiments the user device in conjunction with one or more of the servers e.g. via the Internet may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods e.g. the method of herein and or one or more portions thereof as described herein.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the method may be performed and or implemented by and or otherwise associated with one or more specialized and or computerized processing devices e.g. the player and or user devices and or the servers and or controller devices of and or herein specialized computers computer terminals computer servers computer systems and or networks and or any combinations thereof e.g. by one or more online game providers and or online gaming player processing devices . In some embodiments the method may be embodied in facilitated by and or otherwise associated with various input mechanisms and or interfaces e.g. the example interfaces of and or herein .

The process and or flow diagrams described herein do not necessarily imply a fixed order to any depicted actions steps and or procedures and embodiments may generally be performed in any order that is practicable unless otherwise and specifically noted. Any of the processes and or methods described herein may be performed and or facilitated by hardware software including microcode firmware or any combination thereof. For example a storage medium e.g. a hard disk Universal Serial Bus USB mass storage device and or Digital Video Disk DVD may store thereon instructions that when executed by a machine such as a computerized processing device result in performance according to any one or more of the embodiments described herein.

In some embodiments the method may comprise facilitating e.g. by a processing device play of a primary wagering game at . The method may comprise for example facilitating by a processing device gameplay of a primary wagering game conducted via a first gaming device of a first player the primary wagering game being conducted in accordance with first stored rules defining one or more probabilities of winning one or more primary wagering game payouts. In some embodiments the primary game may comprise a wagering game such as a slot style poker bingo and or other wagering game variant offered for play via a website network and or via a server client and or gaming application and or device and or any combination thereof.

According to some embodiments the method may comprise evaluating e.g. by the processing device a wager of the primary wagering game at . Some embodiments may comprise for example evaluating by the processing device and based on a probability of the first player winning a chance to play a secondary game a wager made by the first player in the primary wagering game. According to some embodiments each wager in the primary game may trigger an evaluation of a probability of an entry into the secondary game being achieved. According to some embodiments the probability may be based on a type and or characteristic of the primary game such as a house edge of the primary wagering game. The method may comprise for example determining by the processing device and based on a type of wagering game of the primary wagering game the probability of the first player winning the chance to play the secondary game. The higher the house edge for a particular game type for example the more likely it may be i.e. the higher the probability may be set that a player of the primary wagering game achieves or wins a chance to play the secondary game. According to some embodiments the evaluation may comprise operation of a Random Number Generator RNG or the like. In some embodiments the probability of winning a chance may be defined by the following formula 1 where Pis the first probability i.e. the probability of winning a chance to play the secondary game e.g. the chance of winning a key and where Pis a fixed probability value based on the type and or other characteristic of the primary wagering game e.g. P 0.004 for slot style games and or P 0.0008 for other casino style games .

In some embodiments the method may comprise determining e.g. by the processing device a win of a chance to play a secondary game at . The method may comprise for example determining by the processing device and based on the evaluation of the wager that the first player has won a chance to play the secondary game. The result of the evaluation may indicate for example that a result of an RNG and or other random or pseudo random determination meets or exceeds a predetermined win threshold for the secondary game entry.

According to some embodiments the method may comprise providing e.g. by the processing device an indication of the win at . The method may comprise for example providing by the processing device and to the first gaming device of the first player an indication of the winning of the chance to play the secondary game. In some embodiments the indication may comprise a particular graphical element that appears becomes animated and or is otherwise highlighted on a Graphical User Interface GUI presented to the player e.g. the example interfaces of and or herein . According to some embodiments the interface indication may comprise an image or button or other feature represented as a key e.g. that unlocks the secondary game for entry.

In some embodiments the method may comprise receiving e.g. by the processing device and or in response to the providing an activation of the secondary game at . The method may comprise for example receiving by the processing device in response to the providing and from the first player device an indication that the first player desires to activate the chance to play the secondary game. In some embodiments such as in the case that the graphical element e.g. the key from 608 is presented to the player upon achievement of the secondary game entry the player may click on press and or otherwise activate or interact with the feature to indicate a desire to enter the secondary game and or initiate play thereof .

According to some embodiments the method may comprise facilitating e.g. by the processing device play of the secondary game at . The method may comprise for example facilitating by the processing device gameplay of the secondary game conducted via the first gaming device of the first player the secondary game being conducted in accordance with second stored rules defining a probability of winning a secondary game jackpot. In some embodiments while the primary wagering game comprises a wagering game the secondary game may comprise a non wagering game. According to some embodiments any payouts and or jackpots from the secondary game may be established sized and or determined or defined based on metrics that are unrelated or not directly related to the primary wagering game. Secondary game payouts and jackpots may for example be based on marketing dollars and or other predefined and or pre established pools of funds e.g. as opposed to being dynamically determined based on player wagers and or wager contributions i.e. secondary game jackpots may specifically exclude progressive jackpots . According to some embodiments the secondary game may be a game of chance such as a sweepstakes or lottery a game of skill such as an arcade style or simulation game and or a combination thereof i.e. a game of mixed skill and chance . According to some embodiments the secondary game may specifically exclude wagering games i.e. no separate or distinct wager may be placed with respect to the play of the secondary game and while the original wager from the primary wagering game may have provided the opportunity to win the chance to play the secondary game the wager itself and or the magnitude thereof may have no bearing on the secondary game and or jackpots or payouts thereof.

In some embodiments the method may comprise determining e.g. by the processing device a win of the secondary game at . The method may comprise for example determining by the processing device that the first player has won the secondary game jackpot. In some embodiments the winning of the chance to play the secondary game may guarantee a winning outcome of the secondary game. In the case that the secondary game is a straight sweepstakes for example the winning of the chance based on the trigger of the underlying primary game wager may be equivalent to a win of the sweepstakes prize or one or more of the prizes thereof in the case of multiple possible prizes or instances of prizes . In some embodiments the winning of the chance to play the secondary game may have no bearing on the result of the secondary game. The first probability defining whether the chance to play the secondary game may comprise a first value for example while a payout structure of the secondary game may be governed and or defined by one or more other probabilities that are different than the first probability. In some embodiments the probability of a play of the secondary game generating a win may be defined by the following formula 

According to some embodiments the method may comprise awarding e.g. by the processing device and or in response to the determining of the win of the secondary game a secondary game jackpot at . The method may comprise for example awarding via the processing device the secondary game jackpot. In some embodiments the awarding may comprise a site wide and or community award. Players in addition to or even other than the first player may for example share in and or obtain a portion of the jackpot. The method may comprise for example determining by the processing device a plurality of players that qualify to share in the secondary game jackpot and awarding the secondary game jackpot to the first player and at least one second player of the plurality of players. In some embodiments the determining of the plurality of players that qualify to share the secondary game jackpot may comprise determining that each player of the plurality of players satisfied a qualifying wager threshold during a secondary game jackpot qualification period. According to some embodiments such a secondary game jackpot qualification period may initiate upon the determination that the first player has won the secondary game jackpot and conclude after a predetermined amount of time subsequent to the initiation. According to some embodiments such a secondary game jackpot qualification period may conclude upon the determination that the first player has won the secondary game jackpot and initiate a predetermined amount of time prior to the determination of the win. In other words the eligibility window for sharing in the site wide and or community jackpot e.g. trigger by the first player may determine which players share in the jackpot and or to what extent they share in the jackpot. In some embodiments for example a number or amount of wagers and or another metric of wagering activity by all players or players of a particular type or group in a particular time window e.g. five 5 minutes preceding the secondary game win may be utilized to determine a weighted distribution of the site wide and or community jackpot e.g. based on each player s respective wager count sums frequency etc. . In some embodiments such as in the case that the eligibility window is retroactive or historical even players that are not currently playing or logged in when the first player wins the secondary game may share in the jackpot. In some embodiments the site wide and or community jackpot may be awarded and or split or distributed in accordance with the following formula 10 3 where Sis the share of the jackpot for the n player that qualifies for the jackpot.

Referring now to and example interfaces according to some embodiments are shown. In some embodiments the interfaces may comprise one or more web pages web forms database entry forms API objects spreadsheets tables and or applications or portions or combinations thereof or other GUI objects via which a player of an online game may qualify for participate in and or win a secondary game such as a secondary game having a site wide jackpot component as described herein. The interfaces may for example comprise portions of a front end of an online gaming program and or platform programmed and or otherwise configured to execute conduct and or facilitate the method of herein and or portions thereof. In some embodiments the interfaces may be output via a computerized device such as one or more specialized and or computerized processing devices e.g. the player and or user devices and or the servers and or controller devices of and or herein specialized computers computer terminals computer servers computer systems and or networks and or any combinations thereof e.g. by one or more online game providers and or online gaming player processing devices .

According to some embodiments a first example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to a player prior to the player having been identified and or prior to the player having logged in to a player account e.g. an anonymous or guest player . The first example interface may comprise for example a first action button such as the depicted Join Now button a first site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest and or a first site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message prompting the player to login e.g. interface with the first action button to qualify for and or compete in the Community Jackpot Game . According to some embodiments the first example interface may represent a portion of a full interface and or output provided to a player as part of an online gaming experience. Portions of the first example interface not fully depicted in may for example be associated with play of a primary game such as a slot style wagering game titled Nuts Bolts . Other primary games and or game types may be implemented in the not fully depicted portion of the first example interface in various embodiments.

In some embodiments a second example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player after the player has been identified and or in response to the player having logged in to a player account. An activation of and or interaction of the player with the first action button for example may cause and or trigger an outputting of the second example interface . In some embodiments the second example interface may comprise a second action button such as the depicted Cashier button a second site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest a second site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message prompting the player to initiate game play to qualify for and or compete in the Community Jackpot Game and or a first site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game e.g. a secondary game . According to some embodiments the second example interface may depict a status of the secondary site wide jackpot game in which no players of the Community Jackpot Game have yet or currently are qualified to play or win. In some embodiments the logged in player is required to place a wager such as an eligible wager that meets some predetermined criteria and or threshold requirement during a window of eligibility that comprises a particular period of time. In the case that the window of eligibility comprises a rolling period of for example ten 10 minutes the player may have made an eligible wager that at some point during the rolling progression of the window of eligibility has aged enough to disqualify the wager from the window of eligibility .

According to some embodiments a third example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that one or more other players have qualified to play or win the Community Jackpot Game . The third example interface may comprise for example a third action button such as the depicted Cashier button a third site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest a third site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message notifying the player that xxx number of other players have qualified for or won e.g. obtained keys the Community Jackpot Game and or a second site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game . According to some embodiments a state or status of the secondary site wide jackpot game depicted by the third example interface may comprise a state where the current player has not made an eligible wager and or otherwise has not achieved a key to the treasure chest but a number of other players have e.g. and accordingly have earned chances to win the site wide jackpot of which without a key the current player cannot share if won by the other players.

In some embodiments a fourth example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that one or more other players have not yet or currently qualified to play or win the Community Jackpot Game but the current player the player to which the fourth example interface is output or provided is eligible to achieve an entry and or win to the Community Jackpot Game . The fourth example interface may comprise for example a fourth action button such as the depicted Cashier button a fourth site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest a fourth site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message notifying the player that the player should keep playing to win a key and or a third site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game . In some embodiments a state or status of the secondary site wide jackpot game depicted by the fourth example interface may comprise a state where the current player has made an eligible wager but has not yet achieved a key to the treasure chest and no other players have earned keys either.

According to some embodiments a fifth example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that one or more other players have qualified to play or win the Community Jackpot Game have earned or acquired keys to the treasure chest and the current player the player to which the fifth example interface is output or provided is also eligible to achieve an entry and or win to the Community Jackpot Game . The fifth example interface may comprise for example a fifth action button such as the depicted Cashier button a fifth site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest a fifth site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message notifying the player that xxx number of other players have qualified for or won e.g. obtained keys the Community Jackpot Game and that the player should keep playing to win a key and or a fourth site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game . According to some embodiments a state or status of the secondary site wide jackpot game depicted by the fifth example interface may comprise a state where the current player has made an eligible wager and a number of other players have earned keys to the treasure chest meaning that the current player may win a share of the site wide jackpot if won by the other players e.g. utilizing their keys to unlock chances to win the jackpot .

In some embodiments a sixth example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that one or more other players have achieved a win in the Community Jackpot Game and the current player the player to which the sixth example interface is output or provided is eligible for and receives a share of the site wide jackpot from the Community Jackpot Game . The sixth example interface may comprise for example a sixth action button such as the depicted Cashier button a sixth site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest a sixth site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message notifying the player that another player has won the Platinum jackpot and that the current player is to receive a share of xx xxx of the site wide jackpot and or a fifth site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game .

According to some embodiments a seventh example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that one or more other players have achieved a win in the Community Jackpot Game and the current player the player to which the seventh example interface is output or provided is eligible for and receives a share of the site wide jackpot from the Community Jackpot Game and the current player has also achieved a key that may unlock the treasure chest and accordingly has a chance of earning the current player one or more site wide jackpot wins. The seventh example interface may comprise for example a seventh action button such as the depicted Cashier button a seventh site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest along with a key that may be utilized to try and open the treasure chest a seventh site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message notifying the player that another player has won the Platinum jackpot and that the current player is to receive a share of xx xxx of the site wide jackpot and or a sixth site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game .

In some embodiments an eighth example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that the current player has achieved a key representing a chance to play the Community Jackpot Game . The eighth example interface may comprise for example an eighth action button such as the depicted Cashier button an eighth site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest along with a key that may be utilized to try and open the treasure chest an eighth site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message notifying the player that the current player has earned a chance to play the Community Jackpot Game and or a seventh site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game .

According to some embodiments a ninth example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that the current player has utilized a key to play the Community Jackpot Game and lost. The ninth example interface may comprise for example a ninth action button such as the depicted Cashier button a ninth site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted locked treasure chest that in this case was not opened by the key utilized by the player a ninth site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message wishing the current player Good luck in playing the Community Jackpot Game and or an eighth site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game .

In some embodiments a tenth example interface depicted in may comprise a screen display e.g. screen output that is provided and or output to the player once the status of the secondary site wide jackpot game has changed such that the current player has utilized a key to play the Community Jackpot Game and won. The tenth example interface may comprise for example a tenth action button such as the depicted Cashier button a tenth site wide jackpot icon such as the depicted opened treasure chest and depicted value of the treasure earned a tenth site wide jackpot message such as the depicted message wishing the current player Good luck in playing the Community Jackpot Game and or a ninth site wide jackpot value display that depicts the amount of available funds that may be won via the Community Jackpot Game .

While various components of the interfaces have been depicted with respect to certain labels layouts headings titles and or configurations these features have been presented for reference and example only. Other labels layouts headings titles and or configurations may be implemented without deviating from the scope of embodiments herein. Similarly while a certain number of tabs information screens form fields and or data entry options have been presented variations thereof may be practiced in accordance with some embodiments.

Turning to a block diagram of an apparatus according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the apparatus may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any of the player and or user devices and or the servers and or controller devices of and or herein and or may otherwise comprise a portion of the systems of and or herein. The apparatus may for example execute process facilitate and or otherwise be associated with the method of herein and or one or more portions thereof. In some embodiments the apparatus may comprise a processing device an input device an output device a communication device an interface a memory device storing various programs and or instructions and or data and or a cooling device . According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the apparatus may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described herein. Fewer or more components and or various configurations of the components be included in the apparatus without deviating from the scope of embodiments described herein.

According to some embodiments the processing device may be or include any type quantity and or configuration of electronic and or computerized processor that is or becomes known. The processing device may comprise for example an Intel IXP 2800 network processor or an Intel XEON Processor coupled with an Intel E7501 chipset. In some embodiments the processing device may comprise multiple inter connected processors microprocessors and or micro engines. According to some embodiments the processing device and or the apparatus and or portions thereof may be supplied power via a power supply not shown such as a battery an Alternating Current AC source a Direct Current DC source an AC DC adapter solar cells and or an inertial generator. In the case that the apparatus comprises a server such as a blade server necessary power may be supplied via a standard AC outlet power strip surge protector a PDU and or Uninterruptible Power Supply UPS device.

In some embodiments the input device and or the output device are communicatively coupled to the processing device e.g. via wired and or wireless connections and or pathways and they may generally comprise any types or configurations of input and output components and or devices that are or become known respectively. The input device may comprise for example a keyboard that allows an operator of the apparatus to interface with the apparatus e.g. by a player such as to participate in a game having a site wide and or community jackpot feature as described herein . In some embodiments the input device may comprise a sensor configured to provide information such as player input to the apparatus and or the processing device . The output device may according to some embodiments comprise a display screen and or other practicable output component and or device. The output device may for example provide a game interface such as the interface to a player e.g. via a website such as the example interfaces of and or herein . In some embodiments the interface may comprise portions and or components of either or both of the input device and the output device . According to some embodiments the input device and or the output device may for example comprise and or be embodied in an input output and or single device such as a touch screen monitor e.g. that enables both input and output via the interface .

In some embodiments the communication device may comprise any type or configuration of communication device that is or becomes known or practicable. The communication device may for example comprise a network interface card NIC a telephonic device a cellular network device a router a hub a modem and or a communications port or cable. In some embodiments the communication device may be coupled to provide data to a player device not shown in such as in the case that the apparatus is utilized to provide a game interface to a player as described herein. The communication device may for example comprise a cellular telephone network transmission device that sends signals indicative of game interface components to customer and or subscriber handheld mobile and or telephone device. According to some embodiments the communication device may also or alternatively be coupled to the processing device . In some embodiments the communication device may comprise an IR RF Bluetooth and or Wi Fi network device coupled to facilitate communications between the processing device and another device such as a player device and or a third party device .

The memory device may comprise any appropriate information storage device that is or becomes known or available including but not limited to units and or combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage devices and or semiconductor memory devices such as RAM devices Read Only Memory ROM devices Single Data Rate Random Access Memory SDR RAM Double Data Rate Random Access Memory DDR RAM and or Programmable Read Only Memory PROM . The memory device may according to some embodiments store one or more of game instructions interface instructions and or site wide jackpot instructions . In some embodiments the game instructions interface instructions and or site wide jackpot instructions may be utilized by the processing device to provide output information via the output device and or the communication device .

According to some embodiments the game instructions may be operable to cause the processing device to process player data game data tournament data and or prize data . Player data game data tournament data and or prize data received via the input device and or the interface and or the communication device may for example be analyzed sorted filtered decoded decompressed ranked scored plotted and or otherwise processed by the processing device in accordance with the game instructions . In some embodiments player data game data tournament data and or prize data may be fed by the processing device through one or more mathematical and or statistical formulas and or models in accordance with the game instructions to provide online games having features and or functionality in accordance with embodiments described herein.

In some embodiments the interface instructions may be operable to cause the processing device to process player data game data tournament data and or prize data . Player data game data tournament data and or prize data received via the input device and or the interface and or the communication device may for example be analyzed sorted filtered decoded decompressed ranked scored plotted and or otherwise processed by the processing device in accordance with the interface instructions . In some embodiments player data game data tournament data and or prize data may be fed by the processing device through one or more mathematical and or statistical formulas and or models in accordance with the interface instructions to provide indications of site wide jackpot community jackpot and or secondary game chances and or results in accordance with embodiments described herein e.g. by defining and or providing the example interfaces of and or herein .

According to some embodiments the site wide jackpot instructions may be operable to cause the processing device to process player data game data tournament data and or prize data . Player data game data tournament data and or prize data received via the input device and or the interface and or the communication device may for example be analyzed sorted filtered decoded decompressed ranked scored plotted and or otherwise processed by the processing device in accordance with the site wide jackpot instructions . In some embodiments player data game data tournament data and or prize data may be fed by the processing device through one or more mathematical and or statistical formulas and or models in accordance with the site wide jackpot instructions to provide one or more site wide and or community jackpots chances at jackpots and or distributed payouts in accordance with embodiments described herein

Any or all of the exemplary instructions and data types described herein and other practicable types of data may be stored in any number type and or configuration of memory devices that is or becomes known. The memory device may for example comprise one or more data tables or files databases table spaces registers and or other storage structures. In some embodiments multiple databases and or storage structures and or multiple memory devices may be utilized to store information associated with the apparatus . According to some embodiments the memory device may be incorporated into and or otherwise coupled to the apparatus e.g. as shown or may simply be accessible to the apparatus e.g. externally located and or situated .

In some embodiments the apparatus may comprise the cooling device . According to some embodiments the cooling device may be coupled physically thermally and or electrically to the processing device and or to the memory device . The cooling device may for example comprise a fan heat sink heat pipe radiator cold plate and or other cooling component or device or combinations thereof configured to remove heat from portions or components of the apparatus .

Referring now to and perspective diagrams of exemplary data storage devices according to some embodiments are shown. The data storage devices may for example be utilized to store instructions and or data such as the game instructions interface instructions site wide jackpot instructions player data game data tournament data and or prize data each of which is described in reference to herein. In some embodiments instructions stored on the data storage devices may when executed by a processor cause the implementation of and or facilitate the method of and or portions thereof described herein.

According to some embodiments the first data storage device may comprise one or more various types of internal and or external hard drives. The first data storage device may for example comprise a data storage medium that is read interrogated and or otherwise communicatively coupled to and or via a disk reading device . In some embodiments the first data storage device and or the data storage medium may be configured to store information utilizing one or more magnetic inductive and or optical means e.g. magnetic inductive and or optical encoding . The data storage medium depicted as a first data storage medium for example e.g. breakout cross section A may comprise one or more of a polymer layer a magnetic data storage layer a non magnetic layer a magnetic base layer a contact layer and or a substrate layer . According to some embodiments a magnetic read head may be coupled and or disposed to read data from the magnetic data storage layer .

In some embodiments the data storage medium depicted as a second data storage medium for example e.g. breakout cross section B may comprise a plurality of data points disposed with the second data storage medium . The data points may in some embodiments be read and or otherwise interfaced with via a laser enabled read head disposed and or coupled to direct a laser beam through the second data storage medium

In some embodiments the second data storage device may comprise a CD CD ROM DVD Blu Ray Disc and or other type of optically encoded disk and or other storage medium that is or becomes known or practicable. In some embodiments the third data storage device may comprise a USB keyfob dongle and or other type of flash memory data storage device that is or becomes know or practicable. In some embodiments the fourth data storage device may comprise RAM of any type quantity and or configuration that is or becomes practicable and or desirable. In some embodiments the fourth data storage device may comprise an off chip cache such as a Level 2 L2 cache memory device. According to some embodiments the fifth data storage device may comprise an on chip memory device such as a Level 1 L1 cache memory device.

The data storage devices may generally store program instructions code and or modules that when executed by a processing device cause a particular machine to function in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein. The data storage devices depicted in and are representative of a class and or subset of computer readable media that are defined herein as computer readable memory e.g. non transitory memory devices as opposed to transmission devices or media .

The terms computer readable medium and computer readable memory refer to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer and or a processor. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and other specific types of transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Other types of transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM Digital Video Disc DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM a USB memory stick a dongle any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The terms computer readable medium and or tangible media specifically exclude signals waves and wave forms or other intangible or transitory media that may nevertheless be readable by a computer.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols. For a more exhaustive list of protocols the term network is defined above and includes many exemplary protocols that are also applicable here.

In some embodiments one or more specialized machines such as a computerized processing device a server a remote terminal and or a customer device may implement the various practices described herein. A computer system of an game provider may for example comprise various specialized computers that interact to provide for slot style games as described herein.

Numerous embodiments are described in this patent application and are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not and are not intended to be limiting. The presently disclosed invention s are widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed invention s may be practiced with various modifications and alterations such as structural logical software and electrical modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention s may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and or drawings it should be understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described unless expressly specified otherwise.

The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of the invention nor a listing of features of the invention that must be present in all embodiments. It is contemplated however that while some embodiment are not limited by the examples provided herein some embodiments may be specifically bounded or limited by provided examples structures method steps and or sequences. Embodiments having scopes limited by provided examples may also specifically exclude features not explicitly described or contemplated.

Neither the Title set forth at the beginning of the first page of this patent application nor the Abstract set forth at the end of this patent application is to be taken as limiting in any way the scope of the disclosed invention s .

The term product means any machine manufacture and or composition of matter as contemplated by 35 U.S.C. 101 unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments one embodiment and the like mean one or more but not all disclosed embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise.

A reference to another embodiment in describing an embodiment does not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment e.g. an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment unless expressly specified otherwise. Similarly any reference to an alternate alternative and or alternate embodiment is intended to connote one or more possible variations not mutual exclusivity. In other words it is expressly contemplated that alternatives described herein may be utilized and or implemented together unless they inherently are incapable of being utilized together.

The terms including comprising and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term herein means in the present application including the specification its claims and figures and anything which may be incorporated by reference unless expressly specified otherwise.

The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things such as an enumerated list of things means any combination of one or more of those things unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the phrase at least one of a widget a car and a wheel means i a widget ii a car iii a wheel iv a widget and a car v a widget and a wheel vi a car and a wheel or vii a widget a car and a wheel.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on . In some embodiments a first thing being based on a second thing refers specifically to the first thing taking into account the second thing in an explicit manner. In such embodiments for example a processing step based on the local weather which itself is in some manner based on or affected by for example human activity in the rainforests is not based on such human activities because it is not those activities that being explicitly analyzed included taken into account and or processed.

The term whereby is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words that express only the intended result objective or consequence of something that is previously and explicitly recited. Thus when the term whereby is used in a claim the clause or other words that the term whereby modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.

The term wherein as utilized herein does not evidence intended use. The term wherein expressly refers to one or more features inclusive in a particular embodiment and does not imply or include an optional or conditional limitation.

Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than one of a feature e.g. a limitation such as at least one widget covers one widget as well as more than one widget and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim the second claim uses a definite article the to refer to the limitation e.g. the widget this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature and this does not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature e.g. the widget can cover both one widget and more than one widget .

When an ordinal number such as first second third and so on is used as an adjective before a term that ordinal number is used unless expressly specified otherwise merely to indicate a particular feature such as to allow for distinguishing that particular referenced feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example a first widget may be so named merely to allow for distinguishing it in one or more claims from a second widget so as to encompass embodiments in which 1 the first widget is or is the same as the second widget and 2 the first widget is different than or is not identical to the second widget . Thus the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget 1 does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location 2 does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time 3 does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other as in importance or quality and 4 does not indicate that the two referenced widgets are not identical or the same widget. In addition the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.

When a single device or article is described herein more than one device or article whether or not they cooperate may alternatively be used in place of the single device or article that is described. Accordingly the functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device or article whether or not they cooperate .

Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate a single device or article may alternatively be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For example a plurality of computer based devices may be substituted with a single computer based device. Accordingly the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device or article.

The functionality and or the features of a single device that is described may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not explicitly described as having such functionality and or features. Thus other embodiments need not include the described device itself but rather can include the one or more other devices which would in those other embodiments have such functionality features.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a machine in communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for weeks at a time. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply that all or even any of such components and or features are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention s . Unless otherwise specified explicitly no component and or feature is essential or required.

Further although process steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.

Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps that does not indicate that all or even any of the steps are essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly no step is essential or required.

Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components aspects qualities characteristics and or features that does not indicate that all of the plurality are essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.

An enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. Likewise an enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the enumerated list a computer a laptop a PDA does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.

Headings of sections provided in this patent application and the title of this patent application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

 Determining something can be performed in a variety of manners and therefore the term determining and like terms includes calculating computing deriving looking up e.g. in a table database or data structure ascertaining and the like.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented by e.g. appropriately and or specially programmed general purpose computers and or computing devices. Typically a processor e.g. one or more microprocessors will receive instructions from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media e.g. computer readable media in a number of manners. In some embodiments hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software

A processor generally means any one or more microprocessors CPU devices computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices as further described herein. According to some embodiments a processor may primarily comprise and or be limited to a specific class of processors referred to herein as processing devices . Processing devices are a subset of processors limited to physical devices such as CPU devices Printed Circuit Board PCB devices transistors capacitors logic gates etc. Processing devices for example explicitly exclude biological software only and or biological or software centric physical devices. While processing devices may include some degree of soft logic and or programming for example such devices must include a predominant degree of physical structure in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 101.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions or other information that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during RF and IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The term computer readable memory may generally refer to a subset and or class of computer readable medium that does not include transmission media such as waveforms carrier waves electromagnetic emissions etc. Computer readable memory may typically include physical media upon which data e.g. instructions or other information are stored such as optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory DRAM a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge computer hard drives backup tapes Universal Serial Bus USB memory devices and the like.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data including sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as Bluetooth TDMA CDMA 3G.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by e.g. tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as the described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database.

The present invention can be configured to work in a network environment including a computer that is in communication via a communications network with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet LAN WAN or Ethernet Token Ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Each of the devices may comprise computers such as those based on the Intel Pentium or Centrino processor that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of machines may be in communication with the computer.

The present disclosure provides to one of ordinary skill in the art an enabling description of several embodiments and or inventions. Some of these embodiments and or inventions may not be claimed in the present application but may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present application. Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.

Various embodiments described herein provide advantages in computer processing. The number of online gaming transactions that can effectively be input processed and output in accordance with embodiments herein for example would not be possible without implementation of such embodiments in a specialized computer processing system. Such a system as described herein may for example enable processing of tens hundreds and or thousands of gaming transactions in minutes hours or within a day while such processing would not be possible in the absence of such a system. For convenience such a specially programmed system may be referred to herein as a specialized computer processing system . In other words embodiments conducted by a specialized computer processing system may not be possible to achieve in the absence of such a system and or the speed at which such a system operates would simply not be reproducible by other available means. As a non limiting example a specialized computer processing system herein may be capable of receiving input descriptive of processing and outputting site wide jackpot results to one thousand 1000 players in less than one 1 hour.

