---

title: Semiconductor device design method, system and computer-readable medium
abstract: A semiconductor device design system comprising at least one processor is configured to define a resistance-capacitance (RC) extraction tool for determining a distance between first and second through-semiconductor-vias extracted from a layout of a semiconductor device. The semiconductor device has a semiconductor substrate and the first and second through-semiconductor-vias in the semiconductor substrate. The semiconductor device design system comprising the at least one processor is also configured to extract parasitic parameters of a coupling in the semiconductor substrate based on the distance determined by the RC extraction tool and a model of the coupling included in a simulation tool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904337&OS=08904337&RS=08904337
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd.
number: 08904337
owner_city: 
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140307
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 406 108 filed Feb. 27 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The recent trend in miniaturizing integrated circuits ICs has resulted in smaller devices which consume less power yet provide more functionality at higher speeds than before. The miniaturization process has also resulted in stricter design and manufacturing specifications. Pre manufacture checking and testing are conducted to make sure that a semiconductor device can be made and will function as designed.

It is to be understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of various embodiments. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. An inventive concept may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this description will be thorough and complete and will fully convey an inventive concept to those of ordinary skill in the art. It will be apparent however that one or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

In the drawings the thickness and width of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like reference numerals in the drawings denote like elements. The elements and regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and thus relative sizes or intervals illustrated in the figures are not intended to limit the scope of an inventive concept.

Some embodiments provide a design method and system in which parasitic parameters of a coupling between electrical components in a semiconductor substrate are extracted based on a distance between the electrical components and a model. The distance is provided by a first tool e.g. an RC extraction tool. The model is provided by a second different tool e.g. a simulation tool.

At operation a design of a semiconductor device is generated or provided by a circuit designer. In some embodiments the design is generated or provided in the form of a netlist such as a Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis SPICE netlist. Other data formats for describing the design are usable in further embodiments.

At operation a pre layout simulation is performed on the design to determine whether the design meets a predetermined specification. If the design does not meet the predetermined specification the semiconductor device is redesigned. In some embodiments a SPICE simulation is performed on the SPICE netlist generated or provided at operation . Other simulation tools are usable in place of or in addition to the SPICE simulation in other embodiments.

At operation a layout of the semiconductor device is generated based on the design. In some embodiments the layout is generated in the form of a Graphic Design System GDS file. Other data formats for describing the layout are usable in other embodiments.

At operation a layout versus schematic LVS extraction or check is performed. The LVS check is run to ensure that the generated layout corresponds to the design. Specifically an LVS extraction tool recognizes electrical components as well as connections therebetween from the patterns of the layout. The LVS extraction tool then generates a netlist representing the recognized electrical components and connections. The netlist generated from the layout is compared with the netlist of the design. If the two netlists match the LVS check is passed. Otherwise correction is made to the layout.

In some embodiments a design rule check DRC is also performed to ensure that the layout satisfies certain manufacturing design rules i.e. to ensure that the semiconductor device can be manufactured. If one or more design rules is violated correction is made to the layout. Other verification processes are usable in other embodiments.

At operation a resistance and capacitance RC extraction is performed. The RC extraction is run to determine parasitic parameters e.g. parasitic resistance and parasitic capacitance of interconnects in the semiconductor device s layout for timing simulations in a subsequent operation. Such parasitic parameters are not intended by the circuit designer but nevertheless occur as a result of configurations and or materials of the patterns in the layout. In some embodiments a technology file is used by an RC extraction tool to extract parasitic parameters. The extracted parasitic parameters are added to the netlist provided by the LVS extraction tool to output a modified netlist.

At operation a post layout simulation is performed to determine whether the layout meets a predetermined specification taking the extracted parasitic parameters into account. Specifically a simulation tool performs a simulation on the modified netlist outputted by the RC extraction tool. If the simulation indicates that the layout does not meet the predetermined specification e.g. if the parasitic parameters cause undesirable delays correction is made to the layout. Otherwise the layout is passed to manufacture or additional verification processes. In some embodiments the post layout simulation is a SPICE simulation. Other simulation tools are usable in place of or in addition to SPICE in further embodiments.

The semiconductor substrate includes but is not limited to bulk silicon a semiconductor wafer a silicon on insulator SOI substrate and a silicon germanium substrate. Other semiconductor materials including group III group IV and group V elements are used in some embodiments.

Each of the electrical components includes an active electrical component or a passive electrical component. Examples of active electrical components include but are not limited to transistors e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFET complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS transistors bipolar junction transistors BJT high voltage transistors high frequency transistors p channel and or n channel field effect transistors PFETs NFETs etc. and diodes. Examples of passive electrical components include but are not limited to capacitors inductors fuses resistors and interconnects. Examples of interconnects include but are not limited to vias conductive pads conductive patterns conductive redistribution layers.

In some embodiments the semiconductor device A is an interposer to be interposed between chips ICs stacked one on top another in a three dimensional integrated circuits 3D ICs . The interposer includes one or more active electrical components and or passive electrical components embedded in the semiconductor substrate . In one or more embodiments the interposer includes no active electrical component and is refereed to as a passive interposer. In some embodiments the semiconductor device A is a chip a chip stack which is a stack of chips one on top another or a chip package which includes at least one chip and a carrier on which the at least one chip is mounted.

In the specific configuration in accordance with some embodiments disclosed in the semiconductor device A is an interposer and the electrical components are through semiconductor vias TSVs extending from one side to the opposite side of the semiconductor substrate . The TSVs are arranged to define interconnect structures that interconnect the chips on the opposite sides of the semiconductor device A in a 3D IC structure together.

The TSV includes a conductive via and a liner for electrically insulating the conductive via from the surrounding semiconductor material of the semiconductor substrate . Conductive pads and are coupled to opposite ends of the conductive via to define electrical connections to the corresponding chips in the 3D IC structure. Likewise the TSV includes a conductive via and a liner for electrically insulating the conductive via from the surrounding semiconductor material of the semiconductor substrate . Conductive pads and are coupled to opposite ends of the conductive via to define electrical connections to the corresponding chips in the 3D IC structure.

A coupling exists in the semiconductor substrate between the TSVs . As noted above the recent trend in semiconductor device manufacture and design is to reduce the semiconductor device size while providing more functionality at higher speeds and or frequencies. As the semiconductor device size reduces and or the operating frequency increases coupling noise e.g. caused by the coupling between electrical components such as the TSVs increases due to e.g. a shorter distance d between the TSVs . Such increasing coupling noise is likely to increase signal delays and or cause signal integrity issues. To optimize the design and or the layout of the semiconductor device A to compensate for such potential undesirable effects impact of the coupling on the performance of the semiconductor device A is taken into account. As described with respect to a parasitic parameter representing the coupling is extracted by an RC extraction tool the extracted parasitic parameter is added to a netlist outputted by an LVS extraction tool and a post layout simulation is performed on the modified netlist to predict potentially undesirable effects caused by the coupling . If the RC extraction tool considers the coupling as a parasitic capacitance the semiconductor properties of the semiconductor substrate and or coupling noise at high frequencies are not taken into account which under certain circumstances results in inaccurate simulation evaluations.

Each of the models includes a plurality of intrinsic parameters of the corresponding TSV i.e. one or more intrinsic resistance Ri one or more intrinsic inductance Li and one or more intrinsic capacitance Ci. Specifically a serial connection of two intrinsic inductances Li and two intrinsic resistances Ri positioned between the intrinsic inductances Li represents the conductive via or of the TSV or . An intrinsic capacitance Ci which is connected to a midpoint between the two intrinsic resistances Ri in the serial connection represents the liner or . In one or more embodiments the model or does not include one or more of an intrinsic resistance Ri an intrinsic inductance Li or an intrinsic capacitance Ci. In one or more embodiments different arrangements and or connections among the intrinsic resistance Ri intrinsic inductance Li and or intrinsic capacitance Ci are used. In one or more embodiments the semiconductor device A includes one or more electrical components other than TSVs and suitable models representing such electrical components are used in the model B.

The model includes a plurality of parasitic parameters of the coupling i.e. a parasitic resistance Rp and a parasitic capacitance Cp coupled in parallel with each other. The parallel connection of the parasitic resistance Rp and a parasitic capacitance Cp is serially coupled between the intrinsic capacitances Ci of the models and to reflect the nature of the coupling between the TSVs . The inclusion of both a parasitic resistance Rp and a parasitic capacitance Cp in the model permits the model to represent semiconductor properties of the semiconductor substrate and or coupling noise at high frequencies for accurate simulation results. In one or more embodiments the model further includes a parasitic inductance. In one or more embodiments different arrangements and or connections among the parasitic resistance Rp parasitic capacitance Cp and or parasitic inductance are used.

In some embodiments one or more of the models are included in a simulation tool such as a simulation tool used for a post layout simulation as described with respect to . The simulation tool is arranged to extract using corresponding models intrinsic parameters of various electrical components indicated in the netlist provided by an LVS extraction tool. However the parasitic parameters in the model of the coupling are dependent on a distance between the corresponding electrical components such as the distance d between the TSVs as described with respect to . In situations where the netlist provided by the LVS extraction tool does not indicate the distance between electrical components the simulation tool does not have sufficient information to accurately extract the parasitic parameters of the coupling . On the other hand an RC extraction tool is configured to extract distances between electrical components with higher accuracy than the LVS extraction tool.

Thus some embodiments provide a design method and system which take advantage of both i the capability of a first tool e.g. an RC extraction tool to accurately determine a distance between electrical components in a semiconductor substrate and ii the accuracy of a model included in a second different tool e.g. a simulation tool to represent a coupling in the semiconductor substrate between the electrical components.

In one or more embodiments the design system is implemented by a computer system as described herein below with respect to . A processor of such a computer system is hardwired and or programmed to function as one or more of the tools of the design system .

In one or more embodiments the design system is implemented by several computer systems. A processor of each computer system is hardwired and or programmed to function as one or more of the tools of the design system . For example the LVS extraction tool is implemented by one computer system whereas the simulation tool and RC extraction tool are implemented by another computer system. In one or more embodiments data exchange between the computer systems occurs over a network that connects the computer systems. Other modes of data exchange such as emails external hard drives are usable in further embodiments.

In one or more embodiments a tool of the design system e.g. the simulation tool is implemented by several processors and or computer systems. Other arrangements are usable in further embodiments.

In the design system the layout is inputted into the LVS extraction tool which performs an LVS extraction on the layout and outputs a netlist as described with respect to . The netlist represents electrical components and couplings therebetween as recognized by the LVS extraction tool . The LVS extraction tool further inserts a plurality of pins to represent hierarchical connections between the recognized components and couplings. For example when the layout of a semiconductor device similar to the semiconductor device A is inputted into the LVS extraction tool the LVS extraction tool recognizes two electrical components and and a coupling therebetween. The LVS extraction tool further inserts a pin for the electrical component a pin for the electrical component and pins for the coupling . The pins and indicate a connection between the electrical component and the coupling . The pins and indicate a connection between the electrical component and the coupling . The recognized electrical components and coupling and the corresponding pins are included in the netlist outputted by the LVS extraction tool . However in one or more embodiments a distance between the recognized electrical components is not indicated in the netlist due to e.g. a limitation of the LVS extraction tool in determining distances between electrical components.

The netlist is supplied from the LVS extraction tool to the simulation tool . The simulation tool includes corresponding models for the recognized electrical components and coupling . For example the simulation tool recognizes from the netlist that the electrical components are TSVs provides corresponding TSV models for the electrical components as described with respect to and uses the TSV models to extract intrinsic parameters Ci Ri Li for each of the TSVs. The simulation tool also includes a model for the coupling as described with respect to . However in one or more embodiments the simulation tool does not use the model to extract parasitic parameters of the coupling due to e.g. the netlist lacking accurate data on the distance between the electrical components . Instead the model is provided to the RC extraction tool for parasitic parameter extraction.

The RC extraction tool is arranged to receive the netlist from the LVS extraction tool . In some embodiments the RC extraction tool is further arranged to receive the layout . The RC extraction tool uses the layout and the netlist to extract distances between the electrical components. For example when the layout of a semiconductor device similar to the semiconductor device A and the corresponding netlist are inputted into the RC extraction tool the RC extraction tool extracts the distance d between the electrical components . The RC extraction tool then uses the extracted distance and the model provided by the simulation tool to determine parasitic parameters Cp Rp of the coupling . The extracted or determined parasitic parameters Cp Rp of the coupling are added to the netlist provided by the LVS extraction tool and the modified netlist is used in a subsequent post layout simulation as described with respect to .

In the post layout simulation the design system combines the models with the extracted intrinsic parameters Ci Ri Li and parasitic parameters Cp Rp together into a combined model for the semiconductor device represented by the layout . The pins inserted by the LVS extraction tool are used for the combination. For example the pins associated with the electrical component and coupling are combined together at in the combined model to connect the corresponding models . Similarly the pins associated with the electrical component and coupling are combined together at in the combined model to connect the corresponding models . The combined model and or portions thereof are used in the post layout simulation to check whether the semiconductor device meets a certain specification. In some embodiments the post layout simulation is performed by the simulation tool . Another simulation tool is usable in further embodiments. The simulation tool in one or more embodiments is a SPICE tool.

In some embodiments the model of the coupling is provided from the simulation tool to the RC extraction tool by way of modifying a technology file of the RC extraction tool . A part of the technology file is shown in . The technology file is modified to include additional instructions which reflect the model included in the simulation tool . The model is for example a SPICE model including a parasitic resistance Rp and a parasitic capacitance Cp coupled in parallel as described with respect to . The parasitic capacitance Cp is expressed in accordance with the SPICE model as follows dis 

where tdis is the distance between the electrical components e.g. TSVs and C C C a aare various coefficients that reflect the material of the semiconductor substrate and or the frequency at which the semiconductor device is to be simulated. In accordance with some embodiments different equations are usable for different semiconductor substrate materials. The added instructions introduce the coefficients C C C a ainto the technology file for use by the RC extraction tool in the calculation of the parasitic capacitance Cp. The distance between the electrical components is extracted by the RC extraction tool as described above. The same instructions are usable to calculate parasitic capacitances between different pairs of electrical components depending on the different distances between the electrical components of the pairs of electrical components. Similar changes to the technology file are made to incorporate appropriate coefficients and or equation for calculation of the parasitic resistance Rp in accordance with the model of the simulation tool and the distance between the electrical components is extracted by the RC extraction tool .

In some embodiments the model of the coupling is not necessarily provided from the simulation tool to the RC extraction tool . Instead an Application Programming Interface API is provided between the simulation tool and the RC extraction tool . The distance between electrical components is extracted by the RC extraction tool and sent to the simulation tool via the API. The simulation tool uses the inputted distance and the model included in the simulation tool to calculate the parasitic parameters Rp Cp of the coupling . The calculated parasitic parameters Rp Cp are returned to the RC extraction tool to be added by the RC extraction tool to the netlist which is subsequently supplied to a post layout simulation tool. In one or more embodiments the simulation tool directly uses the extracted parasitic parameters without returning them to the RC extraction tool for a post layout simulation.

In some embodiments the simulation tool does not necessarily use the models of the electrical components included in the simulation tool to extract intrinsic parameters of the electrical components. Instead the simulation tool uses one or more models inputted by a user for the corresponding electrical components.

At operation the RC extraction tool determines a distance between first and second TSVs extracted from a layout of a semiconductor device which includes a semiconductor substrate in which the first and second TSVs are embedded. For example the semiconductor device is an interposer as described with respect to which includes the TSVs embedded in the semiconductor substrate and having therebetween the coupling . A layout of the interposer is supplied to the RC extraction tool which extracts the distance between the TSVs as described with respect to the RC extraction tool in .

At operation parasitic parameters of the coupling in the semiconductor substrate between the TSVs are extracted based on the distance determined by the RC extraction tool and a model of the coupling included in a simulation tool. For example the model included in the simulation tool is used together with the determined distance between the TSVs to extract parasitic parameters of the coupling between the TSVs. The model of the coupling is either included in a technology file of the RC extraction tool or accessed via an API as described with respect to . In some embodiments one or more additional operations such as pre layout simulation post layout simulation LVS extraction DRC verification etc. are performed before and or after and or between operations as described with respect to .

At operation first and second electrical components are extracted from a layout. For example as described with respect to first and second electrical components are extracted from a layout by an LVS extraction tool .

At operation parasitic parameters of a coupling between the first and second electrical components are extracted using a first tool. For example as described with respect to parasitic parameters Rp Cp of a coupling between the first and second electrical components are extracted using an RC extraction tool . The parasitic parameter extraction is performed using a model of the coupling included in a second tool such as a model included in a simulation tool .

At operation intrinsic parameters of the first and second electrical components are extracted using the second tool. For example as described with respect to intrinsic parameters Li Ci Ri of the first and second electrical components are extracted using the simulation tool .

At operation the extracted parasitic parameters and intrinsic parameters are combined into a model of the semiconductor device. For example as described with respect to the extracted parasitic parameters and intrinsic parameters are combined into a model of the semiconductor device. In some embodiments one or more additional operations such as pre layout simulation post layout simulation DRC verification etc. are performed before and or after and or between operations as described with respect to .

In accordance with some embodiments semiconductor device design method and or system is are provided to be quickly adapted to provide an accurate model of the electrical components and couplings therebetween in a semiconductor device having a semiconductor substrate. For this purpose in one or more embodiments the technology file of a first tool e.g. an RC extraction tool is simply modified to include instructions and or coefficients that reflect a model included in a second different tool e.g. a simulation tool. When a different model is to be used and or the semiconductor device is to be simulated at a different frequency it is sufficient to update the corresponding instructions and or coefficients in the technology file. Alternatively in one or more embodiments a distance between the electrical components is extracted by the first tool and inputted e.g. via an API into the second tool for parasitic parameter extraction. Thus minimal changes i.e. a modified technology file or an additional API are made yet accurate modeling is achievable.

The model of the semiconductor device with the extracted parasitic parameters accurately reflects both the semiconductor properties of the semiconductor substrate and various effects related to the operating frequency of the semiconductor device especially in broadband GHz applications. Some embodiments are particularly useful for highly accurate RC extraction of TSVs and TSV to TSV couplings at different frequencies and or for various semiconductor materials of the semiconductor substrate including high R substrates Epi substrates or doped substrates. Some embodiments are useful for RC extraction of not only TSVs but also other electrical components embedded in a semiconductor substrate. Consistent parasitic parameter extraction is ensured for both GDS and Automatic Plate and Route APR design flows.

The memory comprises in some embodiments a random access memory RAM and or other dynamic storage device and or read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing data and or instructions to be executed by the processor e.g. kernel userspace portions of the kernel and or the userspace and components thereof. The memory is also used in some embodiments for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor .

In some embodiments a storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is coupled to the bus for storing data and or instructions e.g. kernel userspace etc. The I O device comprises an input device an output device and or a combined input output device for enabling user interaction with the system . An input device comprises for example a keyboard keypad mouse trackball trackpad and or cursor direction keys for communicating information and commands to the processor . An output device comprises for example a display a printer a voice synthesizer etc. for communicating information to a user.

In some embodiments one or more operations and or functionality of the tools and or systems described with respect to are realized by the processor which is programmed for performing such operations and or functionality. One or more of the memory the I F the storage the I O device the hardware components and the bus is are operable to receive instructions data design rules netlists layouts models and or other parameters for processing by the processor .

In some embodiments one or more of the operations and or functionality of the tools and or systems described with respect to is are implemented by specifically configured hardware e.g. by one or more application specific integrated circuits or ASIC s which is are included separate from or in lieu of the processor . Some embodiments incorporate more than one of the described operations and or functionality in a single ASIC.

In some embodiments the operations and or functionality are realized as functions of a program stored in a non transitory computer readable recording medium. Examples of a non transitory computer readable recording medium include but are not limited to external removable and or internal built in storage or memory unit e.g. one or more of an optical disk such as a DVD a magnetic disk such as a hard disk a semiconductor memory such as a ROM a RAM a memory card or other suitable non transitory computer readable recording medium.

The above methods include exemplary operations but they are not necessarily required to be performed in the order shown. Operations may be added replaced changed order and or eliminated as appropriate in accordance with the spirit and scope of embodiments of the disclosure. Embodiments that combine different features and or different embodiments are within scope of the disclosure and will be apparent to those skilled in the art after reviewing this disclosure.

One aspect of this description relates to a semiconductor device design system comprising at least one processor configured to define a resistance capacitance RC extraction tool for determining a distance between first and second through semiconductor vias extracted from a layout of a semiconductor device the semiconductor device having a semiconductor substrate and the first and second through semiconductor vias in the semiconductor substrate. The semiconductor device design system is also configured to extract parasitic parameters of a coupling in the semiconductor substrate based on the distance determined by the RC extraction tool and a model of the coupling included in a simulation tool.

Another aspect of this description relates to a method comprising defining by a processor a resistance capacitance RC extraction tool for determining a distance between first and second through semiconductor vias extracted from a layout of a semiconductor device said semiconductor device having a semiconductor substrate and the first and second through semiconductor vias in the semiconductor substrate. The method also comprises extracting parasitic parameters a coupling in the semiconductor substrate based on the distance determined by the RC extraction tool and a model of the coupling included in a simulation tool.

A further aspect of this description relates to a non transitory computer readable medium containing therein instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to define a resistance capacitance RC extraction tool for determining a distance between first and second through semiconductor vias extracted from a layout of a semiconductor device said semiconductor device having a semiconductor substrate and the first and second through semiconductor vias in the semiconductor substrate. The computer is also caused to extract parasitic parameters of a coupling in the semiconductor substrate based on the distance determined by the RC extraction tool and a model of the coupling included in a simulation tool.

It will be readily seen by one of ordinary skill in the art that one or more of the disclosed embodiments fulfill one or more of the advantages set forth above. After reading the foregoing specification one of ordinary skill will be able to affect various changes substitutions of equivalents and various other embodiments as broadly disclosed herein. It is therefore intended that the protection granted hereon be limited only by the definition contained in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

