---

title: High power insulated gate bipolar transistors
abstract: A method of forming a transistor device include forming a drift layer of a first conductivity type, forming a well of a second conductivity type in the drift layer, forming a JFET region with first conductivity type dopant ions in the drift layer, forming a channel adjustment layer of the first conductivity type on the JFET region and the well, implanting first conductivity type dopant ions to form an emitter region of the first conductivity type extending through the channel adjustment layer and into the well, wherein the emitter region is spaced apart from the JFET region by the well, implanting second conductivity type dopant ions to form a connector region of the second conductivity type adjacent the emitter region, forming a gate oxide layer on the channel region, and forming a gate on the gate oxide layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09548374&OS=09548374&RS=09548374
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09548374
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140424
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 764 492 filed Jun. 18 2007 entitled High Power Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 838 249 filed Aug. 17 2006 entitled High Power Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00014 05 C 0202 awarded by ONR DARPA. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electronic devices. More particularly the present invention relates to high power insulated gate bipolar transistors.

Power devices made with silicon carbide SiC are expected to show great advantages as compared to those on silicon for high speed high power and or high temperature applications due to the high critical field and wide band gap of SiC. For devices capable of blocking high voltages such as voltages in excess of about 5 kV it may be desirable to have bipolar operation to reduce the drift layer resistance via conductivity modulation resulting from injected minority carriers. However one technical challenge for bipolar devices in silicon carbide is forward voltage degradation over time possibly due to the presence of Basal Plane Dislocations BPD in single crystals of silicon carbide. Thus unipolar devices such as SiC Schottky diodes and MOSFETs are typically used for high power applications.

SiC DMOSFET devices with a 10 kV blocking capability have been fabricated with a specific on resistance of about 100 m cm. DMOSFET devices may exhibit very fast switching speed of for example less than 100 ns due to their majority carrier nature. However as the desired blocking voltage of devices increases for example up to 15 kV or more the on resistance of a MOSFET device may increase substantially due to the corresponding increase in the drift layer thickness. This problem may be exacerbated at high temperatures due to bulk mobility reduction which may result in excessive power dissipation.

With the progress of SiC crystal material growth several approaches have been developed to mitigate BPD related problems. See e.g. B. Hull M. Das J. Sumakeris J. Richmond and S. Krishinaswami Drift Free 10 kV 20 A 4 H SiC PiN Diodes Journal of Electrical Materials Vol. 34 No. 4 2005. These developments may enhance the development and or potential applications of SiC bipolar devices such as thyristors GTOs etc. Even though thyristors and or GTOs may offer low forward voltage drops they may require bulky commutating circuits for the gate drive and protections. Accordingly it may be desirable for a SiC bipolar device to have gate turn off capability. Due to their superior on state characteristics reasonable switching speed and or excellent safe operation area SOA 4 H SiC insulated gate bipolar transistors IGBTs are becoming more suitable for power switching applications.

A silicon carbide based insulated gate bipolar transistor IGBT according to some embodiments includes a silicon carbide substrate having a first conductivity type a silicon carbide drift layer having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and a well region in the drift layer and having the first conductivity type. A silicon carbide epitaxial channel adjustment layer is on the drift layer and has the second conductivity type. An emitter region extends from a surface of the epitaxial channel adjustment layer through the epitaxial channel adjustment layer and into the well region. The emitter region has the second conductivity type and at least partially defines a channel region in the well region adjacent to the emitter region. A gate oxide layer is on the channel region and a gate is on the gate oxide layer.

The silicon carbide drift layer may include a JFET region adjacent to the well region. The emitter region may be spaced apart from the JFET region and may define the channel region between the emitter region and the JFET region.

In some embodiments the first conductivity type may be n type and the second conductivity type may be p type.

The transistor may further include a connector region of the first conductivity type extending from a surface of the channel adjustment layer into the well region a first ohmic contact on the connector region a second ohmic contact on the emitter region and including a material different from the first ohmic contact and a metal overlayer electrically connecting the first ohmic contact and the second ohmic contact.

The first ohmic contact may include a nickel based conductive material and the second ohmic contact may include an aluminum based conductive material.

The channel adjustment layer may have a thickness of about 0.25 m or more. Furthermore the distance from a bottom of the emitter region to a bottom of the well region is about 0.45 m or more.

The channel adjustment layer may have a thickness of about 0.1 m to about 0.5 m and a net doping concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cm.

Some embodiments of the invention provide methods of forming an insulated gate bipolar transistor IGBT device in silicon carbide. The methods include forming a p type silicon carbide drift layer on an n type silicon carbide substrate forming an n type well in the p type silicon carbide drift layer and epitaxially growing a p type channel adjustment layer on the p type silicon carbide drift layer and on the n type well. P type dopant ions may be implanted to form a p type emitter region extending through the channel layer and into the n type well at a surface of the silicon carbide layer. The p type emitter region at least partially defines a channel region in the n type well adjacent the p type emitter region. The methods further include implanting n type dopant ions to form an n type connector region extending through the channel layer and into the n type well at a surface of the silicon carbide layer. The implanted ions are annealed. A gate oxide layer is formed on the channel region and a gate is formed on the gate oxide layer.

The methods may further include forming a graphite coating for implant activation and removing the graphite coating after annealing the implanted ions. Annealing the implanted ions may include annealing the silicon carbide layer and the graphite coating. The methods may further include crystallizing the graphite coating before annealing the implanted ions.

Annealing the implanted ions may include annealing the implanted ions at a temperature greater than 1700 C. and in some embodiments greater than 1800 C. Forming the gate oxide layer may include forming the gate oxide layer in dry O the method may further include annealing the gate oxide layer in wet O. In particular forming the gate oxide layer may include forming the gate oxide layer in dry Oat a temperature less than or equal to about 1200 C.

The methods may further include annealing the gate oxide layer in an inert atmosphere at a temperature less than or equal to about 1200 C. after forming the gate oxide layer and before annealing the gate oxide layer in wet O.

Annealing the gate oxide layer in wet Omay include annealing the gate oxide layer in wet Oat a temperature less than or equal to about 950 C. for at least one hour.

Annealing the oxide layer in wet Omay include generating pyrogenic steam in a pyrogenic chamber supplying the pyrogenic steam to an anneal chamber and annealing the oxide layer in the anneal chamber. Generating pyrogenic steam may include heating the pyrogenic chamber supplying hydrogen and oxygen gas to the pyrogenic chamber and combusting the hydrogen gas and the oxygen gas to form the pyrogenic steam the hydrogen gas and the oxygen gas are supplied to the pyrogenic chamber at a molecular ratio of hydrogen to oxygen of about 1.8 or more.

The methods may further include implanting p type dopant ions into the drift layer to form a JFET region adjacent to the n type well. The p type emitter region may be spaced apart from the JFET region and may define a channel region between the p type emitter region and the JFET region.

The channel adjustment layer may have a thickness of about 0.1 m to about 0.5 m and a net acceptor concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cm.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or horizontal or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region.

Some embodiments of the invention provide insulated gate bipolar transistors IGBTs that are suitable for high power and or high temperature applications. Some embodiments of the invention provide high voltage planar IGBTs. Although embodiments of the invention described herein include silicon carbide substrates and epitaxial layers the principles and structures described herein may be advantageously employed in devices formed using other materials such as silicon germanium gallium arsenide and gallium nitride and alloys thereof.

The first reported planar gate 5.8 kV IGBT in SiC was built on an n type substrate in 2005. See Q. Zhang C. Jonas S. Ryu A. Agarwal and J. Palmour Design and Fabrications of High Voltage IGBTs on 4 H SiC ISPSD Proceeding 2006. The p channel IGBT was selected due to the lack of high quality low resistivity p SiC substrates which are required for n channel IGBTs. The device exhibits a differential on resistance Rdiff on of about 570 m cmat a gate bias of 30 V at 25 C. and decreases to about 118 m cmat 200 C. respectively. The high on resistance was primarily attributed to the low bulk carrier lifetimes and low hole channel mobility.

An IGBT structure according to some embodiments of the invention is shown in . A planar device structure such as the structure of the device shown in may provide process simplification and or enhanced device reliability. However other device structures may be advantageously employed.

The device of includes a p type buffer layer and a p drift epitaxial layer on an n type substrate . The substrate may include an n type 8 off axis 4 H SiC substrate. The p drift layer may have a thickness of about 110 m and may be doped with p type dopants at a doping concentration selected to provide a desired blocking voltage. For example the p drift layer may be doped with p type dopants at a doping concentration of about 2 10cmto about 6 10cmfor a 10 kV blocking capability. The p type buffer layer may have a thickness of about 1 m to about 2 m and may be doped with p type dopants at a doping concentration of about 1 10cm. The p type buffer layer is provided as a channel stop layer to discourage punch through.

N well regions are formed at a surface of the p type drift layer . The n well regions which may be formed by ion implantation may extend a distance of about 0.5 m into the drift layer .

An epitaxial p type channel adjustment layer is on the drift layer . The channel adjustment layer may have a thickness of about 0.1 m to about 0.5 m and may be doped with p type dopants to have a net acceptor concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cm. In particular the epitaxial p type channel adjustment layer may have a thickness of about 0.25 m and may be doped with acceptor ions such as aluminum ions at a doping concentration of about 1 10 cm. The presence of the p type channel adjustment layer may modify the threshold voltage and or improve the inversion channel mobility of the device .

The device further includes n connector regions and p emitter regions that may be formed by selective implantation of for example nitrogen and aluminum respectively. The n connector regions and p emitter regions extend through the p type channel adjustment layer and into the n well regions . In some embodiments a distance d between the bottom of the p emitter regions and the bottom of the n well regions may be about 0.45 m or more. An increased distance d may provide a lower resistance of the n well regions which may result in improved on state resistance of the device .

A guard ring based edge termination not shown may be provided around the device periphery. Other types of edge terminations may be used.

The device includes a JFET region in the drift layer between adjacent n well regions . The JFET region may be implanted with p type dopants to reduce the JFET resistance from the adjacent n well regions . In some embodiments the JFET region may be formed by an epitaxial growth process.

The device further includes a gate insulation layer which may include silicon dioxide having a thickness of about 400 1000 .

A gate of for example polysilicon is formed on the gate insulation layer . An interlayer dielectric layer is on the surface of the device and electrically insulates the gate .

N type ohmic contacts are formed to the n connector regions and p type ohmic contacts are formed to the p emitter regions . The n type ohmic contacts may include a nickel based conductive layer such as Ni and or NiSi. The p type ohmic contact may include an aluminum based conductive layer such as Al and or AlSi. A metal overlayer is formed on the interlayer dielectric layer and electrically connects the n type connector regions and the p type emitter regions through their respective ohmic contacts . An n type ohmic metal collector contact is formed on the substrate .

The structure may then be annealed at a temperature of about 1600 C. or more to activate the implanted ions. In particular the structure may be annealed under standard SiC activation annealing conditions that are known in the art to activate the n type dopants.

The JFET region may be formed for example by implantation of aluminum in the drift layer between adjacent n well regions . The JFET region may be implanted with p type dopants to reduce the JFET resistance from the adjacent n well regions . In particular the JFET implantation dose may be selected to reduce the JFET resistance while keeping implant damage at an acceptable level. In some embodiments the JFET implantation may be performed at a dose sufficient to provide a dopant concentration of about 1 10cmin the JFET region . The JFET region may in some embodiments be formed by an epitaxial growth process.

Referring to an epitaxial channel adjustment layer is formed on the drift layer for example using well known SiC epitaxial regrowth techniques. The channel adjustment layer may be doped with acceptor ions at a doping concentration of about 1 10cm.

The epitaxial channel adjustment layer may modify the threshold voltage and or improve the inversion channel mobility of the device. Furthermore the channel adjustment layer may also permit formation of shallower p type source regions relative to the n type well regions . Providing deeper n type well regions by lifting the p type emitter implants to the surface of the regrown channel adjustment layer may reduce or prevent latch up in the device. The deep n well may result in a lower N well resistance due to the increased spacing d between the bottom of the p type emitter region and the bottom of the n well . A lower n well resistance may increase the device latch up current and or provide a better on state resistance.

Referring to the n type connector regions and p type emitter regions are formed for example by selective implantation of donor and acceptor ions respectively into through the epitaxial channel adjustment layer .

It will be appreciated that the distance d shown in is a function of the vertical extent of the n type well regions and the vertical extent of the p type emitter regions . In general it may be desirable to make the spacing d between the bottom of the p type emitter regions and the bottom of the n well regions as large as possible. Furthermore as described above the p type emitter regions may be formed after formation of the p type epitaxial channel adjustment layer . Thus the thickness depth of the well regions is determined by the maximum implant energy of the system used to manufacture the device. However the penetration depth of the p emitter regions into the n type well regions may be decreased by the thickness of the epitaxial channel adjustment layer which may be about 0.25 .

Still referring to the implanted dopants may be activated by annealing the structure at a temperature of about 1600 C. or more with a silicon over pressure and or covered by an encapsulation layer such as a graphite film. In some embodiments the implants may be activated by annealing at a temperature greater than about 1700 C. using a graphite encapsulation layer.

A high temperature activation anneal e.g. 1700 C. or more may enhance the activation of the threshold adjustment ions as well as annealing of defects in the channel region . However such a high temperature anneal may damage the surface of the silicon carbide drift layer .

Referring to in order to reduce damage that may result from a high temperature anneal a graphite coating may be formed on the surface of the structure C prior to formation of the gate oxide gate contact and emitter contact . That is prior to annealing the structure C to activate the implanted ions a graphite coating may be applied to the top front side of the structure C in order to protect the surface of the structure during the anneal. The graphite coating may be applied by a conventional resist coating method and may have a thickness that is sufficient to protect the underlying SiC layers during a high temperature anneal. For example the graphite coating may have a thickness of about 1 m. The graphite coating may be heated to form a crystalline coating on the channel adjustment layer . The implanted ions may be activated by a thermal anneal that may be performed for example in an inert gas at a temperature of about 1700 C. or greater. In particular the thermal anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 1850 C. in argon for 5 minutes. The graphite coating may help to protect the surface of the epitaxial channel adjustment layer and or the drift layer during the high temperature anneal.

After implant annealing a field oxide not shown of for example silicon dioxide having a thickness of about 1 m may be deposited and patterned to expose the active region of the device.

Referring to the gate insulation layer may be formed by a gate oxidation process with a final gate oxide thickness of 400 600 .

The gate insulation layer may be grown on the exposed surface of the drift layer after removal of the graphite cap layer . The gate insulation layer may include an oxide layer grown by a dry wet oxidation process that includes a growth of bulk oxide in dry Ofollowed by an anneal of the bulk oxide in wet Oas described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 972 801 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As used herein anneal of oxide in wet Orefers to anneal of an oxide in an ambient containing both Oand vaporized HO. An anneal may be performed in between the dry oxide growth and the wet oxide growth. The dry Ooxide growth may be performed for example in a quartz furnace tube at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in dry Ofor a time of at least about 2.5 hours. Dry oxide growth is performed to grow the bulk oxide layer to a desired thickness. The temperature of the dry oxide growth may affect the oxide growth rate. For example higher process temperatures may produce higher oxide growth rates. The maximum growth temperature may be dependent on the system used. Higher temperatures may be achieved for the dry Ogrowth by using for example a silicon carbide furnace instead of a quartz tube. However higher temperatures may not improve the quality of the oxide.

In some embodiments the dry Ooxide growth may be performed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in dry Ofor about 3.5 hours. The resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in an inert atmosphere. In particular the resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in Ar for about 1 hour.

The wet Ooxide anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 950 C. or less for a time of at least about 1 hour. The temperature of the wet Oanneal may be limited to discourage further thermal oxide growth at the SiC SiOinterface which may introduce additional interface states. In particular the wet Oanneal may be performed in wet Oat a temperature of about 950 C. for about 3 hours The resulting gate insulation layer may have a thickness of about 500 .

In some embodiments the steam used in the wet Oanneal process may be generated using a pyrogenic process and the resulting wet Oanneal may be referred to as a pyrogenic oxidation. Referring to in a pyrogenic oxidation oxygen O gas and hydrogen H gas are flowed into a pyrogenic chamber which is separate from the anneal chamber and which is heated to a high temperature such as about 800 C. The hydrogen and oxygen gas combust in the pyrogenic chamber and form a mixture of steam HO and oxygen O which is supplied to the anneal chamber .

In some cases it may be desirable to adjust the flow rates of hydrogen and oxygen into the pyrogenic chamber so that a molecular ratio of hydrogen to oxygen approaches but does not exceed a 2 1 ratio. That is it may be desirable for the mixture supplied to the anneal chamber to be as wet as possible within reasonable safety limits. In some cases a hydrogen oxygen ratio of 1.8 1 or 1.9 1 may be used.

Referring again to after formation of the gate insulation layer a polysilicon gate may be deposited and doped for example with boron followed by a metallization process to reduce the gate resistance. An interlayer dielectric layer for example of silicon dioxide is formed on the structure D and covers the gate and exposed portions of the structure D. Via holes are opened in the interlayer dielectric layer and ohmic contacts are formed to the p type emitter regions and the n type connector regions . An Al based conductive material such as Al and or AlSi may be deposited as the p type ohmic metal emitter contacts and a Ni based conductive layer such as Ni and or Ni Si may be deposited as the n type ohmic metal contacts . All contacts may be sintered in Rapid Thermal Annealer. As shown in a metal overlayer such as a thick Ti Au layer may be deposited on the interlayer dielectric layer to electrically connect the p type emitter regions and the n type connector regions . An n type collector contact is formed as a backside contact on the device .

A planar IGBT as described above and having an active area of 0.4 mmwas fabricated and characterized for on state and blocking characteristics with negative potentials on the gate and collector. The on state characteristics at room temperature of a 0.4 mmIGBT are shown in with a maximum gate bias of about 20 V. The knee voltage is about 3 V which indicates good ohmic contacts on the emitter and collector. The differential on resistance is 88 m cmwhich is the lowest value for high voltage IGBTs. Setting the power dissipation for such devices at 300 W cm the collector current density is approximately 50 A cm. At this current density level the collector voltage drop is about 8.65 V which corresponds to a specific on resistance of about 173 m cm.

In the on state an IGBT according to embodiments of the invention may exhibit a positive temperature coefficient. shows the I V characteristics at 200 C. for the same device. The knee voltage stays relatively constant at 3 V. The differential on resistance further reduces to about 25 m cmat a gate bias of 20 V. At the collector current density of 50 A cm the collector voltage drop reduces to about 5.30 V which corresponds to a specific on resistance of about 106 m cm. The on resistance reduction at high temperature may indicate that carrier lifetimes in SiC materials currently used are the dominant factor relating to IGBT on state current conduction capability. Compared to a 10 kV class SiC DMOSFET an IGBT according to some embodiments of the invention still exhibits a higher voltage drop at room temperature possibly due to insufficient resistivity modulation. However the voltage drop becomes less than the value for the DMOSFET at high temperatures.

Hole mobility and MOS threshold voltage measurements for a lateral 4 H SiC p MOSFET fabricated in conjunction with the IGBT show that the MOSFET device has a peak channel mobility of about 6.5 cm V s and a threshold voltage of about 7.5 V at room temperature. The channel mobility reaches a maximum value of about 8.2 cm V s at 100 C. while the threshold voltage decreases with temperature.

Switching tests were performed on IGBT devices according to embodiments of the invention. A clamped Inductive Switching Test Circuit topology as shown in was used for the switching tests. The IGBT device tested in the switching tests had an active area of 4 mmto achieve a high conduction current but otherwise the test device had a similar design as that described above. In this test circuit the IGBT is coupled to a 1.1 mH inductive load L that is clamped by a freewheeling diode D. The diode D includes two CREE CSD10120 SiC Schottky diodes in series with zero reverse recovery. One CSD10120 diode is rated for 1200 V and 10 A so two in series may provide 2400 V of blocking capability. The capacitor C has a capacitance of 2 F and is capable of handling voltages up to 4 kV. A negative pulse from 0 to 20 V from the voltage source Vin was used to turn on the IGBT. The supply voltage Vss is 500 V.

Table 1 shows the switching times for varying temperatures. The total switching time is about 350 ns at room temperature and increases to about 460 ns at 200 C. The IGBT features a fast switching capability which can be operated at high frequency for a wide temperature range. The turn off delay time may be the dominant portion of the total switching time which is primarily determined by the input capacitors.

SiC IGBTs according to some embodiments of the invention may be suitable for high power and or high temperature applications. Some embodiments of the invention provide high voltage planar IGBTs on n type 4 H SiC substrates. In some embodiments a differential on resistance of about 88 m cmat a gate bias of about 20 V is achieved at 25 C. and decreases to about 24.8 m cmat 200 C. A device according to embodiments of the invention may exhibit a blocking voltage of about 9 kV with a leakage current density of about 0.1 mA cmor less. A hole channel mobility of about 6.5 cm V s is achieved at room temperature with a threshold voltage of 6.5 V resulting in enhanced conduction capability. Inductive switching tests show that IGBTs according to some embodiments of the invention may exhibit fast switching capability at both room temperature and at elevated temperatures.

IGBT devices according to some embodiments of the invention may exhibit a low on state resistance. In particular a high channel mobility may be achieved by using one or more of buried channel implantation regrowth thermal oxidation high temperature implant activation and or graphite encapsulation during implant activation. Some embodiments of the invention may provide an optimized cell design with a better trade off between high channel density and low JFET resistance. Furthermore some embodiments of the invention may provide a field stopper layer that is configured to enhance the carrier injection efficiency while maintaining a desired blocking capability. High channel mobility may be obtained through epitaxial channel regrowth and or activation of threshold adjustment buried channel implants using a high temperature anneal and or graphite encapsulation. High majority carrier injection from the P type emitter may be obtained through P type epitaxial growth to obtain a high hole carrier concentration. Furthermore some embodiments of the invention may provide reduced ohmic contact resistance on n and p type materials.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

