---

title: Methods of depositing an alpha-silicon-carbide-containing film at low temperature
abstract: Described methods are useful for depositing a silicon carbide film including Alpha-SiC at low temperatures (e.g., below about 1400° C.), and resulting multi-layer structures and devices. A method includes introducing a chlorinated hydrocarbon gas and a chlorosilicon gas into a reaction chamber, and reacting the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas with the chlorosilicon gas at a temperature of less than about 1400° C. to grow the silicon carbide film. The silicon carbide film so-formed includes Alpha-SiC.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09546420&OS=09546420&RS=09546420
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09546420
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140805
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 13 646 801 filed Oct. 8 2012 and now abandoned which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed generally to methods of forming alpha silicon carbide Alpha SiC and more particularly to methods of depositing Alpha SiC at a low temperature.

Silicon carbide thin films are promising for use in a variety of different electronic mechanical chemical and acoustic applications. Silicon carbide exists in hexagonal rhombohedral and cubic crystal structures. Generally numerous polytypes of the hexagonal and rhombohedral forms are collectively referred to as Alpha SiC while the cubic zinc blende form of silicon carbide is referred to as Beta SiC. 

Silicon carbide is considered a superior material for high power high temperature and high frequency electronic devices due to its relatively large energy bandgap high melting point high saturated electron drift velocity high breakdown field high thermal conductivity and high chemical resistance. Silicon carbide s relatively large energy bandgap also makes this material an excellent choice for fabrication of blue light emitting diodes and electronic devices for use in radiation intensive environments.

Silicon carbide is also a promising candidate for other applications due to its superior chemical and mechanical properties. For example silicon carbide s strong chemical resistance make it well suited for exposure to harsh chemical environments such as in chemical sensing applications. As another example silicon carbide s relatively high acoustic velocity and low material damping also make it promising for acoustic resonator applications.

Despite silicon carbide s exceptional chemical electronic mechanical and acoustic properties successful fabrication of silicon carbide thin films continues to pose a challenge. Therefore there is still a need for improved fabrication techniques for manufacturing silicon carbide thin films so that its exceptional electronic mechanical chemical and acoustic characteristics can be exploited.

Embodiments of the invention relate to methods of depositing a silicon carbide thin film including Alpha SiC at low temperatures e.g. below about 1400 C. and resulting multi layer structures and devices incorporating such multi layer structures. In an embodiment a method of depositing a silicon carbide film includes introducing a chlorinated hydrocarbon gas and a chlorosilicon gas into a reaction chamber and reacting the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas with the chlorosilicon gas at a temperature of less than about 1400 C. to grow the silicon carbide film. The silicon carbide film so grown includes Alpha SiC.

In an embodiment a multi layer structure includes a silicon based substrate and a silicon carbide film grown on the silicon based substrate. The silicon carbide film includes Alpha SiC.

In an embodiment the multi layer structure may be integrated in at least one of a semiconductor device a sensor or a microelectromechanical system MEMS device.

Features from any of the disclosed embodiments may be used in combination with one another without limitation. In addition other features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art through consideration of the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the invention relate to methods of depositing a silicon carbide thin film including Alpha SiC at low temperatures e.g. below about 1400 C. and resulting multi layer structures and devices incorporating such multi layer structures. Alpha SiC containing thin films that exhibit a wide electronic bandgap are known to assume numerous polytypes. The most technologically important of these polytypes is the hexagonal 6H close packed Alpha SiC polytypes with a bandgap of about 2.9 eV to about 3.3 eV. Other polytypes of Alpha SiC include 2H SiC and 4H SiC. In addition to having a wide electronic bandgap Alpha SiC also exhibits a relatively high melting point Young s modulus thermal conductivity electron saturation velocity breakdown field and chemical stability. These attributes combine to make Alpha SiC a promising candidate for high power high temperature and harsh environment electronic and electro mechanical applications. However these same attributes can render the Alpha SiC difficult to fabricate at temperatures below 1400 C. Furthermore the temperature range for conventional processing of Alpha SiC exceeds the melting point of elemental silicon thereby excluding widely available silicon wafers from consideration as a substrate.

Although thin films of Alpha SiC have been a challenge to produce at temperatures lower than 1400 C. thin films of 3C Beta SiC exhibiting cubic symmetry have been produced at much lower temperatures such as about 900 C. However due to the smaller bandgap and transport properties the 3C Beta SiC material is not generally desired for many applications. The distinction in the performance of the 3C Beta SiC thin films in comparison to the Alpha SiC containing thin films lies in the properties conferred to the thin films at least partially due to their respective crystal structures.

Generally thin film fabrication may proceed by deposition of material upon another surface of the same or another material. Such growth is usually accomplished by techniques such as chemical vapor deposition CVD . CVD proceeds as a careful building up of a thin film of new single crystal polycrystalline or amorphous material upon the existing material. According to various embodiments disclosed herein thin film fabrication may proceed via low pressure CVD LPCVD by introducing a chlorinated hydrocarbon gas and a chlorosilicon gas into a reaction chamber and reacting the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas with the chlorosilicon gas at a temperature of less than about 1400 C. e.g. less than about 1000 C. to grow a silicon carbide thin film comprising Alpha SiC on a substrate.

The chlorosilicon and chlorinated hydrocarbon gases may be chosen from a variety of different suitable gases. In an embodiment the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas may include trans 1 2 dichloroethylene DCE CHCl also known as dichloroethene and or other DCE isomer e.g. cis 1 2 DCE or 1 1 DCE trichloroethylene CHCl also known as trichloroethene trichloroethane CHCl or combinations of any of the foregoing chlorinated hydrocarbon gases. In an embodiment the chlorosilicon gas may include dichlorosilane DCS SiHCl silicon tetrachloride SiCl hexachlorodisilane SiCl trichlorosilane HClSi or combinations of any of the foregoing chlorosilicon gases. Any combination of the chlorosilicon chlorinated hydrocarbon gases disclosed herein may be used.

Generally during the CVD process the substrate e.g. a silicon based substrate is exposed to the chlorosilicon gas and the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas which react and or decompose with each other on a surface of the substrate to produce the thin film see resulting in volatile by products. In an embodiment these volatile by products may be removed by gas flow through a gas removal valve of the reaction chamber as shown in .

The CVD process for growing the thin film including Alpha SiC may be performed at a range of pressures for the reaction chamber . For example the pressure may be about 25 mTorr to about 300 mTorr about 100 mTorr to about 300 mTorr about 50 mTorr to about 200 mTorr about 100 mTorr to about 200 mTorr or about 50 mTorr to about 100 MTorr. In some embodiments LPCVD may be employed which is similar to CVD but is carried out at sub atmospheric pressures. The reduced pressure of LPCVD may reduce undesirable gas phase reactions and may improve film uniformity across the substrate .

The CVD process for growing the thin film including Alpha SiC may be performed with the substrate maintained at a range of temperatures. For example the temperature may be less than about 1400 C. less than about 1000 C. greater than about 0 C. to less than about 1000 C. about 500 C. to about 1400 C. about 750 C. to about 1000 C. about 800 C. to about 1400 C. about 800 C. to about 1000 C. about 850 C. to about 975 C. or about 900 C. to about 1000 C. In a more specific embodiment the LPCVD process for depositing the thin film may be carried out in the reaction chamber with the substrate at a temperature of about 950 C. and the reaction chamber at a pressure of about 75 mTorr.

In an embodiment when the substrate is a silicon based substrate such as a silicon wafer the reaction of the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas with the chlorosilicon gas at a temperature of less than about 1000 C. or less than about 1400 C. to grow the thin film is performed at an HCl pressure sufficient to etch a silicon based substrate on which the silicon carbide film is directly grown without an intervening Alpha SiC buffer layer. The inventor currently believes that promoting carbon saturation conditions in the growth zone during the CVD process preferentially induces the formation of the alpha silicon carbide on the silicon based substrate instead of beta silicon carbide. These carbon saturation conditions are achieved in part through HCl selectively etching silicon in the growth zone.

Referring to the Alpha SiC containing thin films may be used to fabricate a multi layer structure including the substrate e.g. a silicon based substrate and the thin film grown on the substrate that comprises alpha silicon carbide. In an embodiment the substrate may be a silicon based substrate such as a single crystal silicon wafer e.g. p or n type or a silicon on insulator wafer. For example the silicon based substrate used to prepare the Alpha SiC containing thin films may include at least one of single crystal silicon amorphous silicon a layered silicon based wafer such as a silicon on insulator substrate silicon carbide alpha silicon carbide or beta silicon carbide. In other embodiments aluminum oxide e.g. sapphire may be used as the substrate . In an embodiment when the silicon based substrate is a silicon wafer a buffer layer of Alpha SiC may be provided thereon on which the thin film is grown.

In an embodiment the thin film may be grown homoepitaxially. Such a method provides for deposition of the thin film on the substrate comprising substantially the same composition and crystal structure such as an Alpha SiC substrate or an Alpha SiC buffer layer formed on any suitable substrate. For example the thin film as shown in may be a single crystal or polycrystalline thin film of Alpha SiC grown substantially homoepitaxially via LPCVD on the substrate at temperatures below 1000 C. with the substrate also comprising Alpha SiC.

In another embodiment the thin film may be grown heteroepitaxially. Such a method provides for deposition of the thin film on the substrate comprising substantially a different composition and crystal structure. For example the thin film may be a polycrystalline Alpha SiC thin film exhibiting highly textured stress controlled smooth characteristics grown heteroepitaxially via LPCVD on the substrate at temperatures below 1000 C. with the substrate comprising any material disclosed herein for use as a substrate such as a substrate other than an Alpha SiC substrate.

X ray diffraction XRD may be used to identify Alpha SiC polytypes e.g. 2H SiC 6H SiC and 4H SiC present within the thin film . Integrated intensities of XRD peaks produced in the XRD may be used to provide a polytype ratio parameter V. Overlapping XRD peaks make identification of a single XRD peak attributable to substantially a single polytype such as 6H SiC challenging. For example the 6H 006 peak overlaps the 3C 111 peak 6H 104 overlaps 3C 200 and 6H 103 overlaps 4H 102 . For single crystal or highly textured specimens it is therefore not possible to uniquely determine the SiC polytype from the peak position alone. However one can consider relative peak intensities as another factor for polytype identification. For example a specimen consisting substantially of 6H SiC will exhibit a normalized intensity ratio for the 6H 103 to 6H 104 peaks of about 53 to about 23. A parameter Vis then defined as a ratio of the normalized intensity of the 6H 103 peak to that of the sum of the normalized intensities of the 6H 103 and 6H 104 peaks. Using this relationship for Vprovides a Vvalue for a specimen of substantially 6H SiC alone of about 0.7. Deviation of Vfrom a value of about 0.7 may be an indication that polytypes other than 6H SiC may be present in the specimen. As a result of the 3C SiC and 4H SiC peak overlaps a Vvalue determined to be greater than about 0.7 may indicate that 4H SiC may be present in the specimen and a Vvalue determined to be less than about 0.7 may indicate that 3C SiC may be present in the specimen.

In an embodiment the Alpha SiC polytype normalized intensity ratio V of the thin film may be controlled by modulating a ratio R of a gas flow rate of the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas to a sum of gas flow rates of the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas and the chlorosilicon gas. For example in an embodiment the gas flow rate ratio R may be greater than about 0 to about 1.0 about 0.1 to about 0.8 about 0.4 to about 0.9 about 0.1 to about 0.3 about 0.2 to about 0.6 or about 0.3 to about 0.5. With respect to the aforementioned Rvalues in some embodiments the thin film may include an atomic ratio of silicon to carbide of substantially 1 1.

As discussed above the thin film may include a mixture of SiC phases therein. For example the Alpha SiC of the thin film may comprise 6H SiC and at least one of 4H SiC 2H SiC or beta silicon carbide in various proportions depending on the ratio R of the gas flow rate of the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas to a sum of the gas flow rates of the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas and the chlorosilicon gas.

As mentioned above the Alpha SiC polytype normalized intensity ratio V is indicative of different proportions of SiC polytypes e.g. 2H SiC 3C SiC 6H SiC and 4H SiC . For example when the thin film contains a significant portion of 6H Alpha SiC the polytype normalized intensity ratio V may be about 0.4 to about 0.9 about 0.5 to about 0.8 or about 0.6 to about 0.9. In another embodiment when the thin film contains a significant portion of 4H SiC the polytype normalized intensity ratio V may be about 0.5 to about 1.0 about 0.7 to about 0.9 or about 0.8 to about 1.0. If the thin film contains a significant portion of 3C SiC the polytype normalized intensity ratio V may be greater than zero to about 0.6 greater than zero to about 0.4 or about 0.1 to about 0.3. In another embodiment the Alpha SiC containing thin films may include Beta SiC interspersed with the Alpha SiC with the value of V ranging from greater than about zero to about 1.0 about 0.2 to about 0.8 about 0.4 to about 0.9 and about 0.5 to about 0.8.

Similar to the Alpha SiC polytype normalized intensity ratio V an in plane residual film stress of the thin film may also be controlled by controlling the R. The in plane residual film stress of the thin film may be measured using for example a wafer curvature method. For example in an embodiment using a relatively thin substrate the in plane residual stresses in the thin film may cause the substrate to bend. The induced curvature for the multi layer structure as shown in depends on the force applied the elastic properties as well as the thickness for both the silicon based substrate and the thin film .

In an embodiment the in plane residual film stress of the thin film may vary substantially monotonically from about 200 MPa to about 350 MPa as a function an increasing value of R. For example the thin film may exhibit an in plane residual film stress which varies from about 150 MPa to about 375 MPa as a function of the increasing ratio of the flow rates of the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas to a sum of the flow rates of the chlorinated hydrocarbon gas and the chlorosilicon gas R. In an embodiment the thin film may exhibit an in plane residual film stress which varies from about 100 MPa to about 400 MPa from about 250 MPa to about 500 MPa from about 200 MPa to about 200 MPa or from about 50 MPa to about 100 MPa. Relatively low in plane residual film stress may be beneficial in MEMS applications e.g. membranes and beams in which relatively higher in plane residual film stress may causes undesirable buckling.

The thin film may exhibit high acoustic velocities appropriate for applications in certain MEMS devices see such as acoustic resonators sensors actuators springs and many other devices. In an embodiment the multi layer structure may also be used in an electronic device see a sensor or semiconductor device such as a light emitting diode. As mentioned silicon carbide s relatively high acoustic velocity and low material damping make it an excellent material for fabrication of acoustic resonator applications for sensitive and selective liquid phase microsensors. SAW devices are also used as electronic resonators delay lines and filters in communication systems. Although widely used in the telecommunications industry such acoustic devices have many promising features for applications in medicine biosensors automotive and industry gas vapor and humidity sensors .

One of the most routinely used sensing mechanisms that acoustic wave sensors employ is mass loading. Widely used applications of mass loading include film thickness monitoring gas phase chemical sensing liquid phase chemical sensing and biosensing. Given that acoustic energy is confined near a thin surface region of a substrate SAWs are highly sensitive to surface perturbation of the propagating medium allowing the SAW device to operate as a viscosity or mass sensor. For sensing applications within a liquid environment acoustic waves that have the particle displacement substantially parallel to the SAW device surface and substantially normal to the wave propagation direction are preferred. These waves referred to as shear horizontal SH waves may propagate without significant damping.

As shown in such an acoustic modulation may produce a shift in the acoustic resonant frequency f of the SH SAW device . illustrates an acoustic frequency of a reference device and that of an acoustic frequency of an analyte loaded device . A shift in the frequency domain f is due to a mass loading of the analyte interaction with the biochemical coating . A measurement of this shift in frequency domain f may provide a detailed analysis of the analyte. The micron scale dimensions of these SH SAW devices including the Alpha SiC thin film multi layer structures provide an increased surface area to mass ratio that provides for higher sensitivity than other conventional methods. Moreover such devices may provide label free robust detection of the analyte of interest.

Single crystal Alpha SiC containing thin films grown homoepitaxially may provide substrates with low defect densities appropriate for use in electronic applications such as in photovoltaic power inverters FET applications LEDs light emitting diodes and high power electric utility grid switching applications. High power systems based on silicon technology require very expensive cooling technology to maintain performance. SiC power systems can operate at temperatures above 250 C. thereby obviating the need for external cooling and the associated cost.

It should be noted that the devices illustrated in are merely three applications for the multi layer structures including Alpha SiC containing thin films. Various other applications for the multi layer structures including Alpha SiC containing thin films may be employed such as radiation sensors or semiconductor light emitting devices. In such applications the thin film containing Alpha SiC may be fabricated as a single crystal so that it has a relatively low defect density. Other semiconductor device applications include power SiC transistors thyristors Schottky diodes MOSFETs among others.

The following working examples for fabricating thin films including Alpha SiC provide further detail in connection with the specific embodiments described above.

Six SiC thin films were deposited by LPCVD on 150 mm p type Si 100 wafers with a resistivity range of 2 20 ohm cm. The chlorosilicon gas used was DCS and carbon was supplied by a DCE chlorinated hydrocarbon gas into a reaction chamber similar to that shown in . For all six films the thin film deposition was carried out with the substrate at a temperature of about 950 C. and the LPCVD reaction chamber at pressure of about 75 mTorr. To avoid HCl etch damage to the Si 100 surface a 20 nm SiC protective buffer layer was initially deposited onto the substrate at 850 C. with a gas ratio Rof 0.44. The polytype ratio V and residual film stress of the fabricated thin films were controlled by varying the DCE and DCS gas flow or the gas ratio R which is the ratio of the DCE flow to the total DCE DCS flow. The film deposition rate R was found to be inversely proportional to the gas ratio R. The film deposition rate R ranged from about 2 nm min to about 4 nm min depending on the specific working example. Fabrication criteria for the thin films as well as parameters determined by analysis following film fabrication are listed in the following Table I.

Parameters listed in Table I include gas flow ratio values R film deposition rates R and the thickness of the thin film deposited d . For example in the working example of the top row a SiC thin film was deposited using a gas flow ratio value R of 0.3 with a rate of deposition of 3.4 nm min with a thickness of 592 nm. Other parameters listed in Table I include data determined from analysis of the fabricated thin films and include the thin film residual stress the film coefficient of thermal expansion the film thermal expansion mismatch stress the film intrinsic stress and the film polytype ratio V . For example in the same working example on the top row the fabricated thin film was determined to have a residual film stress of 205 MPa a film coefficient of thermal expansion of 4.60 10K a film thermal expansion mismatch stress of 182 MPa a film intrinsic stress of 23.0 MPa and the film polytype ratio V of 0.62.

The in plane residual film stress of the thin films was measured by the wafer curvature method as described herein. The intrinsic stress of the thin films was determined by subtracting the thermal expansion mismatch stress T from the residual stress T where is the difference in the coefficient of thermal expansion between the film and substrate. Because of slight differences in thermal expansion between Alpha SiC and Beta SiC for the film was determined from a weighted average of the two polytypes assuming isostrain conditions.

XRD was performed on the deposited thin films using a Scintag PAD X diffractometer employing a sealed tube Cu X ray source having a 1 mm pinhole incident beam optic. The 2 style goniometer was equipped with a texture cradle 15 to 90 0 to 360 for pole figure measurement where is the tilt angle from surface normal and is the spindle axis . The diffractometer was equipped with a Ge solid state point detector. Pole figure data sets were collected using 5 steps range 0 80 0 355 . Defocusing corrections and intensity vs. angle Iv plots were made using an in house Matlab program. Iv plots were derived by taking the corrected pole figure data and integrating the intensities at a given angle to generate a one dimensional plot of measured intensity for a given angle. Pole figure plots were generated using the program Stereopole ver.1.0 .

Analysis of the XRD data confirmed the presence of Alpha SiC in the deposited thin films. In the case of 6H Alpha SiC the 6H 103 and 6H 104 peaks have expected relative intensities of 53 and 23 respectively based on normalized scaling. Given this fact an assessment of the ratio of SiC to SiC was established. By comparing the integrated intensities of Iv plots obtained from the 6H 103 and 6H 104 pole figures the parameter Vwas derived. A mathematical model of Vwas determined by the quotient of the integrated intensity of the 6H 103 to the sum of the 6H 103 and 6H 104 integrated intensities. The polytype ratio ratio of Alpha SiC to Beta SiC parameter V was derived using the following formula 1 

where Iis the integrated intensity of the peak for a given polytype and crystal plane n and peaks subject to potential superposition are grouped together in brackets.

For the case of substantially pure 6H 6H 103 and 6H 104 peaks the derived model determined a Vvalue of about 53 53 23 0.70 as determined from the relative intensities of 53 to 23 respectively based on a normalized scaling. If the thin film contained a significant portion of SiC then the 3C 200 intensity would superimpose upon the 6H 104 and increase the overall weighting of the Iv plot thus reducing the value to below about 0.70. If the value is in excess of 0.7 it suggests that some 4H SiC is present because the 4H 102 is in an identical 2 location and x tilt to that of the 6H 103 but the 4H polytype does not have a corresponding reflection at 41.4 2 where the 6H 104 and 3C 200 peaks are found. A fully cubic 3C film would have a Vof about zero. A fully hexagonal 4H film would have Vof about 1.0.

The results in Table I show that in all of the thin films fabricated and analyzed within the working examples a Vvalue of greater that 0.6 and less than 0.8 was obtained. This result is consistent with an abundance of 6H and 4H Alpha SiC polytypes present within the thin films fabricated in all six working examples.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

