---

title: Steady rest
abstract: A steady rest for use on a lathe is formed of a tailstock for mounting on an arbor and including a pair of diametrically opposed channels formed in the tailstock wherein each channel extends a pair of struts each slidably mounted within a different one of said channels, respectively, and securable within the channel to lock the respective strut in position, the struts extending from said tail stock toward the workpiece at an angle with respect to a rotary axis of the workpiece being machined. A pair of wheels each journaled on a different one of said struts are provided for contacting said workpiece.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09393655&OS=09393655&RS=09393655
owner: 
number: 09393655
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140916
---
This application is related to and claims priority to a provisional application entitled LIVE CENTER STEADY REST filed Sep. 24 2013 and assigned Ser. No. 61 881 528.

When operating a lathe to turn a workpiece particularly when the workpiece being formed has a large flat or curved surface to be formed the end of the turning operation on the lathe frequently results in a tenon remaining on the workpiece to be removed after the workpiece has been removed from the lathe. For example when forming a bowl shaped surface the bottom center of the bowl would normally need to be removed from the lathe to remove the remaining tenon. The tenon is typically removed by chiseling sawing or simply breaking it off.

The present invention permits the removal of any such tenon while the workpiece remains mounted in the lathe. Lathing operations continue using conventional tools to remove the tenon without interference from any other support that may be used such as a live center that heretofore was used to maintain support for the workpiece during turning. The present invention provides retractable wheels contacting the workpiece to continuously support the workpiece and also permit the retraction of the live center s cone point if a live center is used.

Referring to the embodiment of the invention incorporating a live center is shown. A tailstock is formed by an internally threaded cylindrical sleeve provided with channels machined diametrically opposed on either side of the sleeve . The channels are rectangular in cross section with longitudinal axis slightly inclined with respect to the rotary axis of the workpiece being machined and the axis of the cylindrical sleeve. That is the channels extend to a greater depth in the cylindrical sleeve at one end surface of the cylindrical sleeve to the opposing end of the cylindrical sleeve. These channels receive struts that are slidably contained within the channels and may be moved generally longitudinally of the cylindrical sleeve toward or away from the workpiece. The increasing depth of the channels is best illustrated by the top view of where it may be seen that the struts are at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of the cylindrical sleeve and thus to the rotary axis of the workpiece being machined.

The struts are retained in the corresponding channels by locking screws that extend through holes or slots provided in the struts . Thus the struts may be positioned longitudinally of the threaded sleeve and fixed in position by tightening the respective locking screws . At one end of each of the struts a wheel is journaled and is rotatably secured to the corresponding strut. When the struts are secured in their respective channels to the threaded sleeve and the corresponding wheels are attached to the struts the distance between the wheels may be adjusted by sliding the corresponding struts in their respective channels that is as the struts are extended to the left in the distance between the corresponding wheels increases. Thus the wheel to wheel distance may readily be adjusted by sliding the struts within their corresponding channels.

In the embodiment shown in a live center is provided with a cone point that is rotatable with respect to the remainder of the live center in a manner well known in the art. The live center includes a threaded cylinder having a pair of opposing flats . The diameter of the cylinder and the pitch of the threads permit the threaded engagement of the cylinder in the threaded sleeve . As the cylinder is threaded into the sleeve the cone point extends a greater or lesser distance out of the end of the threaded sleeve. The longitudinal position of the cone point may be fixed by a knurled locking screw threadedly extending through locking holes or in the threaded sleeve and engaging one of the flats in the threaded cylinder .

In use when for example a cylindrical tenon is to be removed from the surface of a workpiece the knurled locking screw is loosened and the threaded cylinder is backed out of the threaded sleeve to permit the cone point to disengage the workpiece. The threaded sleeve combined with the positioning of the struts thereon is positioned with the wheels in contact with the workpiece. The wheels force the workpiece to remain engaged with a driving chuck plate or chuck mount while the cone point of the live center is withdrawn. This procedure thus exposes the cylindrical tenon to permit its removal using conventional woodturning tools. It thus becomes unnecessary to remove the workpiece to remove the tenon by sawing chiseling etc.

Referring to an alternative embodiment of the present invention is shown. In this latter embodiment the live center has been omitted and the tailstock is formed by a cylindrical disk having a center cylindrical passage to receive a chuck arbor in a manner well known in the art. The disc is provided with diametrically opposing pairs of rectangular channels and . The channels are machined in the tailstock so that the bottom surface of the respective channel is slightly inclined with respect to the rotary axis of the workpiece being machined. For example it may be seen that the bottom surface of channel is inclined towards the axis in the direction of a workpiece while the bottom surface of channel is inclined away from the axis in the direction of a workpiece. Thus the diametrically opposed channels and incorporate bottom surfaces that are inclined slighted with respect to the axis and are inclined toward the axis in contrast the diametrically opposed channels and have bottom surfaces that are inclined in the opposite direction. The surfaces of the channels and diverge from the axis in the direction of a workpiece while the diametrically opposed channels and are inclined toward the axis in the direction of a workpiece being machined. Thus a strut may be secured for example in the channel by securing the locking screw through the slot into the threaded hole provided in the tailstock which will result in the strut extending upwardly from the tailstock slightly inclined away from the axis .

The wheel secured to the strut will thus be positioned as shown in the distances between the wheels and are adjusted by loosening the corresponding locking screw and sliding the respective supporting strut within its corresponding channel and retightening the locking screws. If a shorter range of distances between the wheels and is required the corresponding struts are moved from the diametrically opposed channels and to alternate opposing channels and . Since their inclined surfaces of channels and are angled toward the axis the distance between the wheels and will be less but will nevertheless still be adjustable. If it is determined that adjustment is not necessary and that the selection of the diverging or converging surfaces of the respective channel pairs is sufficient the slots in each of the struts may be eliminated and replaced by a single hole to receive the corresponding locking screw that will engage a mating threaded hole in the tailstock .

The present invention has been described in terms of selected specific embodiments of the apparatus and method incorporating details to facilitate the understanding of the principles of construction and operation of the invention. Such reference herein to a specific embodiment and details thereof is not intended to limit the scope of the claims appended hereto. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications may be made in the embodiments chosen for illustration without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

