---

title: Federated bluetooth device network with roaming capability
abstract: A system includes digital media rendering devices and logic to federate the plurality of devices into a single federated rendering device for a proximate mobile device. The system accepts a request from the mobile device for rendering services by the federated rendering device via a rendering protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226101&OS=09226101&RS=09226101
owner: Surround IO
number: 09226101
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140604
---
A variety of protocols exist which enable the remote use of speakers mics and displays by devices. The Bluetooth wireless protocol provides a convenient way for cell phones to use external microphones and speakers without any cable attachment. Bluetooth is pervasively available on most cellphones in most new cars and in many headset products. The Airplay wireless procotol provides a convenient way for PCs mobile devices or other devices to render their audio and video output on a remote display. A similar protocol called Miracast performs the same function as does DLNA.

Small devices sometimes called Internet of Things devices with cameras mics and speakers are becoming very cheap and a wide variety of products are becoming available. It is reasonable to expect that a typical house or office may have tens or hundreds of devices with mics and speakers. As speaker microphone devices become very cheap there might be one in every room in a house or even many in a room. Speakers and microphones may become embedded in many other commonly installed devices TVs PCs tablets etc. And in the office environment there may be one in every room and conference rooms may have many inexpensive speakers and mics.

While these devices could work as remote Bluetooth mics and speakers or Airplay speakers the Bluetooth and Airplay protocols are awkward for this scenario. A user would have to explicitly pair their phone with many mics and speakers and continually link and unlink to the closest mic and speaker. Additionally if many users want to use the devices as Bluetooth mics and speakers the constant linking and unlinking is complicated to manage with many possibilities for collision and contention.

 Sensor in this context refers to a device or composition of matter that responds to a physical stimulus as heat light sound pressure magnetism or a particular motion and transmits a resulting impulse as for measurement or operating a control .

 Microphone in this context refers to an acoustic to electric transducer or sensor that converts sound into an electrical signal. Many microphones use electromagnetic induction dynamic microphone capacitance change condenser microphone piezoelectric generation or light modulation to produce an electrical voltage signal from mechanical vibration.

 Camera in this context refers to a device that records images and or video either as analog or as digital information signals.

 Stereo in this context refers to sound reproduction that creates directionality and audible perspective by using two or more independent audio channels through a configuration of two or more speakers in such a way as to create the impression of sound heard from various directions as in natural hearing.

 Speaker in this context refers to an electroacoustic transducer that produces sound in response to an electrical or optical audio signal input.

 Motion detector in this context refers to a device that detects moving objects often people. A motion detector includes a motion sensor that transforms input signals indicative of motion in the field of view into an electric signal. This may be achieved by measuring optical changes in the field of view.

 Magnetometer in this context refers to a device used to measure the strength and in some cases the direction of magnetic fields.

 LED in this context refers to light emitting diode a semiconductor light source including one or more diodes that when biased release energy in the form of photons.

 GPS in this context refers to Global Positioning System a space based satellite navigation system that provides location and time information in most weather conditions anywhere on or near the Earth where there is an unobstructed line of sight to four or more GPS satellites. The system provides critical capabilities to military civil and commercial users around the world. It is maintained by the United States government and is freely accessible to anyone with a GPS receiver.

 Multimedia in this context refers to an image or a set of images or a video clip or a set of video clips and any audio associated with the images or video clips.

 Image in this context refers to information captured and stored by a device representing a visual perception usually a two dimensional picture. Images may be captured stored and communicated by devices in either analog or digital formats.

 Video in this context refers to information captured and stored by a device representing a sequence of moving pictures. Video may be captured stored and communicated by devices in either analog or digital formats.

 Audio in this context refers to a representation of sound within a device or a physical storage or communication media typically as either analog or digital signals.

 API in this context refers to Application Programming Interface a protocol for interfacing to and invoking functions and data of logic components. For example an API may include specification for logic procedures functions routines data structures object classes and variables.

 Synchronize in this context refers to operating in unison so that the operation or occurance of one component or signal is timed to take place at or close to the operation or occurance of another component or signal.

 Monitor in this context refers to measuring or recording on an ongoing or recurring basis for a specific purpose.

 Integrate in this context refers to forming coordinating and or blending into a functioning and unified whole.

 Mechanism in this context refers to a process technique device or system of devices for achieving a result.

 Biometric in this context refers to a measurement and analysis of a unique physical or behavioral characteristic of an individual as a mechanism of verifying the individual s identity.

 Coordinate in this context refers to a process or configuration of bringing objects or signals into a common action or condition.

 Process Data in this context refers to data processing any process that utilizes device logic to manipulate signals representing numeric values or symbols into control signals to a circuit output device or communication media. Data processing may involve recording analyzing sorting summarizing calculating disseminating and storing electrical optical or magnetic signals representing numbers or symbols. Data processing devices and systems of devices typically manipulate data signals to alter the material configuration of machine memory devices or the behavior of circuits or output devices.

 Resource Device in this context refers to any physical or virtual component of limited quantity and or availability within a device. Every device connected to a computer system is a resource. Every internal system component is a resource. Virtual system resources of data processing devices include files network connections and memory areas.

 Session in this context refers to an exchange of signals between two or more communicating devices or between a device and a person that begins with an explicit set up procedure and ends at a certain point in time either implicitly or by being torn down. Signals between the devices between establishment of the session and the end of the session are not part of the session. An established communication session may involve more than one message in each direction. A session is sometimes stateful meaning that at least one of the communicating parts needs to save information about the session establishment or history in order to be able to communicate as opposed to stateless communication where the communication comprises independent requests with responses and no requirement of stored state to maintain communication.

 Database in this context refers to an organized collection of data states of matter representing values symbols or control signals to device logic structured typically into tables that comprise rows and columns although this structure is not implemented in every case.

 Application logic in this context refers to logic that causes a computer to perform tasks beyond the basic operation of the computer itself. The term application may be abbreviated in some contexts to simply app . An application may be logic built upon or integrated with operating system logic. Examples of application logic include enterprise software accounting software office suites graphics software games web browsers and media players. Applications may be bundled with the computer and its system software or published separately. Application logic applies the capabilities of a particular computing platform or system software to a particular purpose. Some applications are available in versions for several different platforms others have narrower requirements and are thus called for example a Geography application for Windows or an Android application for education or Linux gaming.

 Operating system logic in this context refers to logic that manages device hardware resources and provides common services for application logic. The operating system is a vital component of many devices such as computers and mobile phones. Application logic usually requires an operating system in order to function. Operating systems typically manage utilization of device resources such as I O devices displays processor utilization memory mass storage and printing. The operating system acts as an intermediary between applications and the hardware resources although applications are often though not always in the case of virtual machines executed directly by the device hardware e.g. one or more CPUs and will frequently make system calls to the operating system or be interrupted by it. Operating systems can be found on almost any device that contains a programmable processor or controller from cellular phones and video game consoles to supercomputers and web servers.

 Distributed logic in this context refers to logic that cooperatively executes on multiple different devices separated in space and each capable of operating independently of the others. Web services may be designed as distributed logic with many different independent devices in disparate locations cooperating to provide a common set of features.

 Web service logic in this context refers to logic which can be invoked to provide functionality to network devices at a network address over the Internet or a private network. A web service provides interoperable machine to machine interaction to make available a set of functionality over a network.

 SOC logic in this context refers to System On A Chip also sometimes called PSOC Programmable System on a Chip is logic that integrates all components of a computer or other electronic system into a single integrated circuit. The package may comprise digital analog mixed signal and often radio frequency functions all on a single integrated circuit substrate. A common use for SOCs is in embedded systems.

 Server logic in this context refers to logic designed to respond to requests for functionality from client logic that interacts with the server logic via a request response model often over a network. Thus the server performs some operation utilizing the underlying resources of the device or devices hosting the server on behalf of clients request submitters . The client logic either executes on the same device or devices as the server logic or interacts with the server logic through a machine data network.

 Data center logic in this context refers to a facility used to house computer systems and associated components such as telecommunications and storage systems. It generally includes redundant or backup power supplies redundant data communications connections environmental controls e.g. air conditioning fire suppression and security devices as well as hundreds or thousands of server systems. Large data centers are industrial scale operations.

 Engine logic in this context refers to logic designed to respond to requests for functionality from applications and designed to deliver events to applications. The engine operates independently from applications performing arbitrary processing and can provide services to several applications simultaneously. The engine may response to a specific request from an application or may deliver notifications or events to the application based on actions elsewhere in the system.

 Game engine logic in this context refers to logic design to respond to request for functionality from game applications and designed to deliver events to game applications. The game engine may keep track of game state shared by several players may notify game applications of the arrival or departure of players may forward commands and events from one player to another or provide any other services for a game.

 WiFi in this context refers to technology that allows an electronic device to exchange data wirelessly for example using radio waves over a computer network including Internet connections. WiFi can refer to wireless local area network WLAN communication logic and techniques that are based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards.

 BlueTooth in this context refers to standard IEEE 802.15.1 is a wireless technology standard for exchanging data over short distances using short wavelength radio transmissions in the ISM band from 2400 2480 MHz from fixed and mobile devices creating for example personal area networks with levels of security.

 Ethernet in this context refers to a family of computer networking technologies for local area networks LANs . The Ethernet standards comprise several wiring and signaling variants of the OSI physical layer. Ethernet may operate over physical transmission media including coaxial cables twisted pair and fiber optic. Ethernet divides a stream of data into shorter pieces called frames. Each frame contains source and destination addresses and error checking data so that damaged data can be detected and re transmitted. As per the OSI model Ethernet provides services up to and including the data link layer.

 Z Wave in this context refers to a wireless communications protocol designed for home automation specifically to remotely control applications in residential and light commercial environments. The technology uses a low power RF radio embedded or retrofitted into home electronics devices and systems such as lighting home access control entertainment systems and household appliances. Z Wave communicates using a low power wireless technology designed for remote control applications. The Z Wave wireless protocol provides reliable low latency communication of small data packets. Z Wave operates in the sub gigahertz frequency range around 900 MHz.

 RFID in this context refers to radio frequency identification a wireless non contact system that uses radio frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data from a self contained tag attached to an object. Some tags require no intrinsic power source and are powered and read at short ranges via magnetic fields electromagnetic induction . Others use an intrinsic or local power source and emit radio waves electromagnetic radiation at radio frequencies . The tag contains electronically stored information which may be read from a short distance away. The tag does not need to be within line of sight of the reader and may be embedded in the tracked object.

 Backhaul in this context refers to the intermediate links between a network and devices on the edge of the network i.e. leaf nodes of the network . Backhaul may refer to the portions of a local or intermediate network e.g. Internet Service Provider that communicate with the global Internet.

 Mesh network in this context refers to a type of device network where each node device must not only input store and disseminate its own data but also serve as a relay for other nodes. That is each device that acts as a node in a mesh network must collaborate to propagate data communicated from other nodes in the network.

 Modem in this context refers to modulator demodulator a device that modulates an analog carrier signal to encode digital information and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.

 Phone line in this context refers to a circuit on a telephone communication system typically referring to the physical wire or other signaling medium connecting or capable of connecting a telephone device to the telecommunications network and usually associated with a telephone number for addressing communications to and from the connected telephone.

 Cable Line in this context refers to a physical media for distributing data audio streams and video streams to end devices in homes and offices via radio frequency RF signals transmitted typically through coaxial cables or light pulses through fiber optic cables.

 Cellular Device in this context refers to a device that can place and receive voice communication calls and typically also communicate non voice data over a radio link while moving around a wide geographic area. Cellular devices connect to a cellular network provided by a cellular system operator e.g. a phone company allowing access thereby to the public wired communication telephone network and usually to the global Internet as well.

 Peer to peer in this context refers to a device network in which each device acting as a node in the network may act as a client or server for the other nodes in the network allowing shared access to various resources such as files peripherals and sensors without necessarily utilizing a central server device.

 IP in this context refers to Internet Protocol a primary protocol in the Internet protocol suite designed to enable delivery of data packets from a source device to a destination device based on an address i.e. an IP address . IP defines datagram structures that encapsulate the data to be delivered. It also defines addressing mechanisms to identify the datagram source and destination devices.

 FTP in this context refers to File Transfer Protocol a standard network protocol to enable the transfer of files collections of data that may be stored referenced and manipulated as a unit from one device or to another device over a TCP based network such as the Internet. TCP in this context refers to Transmission Control Protocol a primary protocol of the Internet protocol suite enabling reliable ordered delivery of a stream of octets from one device to another over device networks such as the Internet.

 UV in this context refers to ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength shorter than that of visible light but longer than X rays that is in the range 10 nm to 400 nm corresponding to photon energies from 3 eV to 124 eV.

 IR in this context refers to infrared electromagnetic radiation with longer wavelengths than those of visible light extending from the nominal red edge of the visible spectrum at 0.74 micrometers m to 0.3 mm. This range of wavelengths corresponds to a frequency range of approximately 430 down to 1 THz 1 and includes most of the thermal radiation emitted by objects near room temperature.

 RF in this context refers to radio frequency a rate of oscillation in the range of about 3 kHz to 300 GHz which corresponds to the frequency of electromagnetic radio waves and the alternating currents which carry radio signals. RF usually refers to electrical rather than mechanical oscillations although mechanical RF systems do exist.

 DNS in this context refers to Domain Name Service an collection of devices and logic implementing a hierarchical distributed naming system for devices services Internet accessible logic or any resource connected to the Internet or a private network. A DNS system translates domain names meaningful for users people using the network to the numerical IP addresses needed for the purpose of locating devices services and resources worldwide.

 Web site in this context refers to a set of one or more web pages served from a single web domain. A web site is presented for access by external devices by at least one web server and accessible via a network such as the Internet or a private local area network through an Internet address known as a Uniform Resource Locator.

 URL in this context refers to Uniform Resource Locator a character string that comprises a reference to a network resource typically one that is accessible to a web browser via an interaction with a web server.

 Web page in this context refers to a file configured for access and display via a web browser over the Internet or Internet compatible networks.

 Web browser in this context refers to logic for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web. An information resource is identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier URI and may be a web page image video or other piece of content. Hyperlinks present in resources enable users easily to navigate their browsers to related resources. A web browser can also be defined as an application software or program designed to enable users to access retrieve and view documents and other resources on the Internet.

 Web server in this context refers to a device or device system that delivers web pages in response to requests for the web pages from web browsers.

 Web domain in this context refers to an Internet Protocol IP resource such as a personal computer used to access the Internet a web server computer hosting a web site the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet.

 RSS in this context refers to Really Simple Syndication a family of data formats and techniques to publish frequently updated works of authorship. An RSS document which is called a feed web feed or channel may include full or summarized text plus metadata such as publishing dates and authorship.

 Cloud Network in this context refers to device resources delivered as a service over a network typically the Internet .

References to one embodiment or an embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although they may. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively unless expressly limited to a single one or multiple ones. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the claims use the word or in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list unless expressly limited to one or the other.

 Logic refers to machine memory circuits machine readable media and or circuitry which by way of its material and or material energy configuration comprises control and or procedural signals and or settings and values such as resistance impedance capacitance inductance current voltage ratings etc. that may be applied to influence the operation of a device. Magnetic media electronic circuits electrical and optical memory both volatile and nonvolatile and firmware are examples of logic.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that logic may be distributed throughout one or more devices and or may be comprised of combinations memory media processing circuits and controllers other circuits and so on. Therefore in the interest of clarity and correctness logic may not always be distinctly illustrated in drawings of devices and systems although it is inherently present therein.

The techniques and procedures described herein may be implemented via logic distributed in one or more computing devices. The particular distribution and choice of logic will vary according to implementation.

Devices and a system are described which enable a network of monitoring devices to be federated and act as a single rendering device for multiple concurrent users these devices are designated host devices as they host the federated rendering service and collectively form the federated device . Devices such as cell phones requesting the rendering service are designated client devices. Client devices may request rendering services from the federated device via a rendering protocol such as Bluetooth Airplay DLNA or any other protocol which permits remote rendering.

In one embodiment the system is enabled by a collection of devices each of which has sensors including but not limited to cameras microphones motion sensors accelerometers and proximity sensors. The devices may also incorporate a variety of outputs including but not limited to video audio speakers and LED lights. The devices will have network connectivity of some sort and may utilize AC or battery power. The devices may be standalone devices or integrated into other electric and electronic devices and may be stationary movable or even mobile drones . The devices can be used alone or in groups. More detail on exemplary logic for the devices that form the federated network is described in Appendix A Exemplary Host Device .

Each host device comprises logic to federate rendering activity. There may be an additional service that runs on a central server or network service to coordinate and manage the host devices or this responsibility may be distributed across the host devices peer to peer .

Each host device presents its availability as a rendering device via the mechanisms of the particular rendering protocol. A client device such as a cell phone pairs and links with the federated device at any one of the host devices via the rendering protocol. Each host device responds on demand to any request for rendering service and provides a virtual device name to a cell phone or other client device requesting service. The host devices maintain a shared database of client devices and connection status. One sequence embodiment of operations for the host device is as follows 

The host devices communicate between themselves to keep the shared database synchronized using off the shelf database synchronization solutions. Multiple users can pair their client devices with host devices. To each cell phone or client device at a protocol level the network of host devices appears as a single device a single Bluetooth device or a single Airplay device etc. If the client device moves the host devices cooperate to hand link responsibility off between one another. To the client device this is transparent as each host device presents itself as the same virtual paired device. As a client device moves from an area serviced by host device A to that serviced by host device B the handoff occurs as follows 

As a user moves through the space covered by the participating host devices the user s location is tracked. This may happen via motion tracking via voice recognition via electronic detection of the user s phone or logins via integration with the user s calendar by some explicit action on the user s part or by any other mechanism available and by any combination of these mechanisms. The location of the closest host device is noted in the shared database.

When the client device wishes to render content to the host device nearest the user the host devices cooperate to route the content to the correct host device. For instance when an inbound call arrives the user s phone notifies the a host device of the federated device e.g. host device A that it is currently linked with via the Bluetooth protocol that a call has arrived. Host device A reads the user s current location from the shared database and retrieves the address of the host device serving that user host device B. Host device A establishes a connection with host device B and sends the call information to host device B and host device B presents an inbound call alert ringing voice announcement on screen alert or other mechanism. The user can accept the call by voice command gesture or other method of interaction with host device B. Host device B updates the shared database and notifies host device A to complete the call. Incoming audio is then routed from the phone over the Bluetooth connection to host device A then over the IP network to host device B and then rendered at the speaker at that device. Outgoing audio follows the reverse path.

The user can create do not disturb rules by time and location. These are noted in the shared database and the host devices will respect these rules and only attempt to complete calls if permitted. Outbound calls are initiated by voice gesture or other means. Outgoing audio is then picked up by the mic at host device B routed over the IP network to host device A sent to the phone over the Bluetooth connection and then out on the carrier network using the standard telephony services. Incoming audio follows the reverse path.

As the user moves their location is tracked. Audio for the current call is handed off to closest device continuously.

As a refinement this handoff may happen gradually and rendering may happen simultaneously at both device B and device C for a period of time or within an overlapping service boundary of B and C. The user can also expand or move rendering to additional devices via gesture or other interface. For instance if the user wants audio to be broadcast over 5 devices the user can indicate the 5 devices via some interface e.g. an inclusive gesture to a camera federated with the host devices and audio will be broadcast over all these.

Multiple users may utilize the system simultaneously. Their phones or other devices can each independently pair with a host device and each user will be tracked and audio can be routed to each user s location. If two users enter the same area for a call they can optionally merge their calls into a single conference call. A host device that is currently engaged with rendering a call for user can detect that user has entered the area serviced by the host. The users can then indicate by gesture or some other interface that they wish to merge the calls. If the calls are merged the rendering host 

If the users choose not to merge the calls then rendering of the newly arrived user s call will either 

The system allows a caller to easily use many disparate microphones and speakers for their calling without the burden of constantly pairing. The system allows a caller to easily move from one mic speaker to another during a call. The system allows many callers to use the same installed based of mics and speakers easily. The system provides a convenient way to create a conference call.

A rendering process accepts incoming ring signals and audio from a pairing process and renders them locally on the local speakers . The process gets input from the user to accept calls or to initiate calls . The rendering process takes this call management input and any microphone input and delivers it back to the pairing processing which is connected to the user s phone .

A tracking process keeps track of which users are in the area of the device and updates a location database . As users change location it shares location change information with other devices so that the location database is kept up to date .

The techniques and procedures described herein may be implemented via logic distributed in one or more computing devices. The particular distribution and choice of logic is a design decision that will vary according to implementation.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various logic implementations by which processes and or systems described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes are deployed. Software refers to logic that may be readily readapted to different purposes e.g. read write volatile or nonvolatile memory or media . Firmware refers to logic embodied as read only memories and or media. Hardware refers to logic embodied as analog and or digital circuits. If an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a solely software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations may involve optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood as notorious by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. Several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in standard integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of circuitry. Consequently as used herein circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use standard engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into larger systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a network processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation.

The foregoing described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality.

via WiFi mesh peer to peer with other co located WiFi devices and wirelessly terminating at a modem phone line cable line or other wired transmission media 

a cellular radio as a back up communication source if a primary communication media fails due to a power or service outage or due to tampering.

powered using rechargeable batteries. The battery may be easily swapped out for a replacement battery and if the device is autonomous can use inductive charging so that human intervention is not required to recharge batteries.

The product can be deployed in many ways in either stand alone mode or in a multi unit cooperative mode 

Stationary devices can also be moved by the device owner to provide monitoring in different areas at different times.

A device may replace an existing smoke alarm or an existing set of light switches or light bulb. It should be installed in a location with good optical visibility of the area it is intended to monitor. The unit may provide a customizable case enabling the installation of custom veneers covers.

