---

title: System and method for automatically authenticating a caller
abstract: Systems and methods include an input interface that receives registration information including a contact number input into a mobile device of a user, a call interface that transmits a call signal to a call center system, wherein the call signal comprises the call signal contact number that placed a call associated with the call signal and a communication interface that transmits the registration information to a profile database that stores the registration information as a profile for authenticating the mobile device user and identifying information from the mobile device of the user during the call. The call center system includes a call authentication processor that retrieves the user profile, an authentication interface that receives the identifying information, and an authentication processor that compares the identifying information with the user profile, and routes the call on an authenticated call path if the identifying information at least partially matches the user profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501776&OS=09501776&RS=09501776
owner: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
number: 09501776
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140909
---
This application contains subject matter related to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 875 251 filed on Sep. 9 2013 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for using a mobile device to securely and automatically authenticate a caller s identity.

Currently when an account holder at a financial institution encounters a problem with his account he generally must call a customer service representative from the financial institution. As part of the call the caller must provide authenticating information to the customer service representative or to an automated system such as an account number social security number and or vocal sample to provide proof of identity e.g. authenticate the customer and proceed with the call and receive assistance. This adds delays and inconvenience for the caller who is trying to resolve an issue or have a question answered and can lead to a poor customer experience.

The following description is intended to convey a thorough understanding of the embodiments described by providing a number of specific example embodiments and details involving systems and methods for automatically authenticating a caller s identity. It should be appreciated however that the present disclosure is not limited to these specific embodiments and details which are examples only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art in light of known systems and methods would appreciate the use of the invention for its intended purposes and benefits in any number of alternative embodiments depending on specific design and other needs. A financial institution and system supporting a financial institution are used as examples for the disclosure. The disclosure is not intended to be limited to financial institutions only. The description below describes servers devices and network elements that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly shown others are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are examples. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

In various embodiments the authentication processor profile database and or the call processor may be separate from financial institution . As referred to herein a network enabled computer system and or device may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser or other device. The network enabled computer systems may execute one or more software applications to for example receive data as input from an entity accessing the network enabled computer system process received data transmit data over a network and receive data over a network. The one or more network enabled computer systems may also include one or more software applications to enable the creation and provisioning of account services to mobile device such as Caller authentication application . In various embodiments caller authentication application may be associated with and or integrated into for example a mobile application of a financial institution.

The components depicted in may store information in various electronic storage media such as for example profile database . Electronic information files and documents may be stored in various ways including for example a flat file indexed file hierarchical database relational database such as a coupon database created and maintained with software from for example Oracle Corporation Microsoft Excel file Microsoft Access file or any other storage mechanism.

The components depicted in may be coupled via one or more networks such as for example network . Network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of the example types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively coupled. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

As shown in Financial institution may include call center . Call center may be configured to receive telephone calls made to financial institution such as customer service calls. Call center may comprise one or more network enabled computers operated by customer service representatives. Call center may be located separately from financial institution and may be operated by a third party. When caller places a call to financial institution the call may be routed through network to be received at call center as will be explained in greater detail below.

Call center may include a path for unauthenticated calls and a path for authenticated calls . Unauthenticated calls may be directed to customer service representatives or automated systems e.g. Interactive Voice Response units IVRs that may request identifying information from the caller before the caller can proceed further. Authenticated calls will be directed to customer service representatives or automated systems that may not request identifying information from the caller because the identifying information has already been provided to authentication processor and call processor as will be described below.

In various example embodiments caller may be any individual or entity that desires to contact financial institution . Caller may have on or more accounts with financial institution . Also a caller may be a computer system associated with or operated by such an individual or entity.

Financial institution may be for example a bank e.g. a retail bank direct bank and or commercial bank other type of financial institution including a credit card and or debit card provider brokerage services provider for example and or any other entity that offers accounts to customers. An account may include any place location object entity or other mechanism for holding money or performing transactions in any form including without limitation electronic form. An account may be for example a credit card account a prepaid card account stored value card account debit card account check card account payroll card account gift card account prepaid credit card account charge card account checking account rewards account line of credit account credit account mobile device account an account or service that links to an underlying payment account already described or mobile commerce account. An account may or may not have an associated card such as for example a credit card for a credit account or a debit card for a debit account. The account may enable payment using biometric authentication or contactless based forms of authentication such as QR codes or near field communications. The account card may be associated or affiliated with one or more social networking sites such as a co branded credit card.

Caller may have one or more mobile devices such as mobile device . Mobile device may be for example a handheld PC a phone a smartphone a PDA a tablet computer wearable device or other device. Mobile device may be able to make telephone calls such as telephone call . Telephone call may be over network . Telephone call may be over a separate network from network not shown . Telephone call may be a wireless call over a cellular network a landline call using the public switched telephone network PSTN and or a Voice over IP VoIP call.

Mobile device may include one or more software applications such as Caller authentication application . Caller authentication application may be downloaded onto mobile device over network . Caller authentication application may be pre installed on mobile device . For example caller authentication application may be associated with and or integrated into for example a mobile application of the financial institution. Caller authentication application may be a software application that enables mobile device to transmit information to authentication processor such as data transfer . Telephone call and or data transfer may utilize Signaling System Number 7 SS7 . Telephone call and or data transfer also may be transmitted and received utilizing Session Initiation Protocol SIP or H.323. In other embodiments the telephone call may be transmitted and or received utilizing using Voice Over IP VoIP . Telephone call and or data transfer may be transmitted and or received using Voice Over LTE VoLTE or messaging protocols. Data also may be transmitted and or received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet TCP IP Protocols or other protocols and systems suitable for transmitting and receiving broadcast or parallel search data.

Client device may be a network enabled computer As referred to herein a network enabled computer may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser or other device. The one or more network enabled computers of the example system may execute one or more software applications to enable for example network communications.

Client device also may be a mobile device For example a mobile device may include an iPhone iPod iPad from Apple or any other mobile device running Apple s iOS operating system any device running Google s Android operating system including for example Google s wearable device Google Glass any device running Microsoft s Windows Mobile operating system and or any other smartphone or like wearable mobile device.

Network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of a wireless network and a wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Networks PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of example types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively couples. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

Front end controlled domain may be implemented to provide security for backend . Load balancer s may distribute workloads across multiple computing resources such as for example computers a computer cluster network links central processing units or disk drives. In various embodiments load balancer s may distribute workloads across for example web server S and or backend systems. Load balancing aims to optimize resource use maximize throughput minimize response time and avoid overload of any one of the resources. Using multiple components with load balancing instead of a single component may increase reliability through redundancy. Load balancing is usually provided by dedicated software or hardware such as a multilayer switch or a Domain Name System DNS server process.

Load balancer s may include software that monitoring the port where external clients such as for example client device connect to access various services of a financial institution for example. Load balancer s may forward requests to one of the application servers and or backend servers which may then reply to load balancer . This may allow load balancer s to reply to client device without client device ever knowing about the internal separation of functions. It also may prevent client devices from contacting backend servers directly which may have security benefits by hiding the structure of the internal network and preventing attacks on backend or unrelated services running on other ports for example.

A variety of scheduling algorithms may be used by load balancer s to determine which backend server to send a request to. Simple algorithms may include for example random choice or round robin. Load balancers also may account for additional factors such as a server s reported load recent response times up down status determined by a monitoring poll of some kind number of active connections geographic location capabilities or how much traffic it has recently been assigned.

Load balancers may be implemented in hardware and or software. Load balancer s may implement numerous features including without limitation asymmetric loading Priority activation SSL Offload and Acceleration Distributed Denial of Service DDoS attack protection HTTP compression TCP offloading TCP buffering direct server return health checking HTTP caching content filtering HTTP security priority queuing rate shaping content aware switching client authentication programmatic traffic manipulation firewall intrusion prevention systems.

Web server s may include hardware e.g. one or more computers and or software e.g. one or more applications that deliver web content that can be accessed by for example a client device e.g. client device through a network e.g. network such as the Internet. In various examples web servers may deliver web pages relating to for example online banking applications and the like to clients e.g. client device . Web server s may use for example a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or sHTTP to communicate with client device . The web pages delivered to client device may include for example HTML documents which may include images style sheets and scripts in addition to text content.

A user agent such as for example a web browser web crawler or native mobile application may initiate communication by making a request for a specific resource using HTTP and web server may respond with the content of that resource or an error message if unable to do so. The resource may be for example a file on stored on backend . Web server s also may enable or facilitate receiving content from client device so client device AO2 may be able to for example submit web forms including uploading of files.

Web server s also may support server side scripting using for example Active Server Pages ASP PHP or other scripting languages. Accordingly the behavior of web server s can be scripted in separate files while the actual server software remains unchanged.

Application server s may include hardware and or software that is dedicated to the efficient execution of procedures e.g. programs routines scripts for supporting its applied applications. Application server s may comprise one or more application server frameworks including for example Java application servers e.g. Java platform Enterprise Edition Java EE the .NET framework from Microsoft PHP application servers and the like . The various application server frameworks may contain a comprehensive service layer model. Also application server s may act as a set of components accessible to for example a financial institution or other entity implementing system through an API defined by the platform itself. For Web applications these components may be performed in for example the same running environment as web server s and application servers may support the construction of dynamic pages. Application server s also may implement services such as for example clustering fail over and load balancing. In various embodiments where application server s are Java application servers the web server s may behaves like an extended virtual machine for running applications transparently handling connections to databases associated with backend on one side and connections to the Web client e.g. client device on the other.

Backend may include hardware and or software that enables the backend services of for example a financial institution or other entity that maintains a distributes system similar to system . For example backend may include a system of record online banking applications a rewards platform a payments platform a lending platform including the various services associated with for example auto and home lending platforms a statement processing platform a call center system a caller authentication system one or more platforms that provide mobile services one or more platforms that provide online services a card provisioning platform a general ledger system and the like. Backend may be associated with various databases including account databases that maintain for example customer account information product databases that maintain information about products and services available to customers content databases that store content associated with for example a financial institution and the like. Backend also may be associated with one or more servers that enable the various services provided by system .

Referring now to is a schematic diagram of the components of the Caller authentication Application according to an example embodiment of the disclosure. Caller authentication application may be a stand alone application on the mobile device that provides the functionality described herein. As noted above the functionality of the caller authentication application may be included as part of a larger mobile application for mobile banking such as a mobile banking application provided by financial institution and or a third party.

As shown in Caller authentication application may include one or more modules to provide various functionalities associated with providing automatic caller identification in accordance with the embodiments of the present disclosure. In the example embodiment shown in Caller authentication application may include a user interface module a profile module a telephony module and a services module . The operation of these modules will be explained in greater detail in connection with .

User interface module may provide caller with an interactive series of displays on a mobile device e.g. mobile device that allow caller to input information using a keypad or touchscreen on mobile device . When a caller activates Caller authentication application on his mobile device for the first time user interface module may prompt caller to register his identifying information. Identifying information may be a username a password social security number one or more account numbers for accounts that caller has with financial institution name address one or more phone numbers associated with mobile device email address and biometric information. The financial institution may predetermine or preselect which identifying information it will require to authenticate a caller. The financial institution may from time to time change this identifying information and require the user to re register the required identifying information. This identifying information may be provided to profile module . Thereafter when caller activates Caller authentication application user interface module may prompt the caller to enter the username and or password in order to proceed. User interface module also may prompt the caller to provide biometric information such as a fingerprint retinal scan or voice sample in order to proceed.

Profile module may store the identifying information received from user interface module . In various embodiments profile module may store identifying information in for example a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or secure element associated with the mobile device. The first time profile module receives the identifying information profile module may register the identifying information with financial institution by securely transmitting the identifying information to authentication processor using data transfer . Data transfer may be an encrypted data transfer. Authentication processor may compare the identifying information to account information stored at financial institution to ensure that the user associated with the identifying information has an account with financial institution . Authentication processor may then store the identifying information in profile database where it is associated with caller . At this point caller will have a profile in profile database that includes the identifying information account number s caller s telephone number s for mobile device and other information that uniquely identifies caller .

Caller also may register the identifying information directly to financial institution using one or more websites provided by for example financial institution and or a third party associated with financial institution .

Telephony module may allow caller to make a telephone call to financial institution and or call center . Telephony module may provide caller with an interface to dial a phone number associated with financial institution or click or press a hyperlink or button to automatically dial the number for financial institution . When caller dials the number for financial institution and or call center telephony module may interact with mobile device via for example an application programming interface API on the mobile device to place the call for example via telephone call to financial institution . Telephony module also may be incorporated in a mobile device and in such an embodiment caller authentication application may include an API to interact with telephony module . At the same time telephony module may signal profile module to securely transmit caller s identifying information to authentication processor for example via data transfer . This process will be described in greater detail in connection with .

In various embodiments telephony module may be configured to recognize when caller dials the number associated with financial institution and or call center from mobile phone even if caller has not opened the Caller authentication application . If telephony module detects that caller has dialed the number for financial institution telephony module may generate an alert to caller on mobile device and ask them to confirm the call. If caller confirms such as by entering a username password biometric information or other identifying information telephony module may signal profile module to transmit the identifying information to authentication processor . In other embodiments profile module may automatically transmit the identifying information to authentication processor when telephony module detects a call being made by caller to financial institution .

Services module may be configured to present caller with one or more services options that caller can select for transmitting to financial institution along with the telephone call . The services options may allow the caller to specify the type of service or question s that the caller would like answered. For example the services options may include changing account information changing contact information bill payments ordering a new card lost stolen card ordering new checks or other options. Services module may present these options to the caller on one or more interactive screens on mobile device when caller has opened Caller authentication application . Services module may present these options to caller when caller dials the number for financial institution . Services module may receive the caller s selections and store them. Services module may transmit the services options to authentication processor and or call processor when caller makes a call to financial institution and or call center .

Once mobile device has initiated telephone call to financial services and or call center the call information may be received by call processor . The call information may include the number for mobile device . Call processor may compare the call information to the profiles stored in profile database . If call processor matches the calling number with a number associated with one of the profiles in profile database call processor may retrieve the profile information and for example temporarily store it. In various embodiments the profile information may be temporarily stored in a queue or stack. Call processor may wait for authentication processor to receive identifying information from mobile device as will be described below. If authentication processor does not receive the correct identifying information within for example a predetermined amount of time call processor may delete the profile from the queue or stack and automatically route telephone call to the path for unauthenticated calls . Unauthenticated calls may be routed to a customer service representative or automated system that will verbally request identifying information from caller such as through a voice response unit VRU . Caller must then provide identifying information to the customer service representative or automated system before receiving further assistance.

When mobile device initiates a telephone call to financial institution and or call center either using Caller authentication application or detected by Caller authentication application profile module may simultaneously transmits at least some of the identifying information to authentication processor via data transfer . In various embodiments the identifying information may be transmitted as one or more secure tokens. The identifying information may be encrypted. Also user interface module may require the caller to enter a username and or password or PIN for example before profile module transmits the identifying information along with the call.

When authentication processor receives the identifying information it may compare the received information with the profiles stored in profile database . As stated above if the caller has previously registered identifying information with financial institution that identifying information would be stored in the caller s profile in profile database . When authentication processor later receives identifying information as part of the caller placing a call to financial institution authentication processor will compare the received identifying information with the one or more profiles temporarily stored by call processor . The received identifying information may include one or more of the caller s account number SSN username password email address phone number physical address biometric information and other information that uniquely identifies the caller. If at least some of the received identifying information matches the information in one of the one or more profiles that was retrieved by call processor call processor may route the telephone call received from mobile device to the path for authenticated calls . Authenticated calls are routed to customer service representative or automated systems at call center that will not request identifying information directly from the caller .

For example if mobile device has the number 925 123 4567 and places a call to financial institution call processor will receive the call information and compare the number 925 123 4567 with the numbers in each profile in profile database . If it finds a match call processor will retrieve the matching profile and temporarily hold it for example in a queue for a set period of time. The set period of time may be preprogrammed into the call processor . It may be for example 10 seconds 15 seconds 30 seconds or some other predetermined amount of time. During this period of time authentication processor may receive identifying information via for example data transfer from the mobile device having the number 925 123 4567. Authentication processor may compare the received identifying information with the profile or profiles stored in the queue with call processor . If at least some of the identifying information matches the profile associated with the number 925 123 4567 at call processor call processor may determine that the call from 925 123 4567 is authenticated and will connect the call to the path for authenticated calls . In this way the call from 925 123 4567 can automatically bypass the path for unauthenticated calls and the caller does not have to go through the extra steps of providing identifying information to an automated system or customer services representative.

In an example embodiment the mobile device may transmit the services information along with the identifying information to authentication processor . If the identifying information is matched to a profile as described above the call processor may use the services information to connect the call from the mobile device to the correct customer services representative in the path for authenticated calls . For example if the services information indicates that the caller has lost his card call processor may receive this information and connect and or the call to the correct department within call center or financial institution that can address this specific issue.

At block caller may register identifying information. In one example caller A may have a credit card account with Bank X. Caller A also may register identifying information with Bank X on a website provided by Bank X. Caller A may use an Caller authentication application on a mobile device e.g. iPhone to register his identifying information. The identifying information may for example include Caller A s name username password account number social security number email address phone number for the iPhone street address work address biometric information or other information that personally identifies caller A. The Caller authentication application on the iPhone may store the identifying information on the iPhone as a secure file and or in a UICC or secure element. The financial institution may create a profile for caller A and store the identifying information with that profile in a database associated with caller A s phone number for his iPhone. Method may proceed to block .

At block caller A may open the Caller authentication application on his iPhone. The Caller authentication application may present a login screen and require caller A to input a username and or password. The Caller authentication application may require caller A to input for example biometric information such as a voice sample or a fingerprint. If caller A supplies the correct information method may proceed to block . If caller A does not supply the correct information the Caller authentication application may provide one or more notifications to caller A and request reentry the correct information. The Caller authentication application login screen may allow caller A to contact financial institution to request a new username and or password.

At block caller A may initiate a call to Bank X. The call may be a wireless telephone call for example. The call also may be a VoIP call. The call may be over a landline. Caller A may use the Caller authentication application on the iPhone to dial the number for customer service at Bank X. Caller A may use the default phone interface on his iPhone and dial the number for Bank X and the Caller authentication application on his iPhone may automatically detect this action. The call may be routed to Bank X through one or more networks as explained above.

In an example embodiment when caller A dials the number for Bank X the Caller authentication application may prompt the caller to select one or more service options. Each service option may indicate a reason for the call. In this example Caller A may have previously lost his credit card and may select a lost card service option on the touchscreen for his iPhone.

At block the Caller authentication application may transmit identifying information to financial institution at or near the time when the call is initiated at block . The identifying information may have been previously stored on caller A s iPhone as described in block . The identifying information may have been previously registered with Bank X as described in block . The identifying information may include the caller s account number social security number phone number email addresses physical address full name birthdate biometric information username password or other information that uniquely identifies caller A. The Caller authentication application may also transmit the services information that caller A selected at block . In one embodiment the Caller authentication application may require caller A to enter his username and or password before transmitting the identifying information.

At block the Bank X may receive the call information. Call information may be received by call processor . Call information may indicate that caller A is trying to contact Bank X in order to speak with customer services. Call information may include the phone number for caller A s iPhone.

At block call processor may retrieve profile information for caller A using the phone number from the call information. Profile information may be stored in profile database . Call processor may match the calling number with caller A s profile. Call processor may store caller A s profile in a queue for a predetermined amount of time. The predetermined amount of time may be 30 seconds.

At block authentication processor may receive the caller A s identifying information. The identifying information may be received over a network as encrypted data. Authentication processor may decrypt the identifying information. The identifying information may be transmitted via for example a data transfer.

At block authentication processor may compare the received identifying information with the profile or profiles temporarily stored with call processor . The received identifying information may include an account number that matches with the account number in caller A s profile that was retrieved by call processor in step . The received identifying information may include for example a social security number that matches the social security number in caller A s profile. The received identifying information may include a voice sample that matches with a voice sample in caller A s profile. If one or more pieces of the identifying information received in step match with one or more pieces of the profile retrieved in step method proceeds to block . Otherwise method proceeds to block . Also if authentication processor does not receive identifying information within a predetermined time after call processor receives the call information method may proceed to block .

At block the call from caller A s iPhone may be routed to an authenticated call path. The call may be routed to a customer services representative or automated system that does not request any additional identifying information from caller A. The call from caller A also may be routed to specific customer services representative or automated system that responds to issues dealing with lost cards based on the services information provided by caller A.

If there is no match of identifying information at block the call from caller A s iPhone may be routed to an unauthenticated call path. The call may be routed to a customer services representative or automated system that will request additional identifying information from caller A. This also may occur if authentication processor never received identifying information from caller A s iPhone within the predetermined time after call processor received the call information.

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one of more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers processors etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components bay be combined or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

