---

title: Encapsulated thermoacoustic projector based on freestanding carbon nanotube film
abstract: A suspended nanotube film (or films) producing sound by means of the thermoacoustic (TA) effect is encapsulated between two plates, at least one of which vibrates, to enhance sound generation efficiency and protect the film. To avoid the oxidation of carbon nanotubes at elevated temperatures and reduce the thermal inertia of surrounding medium the enclosure is filled with inert gas (preferably with high heat capacity ratio, γ=C/C, and low heat capacity, C). To generate sound directly as the first harmonic of applied audio signal without use of an energy consuming dc biasing, an audio signal modulated carrier frequency at much higher frequency is used to provide power input. Various other inventive means are described to provide enhanced projected sound intensity, increased projector efficiency, and lengthened projector life, like the use of infrared reflecting coatings and particles on the projector plates, non-parallel sheet alignment in sheet stacks, and cooling means on one projector side.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635468&OS=09635468&RS=09635468
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09635468
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application is the 35 U.S.C. 371 national application of International Patent Application No. PCT US14 27341 entitled Encapsulated Thermoacoustic Projector Based On Free Standing Carbon Nanotube Film filed on Mar. 14 2014 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Appl. Ser. No. 61 791 381 filed on Mar. 15 2013 entitled Encapsulated Themoacoustic Projector Based On Free Standing Carbon Nanotube Film which patent application is commonly owned by the owner of the present invention. This patent application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. N00014 08 1 0654 awarded by the Office of Naval Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to acoustic devices and method for generating sound waves and more specifically to an encapsulated carbon nanotube based thermoacoustic device and method for generating sound waves using the thermoacoustic effect. Encapsulation of carbon nanotube CNT film in inert gases protects the nanoscaled CNT film from harsh environment and allows application of temperatures up to 2000 K and Q times increases in the sound pressure where Q is the resonance quality factor of the encapsulating vibrating plates.

Acoustic devices generally include a signal device and a sound transducer. The signal device produces an electrical or pressure modulated input signals corresponding to the sound signal and applies it to the sound transducer. The electro dynamic loudspeaker is an example of electro acoustic transducer that converts electrical signals into sound.

A thermoacoustic TA device converts the temperature modulation on the heater to pressure waves. The thermoacoustic effect is distinct from the mechanism of the conventional loudspeaker which the pressure waves are created by the mechanical movement of the diaphragm. When signals applied to the TA element heating is produced in the TA element according to the variations of the signal and or signal strength. Heat is propagated into surrounding medium. The heating of the medium causes thermal expansion and produces pressure waves in the surrounding medium resulting in sound wave generation. Such an acoustic effect induced by temperature waves is commonly called the thermoacoustic effect. 

There are different types of electro acoustic loudspeakers that can be categorized by their working principles such as electro dynamic loudspeakers electromagnetic loudspeakers electrostatic loudspeakers and piezoelectric loudspeakers. However the various types ultimately use mechanical vibration to produce sound waves in other words they all achieve electro mechanical acoustic conversion. Among the various types the electro dynamic loudspeakers are most widely used.

There have been several attempts to utilize thin nanoscaled films for thermoacoustic sound generation. A thermophone based on the thermoacoustic effect was created by H. D. Arnold and I. B. Crandall H. D. Arnold and I. B. Crandall The thermophone as a precision source of sound 10 22 38 1917 . They used a platinum strip with a thickness of 700 nm as a TA element. However the thermophone adopting the platinum strip listened to the open air sounds extremely weak because the high thermal inertia of the platinum strip.

The following provide examples of these types of TA devices based on CNTs and photo lithographically patterned nanowire arrays. Wide frequency response range and relatively high sound pressure level was demonstrated using free standing CNT thin film loudspeakers L. Xiao et al. Flexible stretchable transparent carbon nanotube thin film loudspeakers 8 4539 4545 2008 L. Xiao et al. High frequency response of carbon nanotube thin film speaker in gases 110 084311 2011 K. Suzuki et al. Study of carbon nanotube web thermoacoustic loudspeakers 50 01BJ10 2011 M. E. Kozlov et al. Sound of carbon nanotube assemblies 106 124311 2009 A. E. Aliev et al. Underwater sound generation using carbon nanotube projectors 10 2374 80 2010 and micro fabricated arrays of nanowires A. O. Niskanen et al. Suspended metal wire array as a thermoacoustic sound source 95 163102 2009 V. Vesterinen et al. Fundamental efficiency of nanothermophones modeling and experiments 10 5020 24 2010 . In another work thin metallic foil deposited on porous silicon pillars has been used for thermoacoustic sound generation H. Shinoda et al. Thermally induced ultrasonic emission from porous silicon 400 853 1999 .

Major limitations exist for the above described open type TA devices. These limitations include low applicable temperatures sensitivity of nanoscale heaters to the environment and low sound generation efficiency in the low frequency region where the demand for large size and flexible sound projectors is high.

Accordingly there is a high need to provide an effective TA device working in harsh environment conditions in air and underwater in the low frequency range.

The present invention relates to an encapsulated thermoacoustic projector based on free standing carbon nanotube film. A thermoacoustic projector can also be referred to as a thermoacoustic sound projector or a thermoacoustic sound transducer . The suspended carbon nanotube CNT film or films producing sound by means of the thermoacoustic TA effect is encapsulated between two vibrating membranes also are called plates to enhance the sound generation efficiency and protect the film. To avoid the oxidation of carbon nanotubes at elevated temperatures and reduce the thermal inertia of surrounding medium the enclosure is filled with inert gas preferably with high heat capacity ratio C C and low heat capacity C . To generate sound directly at the first harmonic of sound signal frequencies without energy consuming dc biasing the inventors apply a sinusoidal carrier current or voltage at a frequency much higher than the needed sound output of the sound projector and modulate the amplitude of the carrier current or voltage by using the sound signal frequencies.

In general in one aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotube film structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing.

The planar nanotube structure can be a planar carbon nanotube structure i.e. the planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films and combinations thereof .

The two vibrating plates can be symmetric or asymmetric. One plate can be so rigid to be essentially non vibrating.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar carbon nanotubes structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The one or more nanotube films of the thermoacoustic sound projector include a thin homogeneous carbon nanotube structure a boron nitride nanotube film structure and combinations thereof. The nanotube structure can be a number of superimposed nanotube layers.

The number of superimposed carbon nanotube layers can be operable to increase the carbon nanotube gas medium interaction and overall sound generation pressure.

The number of superimposed carbon nanotube layers can be much greater than five when high sound generation efficiency is not needed.

The number of superimposed carbon nanotube layers can be less than five when high efficiency of sound generation is needed.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotube structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. In some embodiments the planar nanotube structure has a positive coefficient of resistivity.

The planar nanotube structure can have a positive coefficient of resistivity such to avoid the current redistribution in the planar nanotube structure to large bundles of nanotubes having lower sound generation efficiency.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these two electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar carbon nanotubes structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a framing element with two opposite conductive electrodes parallel to each other. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes aligned nanotube sheets attached to the frame in orthogonal directions.

The orthogonal direction of the nanotube sheets corresponding to a 90 bias angle can be operable to avoid mechanical vibrations on the edges of nanotube sheets and for large bundles of nanotubes which can be caused by static potential and Lorentz forces. The aligned nanotube sheets can optionally be aligned in a plurality of directions such as with bias angle of 60 or 60 between neighboring sheets.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotube structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The planar nanotubes structure and vibrating plates in their flat states are separated by a spacing that is larger than the thermal diffusion length of the filled gas medium for a predetermined sound frequency range of the thermoacoustic apparatus. The spacing between the planar carbon nanotubes structure and vibrating plates is small enough to provide high conversion efficiency which is proportional to the reciprocal to the enclosure volume 1 V but large enough in the free standing sheet regime that the TA sheets do not make contact with the vibrating plates.

The distance between the planar nanotube structure and the vibrating plates can be as close as possible without touching.

The gas medium can be an inert gas that provides temperature modulation on the surface of the planar carbon nanotubes structure to at least 2000 K.

The spacing can have a minimum distance operable to avoid heat dissipation through contact between the planar carbon nanotubes structure and the vibrating plate or plates of the encapsulated housing.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotubes structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes adhesive elastic ribbon that has sealed the encapsulated housing circumferentially. The adhesive elastic ribbon has a thickness that is larger than the vibrating amplitude of the vibrating plates.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotubes structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The one or both plates include a material that can reflect the infrared radiation emitted by hot nanotubes or a material that includes dielectric ceramic plates that are coated with an infrared radiation reflective metallic film.

The infrared radiation reflective metallic film can include a film of Ni Al Cu or a combination thereof.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotube structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The inner sides of the vibrating plates are coated with small oxide particles operable for preventing the sticking of the planar nanotube structure to the vibrating plate while being bended pushed or twisted.

The small oxide particles can be smaller than the spacing between the planar nanotube structure and the vibrating plates.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotube structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The sealed enclosure includes two rigid flat plates that can withstand temperatures of at least 1000 C. and that have a Young modulus and density chosen to provide a desired frequency fand high resonance quality factor Q.

The encapsulated thermoacoustic sound projector can be operable for generating Q times higher sound pressure level at the resonance frequency than the same planar nanotube structure in an open housing.

The two rigid flat plates the vibrating plates can be made of metal high density material ceramic middle density material glass or polymer low density material or a combination thereof.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotube structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The gas medium has a high heat capacity ratio C C of at least 1.5 and a heat capacity C of no more than about 200 J kg K .

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotubes structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The electrical connection between the planar nanotube structure and conductive electrodes is by direct attachment of the planar nanotube structure to the surface of the electrodes with subsequent densification of the portion of the planar nanotube structure that overlaps the electrodes.

The densified portion of the planar nanotube structure can be formed by using volatile liquids for wetting and drying the portion of the planar nanotube structure.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotubes structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The thermoacoustic apparatus further includes a modulator and a dynamic carrier control DCC circuit for dynamically controlling the power supplied to the projector based on parameters of the input signal. When the carrier signal includes a low range of parameters the DCC circuit is operable for reducing the power to the modulator in proportion to the amount of modulation required to modulate the range of parameters to produce the desired sound signal. When there is no sound signal the power supplied to the modulator is operable for turning off until the recognition of another sound signal.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotube structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The thermoacoustic apparatus further includes a modulator and a dynamic carrier control DCC circuit for dynamically controlling the power supplied to the modulator based on parameters of the input carrier signal. The power supplied to the modulator is in direct proportion to a range of parameters in order to produce or maintain the desired sound signal.

The DCC circuit can be operable for analyzing the current associated with the input acoustic signal and can adjust the carrier signal modulator in a proportion required to produce the desired sound signal. The input acoustic signal dictates the parameters of the carrier signal that is input to the thermo acoustic projector.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that includes a signal conditioning device and thermoacoustic sound projector. The thermoacoustic sound projector includes a planar nanotube structure. The planar nanotube structure includes one or more nanotube films selected from the group consisting of single walled carbon nanotube films few walled carbon nanotube films multi walled carbon nanotube films boron nitride nanotube films and combinations thereof. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes at least two electrodes. The planar nanotube structure is suspended between two of these electrodes. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes an encapsulated housing also known as an encapsulated enclosure that encloses the planar nanotubes structure. The encapsulated housing includes two relatively flat plates with at least one plate being capable of vibrating. The thermoacoustic sound projector further includes a gas medium that is contained within the encapsulated housing. The signal conditioning device is operable for powering the thermoacoustic sound projector. The input power that drives the thermoacoustic modulator is a high frequency carrier signal whose amplitude is modulated by the input audio sound signal to provide the desired output sound from the thermoacoustic projector.

The signal conditioning device a dynamic carrier control DCC can be operable to reduce energy consumption by providing a carrier wave having a frequency that is high compared with that of the audio frequencies that are sought from the thermo acoustic sound projector wherein the signal conditioning device varies the amplitude of the carrier wave current in response to an input audio signal so that the output of the signal conditioning device heats the TA projector film in a manner to result is projected sound that replicates the input acoustic signal.

The signal conditioning can operate to provide 100 modulation of the carrier wave current and to provide no carrier current when the audio input signal is negligible small.

The frequency of the carrier signal can be at least one order of magnitude higher than the frequencies of the sound spectrum of the thermoacoustic apparatus.

The frequency of the carrier signal can be at least one order of magnitude higher than the resonance frequency of the vibrating plates f.

The frequency of the carrier signal can be selected from the region of the highest sound pressure level of the sound generated by an open housing.

In general in another aspect the invention features a thermoacoustic apparatus that is a combination of two or more of the embodiments above or a thermoacoustic apparatus of one or more of the above having features from other embodiments.

In general in another aspect the invention features the thermoacoustic sound projector portion of the embodiments of the above thermoacoustic apparatus.

In general in another aspect invention features a method of operating one or more of the thermoacoustic apparatuses and or thermoacoustic sound projector portions of the above embodiments.

In general in another aspect invention features a manufacturing one or more of the thermoacoustic apparatuses and or thermoacoustic sound projector portions of the above embodiments.

The present invention is directed to the enhancement of the efficiency of TA sound projector and to protect the nanoscale heater from the harsh environment. The encapsulation of free standing carbon nanotube CNT film in inert gases between two flat membranes or rigid plates affords both device protection and the enhancement of low frequency sound generation. The typical structure of an encapsulated TA device according to an embodiment which is depicted in has two conductive electrodes attached to opposite edges of vibrating plate through the elastic silicon rubber . The thin CNT sheet or plurality of CNT sheets superimposed to each other suspended between two plates is connected to electrodes . The interior of thereby assembled encapsulated device is filled with inert gas preferably with low heat capacity G.

Since the TA loudspeaker acts as a heat engine the maximum energy conversion efficiency according to Carrot s theorem cannot exceed 1 T T where Tis the absolute temperature of the cold reservoir and Tis the absolute temperature of the hot reservoir i.e. the temperature modulation amplitude. The CNT film exposed to air starts to burn at T 600 C. while in inert gases the temperature of CNT can reach 2000 K. Since the efficiency of a TA device linearly increases with the increase of applied power i.e. increase of temperature modulation amplitude this enables a higher efficiency for TA devices filled with inert gases. The experimental data for sound pressure measured in four inert gases He N Ar and Xe using boundary conditions of open system shown in versus 1 Cis in good agreement with the theoretical prediction. The TA sound pressure generated in xenon gas is 5 times higher than in air.

Despite the attractive wide frequency sound generation spectra of the open TA system for audio applications the energy conversion efficiency is extremely low at low frequencies. Unlike an open device the encapsulated device has higher efficiency at low frequencies. shows the sound pressure generated by single layer MWNT sheet as a function of frequency for open and closed systems lines and respectively . The three order higher pressure variation in the low frequency limit comparing to the open system explicitly indicates the advantage of encapsulated TA devices for operation in the low frequency domain.

In a small enclosure where the distance between the thermal source and walls is much smaller than the acoustic wave length and larger than the thermal diffusion length the sound pressure SP produced by a TA projector is directly related to the ideal gas law P nR V T where the number of moles of gas n and the volume V in the closed hermetic chamber are held constant R is the ideal gas constant . This thermal diffusion length is l f where is the thermal diffusivity of the gas and f is the sound frequency in the gas for example l 0.12 mm for f 1 kHz in air . Because of the ideal gas law in such a closed system with rigid walls the generated dynamic pressure pis reciprocal to the volume of the enclosure V.

While the open TA system provides smooth spectra with sound pressure proportional to the frequency the encapsulated device with stiff flat plates is resonant. For the flat encapsulated TA projector the pressure modulation generated in a closed system now is an internal driven force for the vibrating plates. At frequency of modulated temperature close to the mechanical resonance of the plates the output sound pressure produced by vibrating plate p r driven by internal force source pis Q time larger where Q f f is the resonant quality factor of vibrating plate. Hence the sound pressure generated by encapsulated TA projector adopts all features of closed system pressure superimposed on the resonant feature of vibrating plates. The overall enhancement of generated SP for TA projector shown in is G p p 15 which is consistent with the resonant quality factor Q f f 17.8. Here f is the width of the resonance peak at the pressure level of 1 2.

To generate sound directly on the first harmonic of applied ac power f without dc biasing it is believed the frequency of the sinusoidal carrier current in an encapsulated device should be kept close to the maximum of the spectra of the non enclosed CNT film f 50 60 kHz and the carrier current should be modulated by the resonant envelope at f. The elastically clamped plates will respond only to the low frequency current envelope with peak amplitude at f while the high frequency temperature modulation will create the pressure background with the efficiency of a non biased system.

In the embodiment shown in the TA projector includes two 7.5 7.5 cm aluminum nitrate AlN ceramic plates with the thickness selected for desired resonance frequency of the sound projector. The 5 mm wide and 0.15 mm thick strips of one side printing circuit board PCB strips and were attached to the two parallel edges of both plates using silicon paste Multi Purpose sealant Dow Corning Corp. . To create a sealed cavity two other orthogonal edges were also covered with the same strips attached facedown. The free standing multiwall carbon nanotube MWNT sheet withdrawn from the CVD grown forest was attached to the assembly between two copper electrodes as shown on the left plate in .

To improve the MWNT copper electrical connection the MWNT sheet contacting the surface of copper foil was densified using methanol wetting and following drying or the corresponding use for densification of other wetting liquids like ethanol acetone acetonitrile etc. . Two ceramic plates with attached electrodes and free standing MWTN sheet or multiple sheets on one of them were assembled in an argon glove box under ambient pressure. See . A thin layer of silicon paste 0.2 mm was spread over the perimeter of both plates covering only 3 mm outer edges of the rectangular frame. This eliminates contact of the projector sheet with the paste when the two sides of the projector are assembled face to face and softly pressed together using suitable clips. The rigid ceramic plates evenly distribute the clamping force of the clips pressing the rectangular frames against each other. The silicon paste transforms into an elastic rubber in 4 hours in air at room temperature.

Restricted heat dissipation from the interior of the small volume enclosure is a main obstacle limiting the efficiency and power output of the TA projector. To reduce overheating of the encapsulated gas the bottom plate shown in another embodiment of the present invention in was substituted by the heat sink. For example the thin thermoacoustic heater includes three superimposed MWNT sheets with a total resistance 338 that were encapsulated in argon gas between a mica plate 5 5 0.015 cm on the top and the blackened aluminum heat sink radiator on the bottom. The edges of the assembly were sealed with silicon paste. The improved heat dissipation allows the application of up to 5.5 W 0.2 W cm in air and 11 W underwater 0.44 W cm to this particular device without visible saturation of generated pressure waves. The resonance frequency f 1696 Hz in air with Q 50 shifted underwater toward f 351 Hz with much lower quality factor Q 6. The obtained power level of 130 dB re 20 Pa in air and 200 dB re 1 Pa underwater in the near field r 5 cm and 100 dB and 170 dB at the distance of 1 m respectively with the average temperature of encapsulated gas of 50 C. is promising for wide range of applications. The enhanced heat dissipation and use of light weight mica plates have increased the energy conversion efficiency to 0.3 in air and to 1.5 underwater. Further increase of the sound intensity caused delamination of the layered mica plate structure.

The high voltage and current applied to narrow CNT strips or large bundles create lateral mechanical vibrations on the sheet edges and deteriorate the performance of TA devices Aliev et al. 323 1575 2009 . To avoid this problem in other embodiments of the present invention the carbon nanotube film have structures that eliminate this problem for example highly aligned MWNT sheets arranged in orthogonal direction as shown schematically in . Referring to the carbon nanotube structure includes a plurality of carbon nanotube sheets arranged along a preferred orientation and connected to the conductive electrodes as well as some carbon nanotube sheets that are arranged perpendicular to the first sheets and attached to nonconductive electrodes . The perpendicular aligned sheets reinforce the main sheets via van der Waals inter sheet attractive forces and thereby reduce the lateral vibration of the whole carbon nanotube sheet structure that is caused by static potential and Lorenz forces.

In other embodiments of the present invention the CNT structure can include at least one CNT film or a plurality of CNT films attached to conductive electrodes and having the comb structure shown in . The number of comb legs in each electrode determines the overall impedance of the TA device.

In another embodiment one or more of the projector plates are coated with a metallic reflecting film to return part of the irradiated black body back to the carbon nanotube sheet. To obtain higher sound pressure and higher projector efficiency the temperature modulation amplitude should be increased by increasing applied power P. However MWNT sheets are near perfect black body emitters which reduces TA projector performance at high temperatures. The black body radiation of the MWNT sheet does not contribute to the convective heating of the surrounding gas the major contributor of heat transfer in TA transduction. To eliminate the loss of power an infrared IR reflective metallic coating is deposited on at least one of the projector plates. Line of shows that coating both projector plates with an IR reflecting coating a 100 nm thick Ni film on 2.3 mm thick quartz glass plate provides a thermo acoustic projector whose sound pressure level linearly increases with input power output up to 50 W. The same device without IR coated plates shows per line of a decline from the linear dependence of Pon applied power when this power is above 30 W where the averaged sheet temperature Texceeds 110 C. T 2T T 195 C. .

In another embodiment of the present invention the inner side of thin transparent vibrating plates are covered with small insulating particles as shown in the schematic diagram of . The purpose of these particles is to prevent the sticking of free standing CNT film to vibrating membranes during bending pushing twisting or rolling the TA device. The small particles can be deposited by spray gun using an aqueous polyvinyl alcohol suspension.

Another application of this transparent flexible TA loudspeaker is on the front panel of displays with touch screen function. The size of insulating particles can be chosen from the conditions for optimizing the spacing between the MWNT sheet and vibrating plates when taking into account the thermal diffusion length of the filling gas. The selected 10 20 m spheres are optimal for argon and xenon filing gases. The material of particles includes but is not limited to inorganic oxide spheres like SiO TiO polymer spheres like Latex or others.

Since the thermoacoustic loudspeaker acts as a heat engine the maximum energy conversion efficiency i.e. the Carnot efficiency relates to the ratio of cold reservoir and hot heater temperatures T and T respectively. To increase the sound output of the thermoacoustic projector in some embodiments of the present invention the thermoelectric effect is employed to manage the temperatures of hot heater source and cold sink. The efficiency of the TA projector approximately increases linearly with applied power Pfor low or moderate applied power where the applied electrical power increases the Tof the CNT heater and increases in Tare relatively small. However at high applied power the ability of the encapsulated device to dissipate the created heat energy becomes insufficient and the generated acoustical power starts to saturate and even decrease because of a large increase in T. In such high power case a thermoelectric cooler can be deployed to decrease Tand thereby increase sound output. In an embodiment shown schematically in a Peltier thermoelectric cooler with cold plate faced towards the TA heater is inserted between the TA projector and a passive radiator type cooler of the embodiment shown in . When a dc current is applied to the thermoelectric module the cold plate helps maintain the low temperature background inside of the TA enclosure whereas the hot plate dissipates heat energy through the passive radiator . The dc current level can be adjusted and synchronized with averaged ac signal applied to the TA projector to achieve a low temperature inside the enclosure and a high efficiency of the TA projector relative to the input power used for heating the projector sheet .

In another embodiment of the present invention which is shown in alternating thermoelectric p and n elements and respectively are connected on top by suspended CNT sheet elements and by regular metallic interconnects on the opposite side. The direction of the applied voltage which can be applied between points and is preferably chosen at all times to simultaneously generate heat on the CNT sheet interconnects and cool down the opposite electrodes hence increasing the temperature gradient between the CNT sheet and the adjacent device face. shows the case where a positive voltage defined as one that heats the nanotube sheets via the thermoelectric effect relative to the cooled underlying substrate is obtained by superimposing a larger dc voltage on an arbitrary form ac voltage used to produce sound U U. Curve reflects the ac signal combined with the dc biasing. Maintaining a positive voltage at all times enables sound generation at the same frequency as the excitation ac signal thereby avoiding a component of sound production at twice this frequency .

In another embodiment of the present invention as shown in p doped and n doped CNT sheets are alternatively connected with each other to provide thermoelectric p n junctions by overlapping on tall typically about 0.1 0.2 mm high electrode pillars hot ends and at connections on the substrate. The optionally multilayered CNT sheet strips of each type n and p are optionally superimposed on each other under small angle approximately 3 5 to the nanotube alignment direction to enhance electrical conductivity in the perpendicular direction. A dc current or ac current biased with dc component flowing perpendicular to the strips directions which can be applied between points and can be used to heat the suspended parts and cool down interconnects pressed to the back plate. The back plate will help maintain the low temperature background of a usefully provided enclosure gas whereas the suspended part of the CNT sheet will create a temperature gradient that alternates at the sound frequency.

Among the thermoelectric films most suitable for low power near room temperature applications are the complementary BiTe n type and SbTe p type pair. For high power high temperature applications PbTe SiGe and their compounds are more suitable.

Additional information of the present invention is included in A. E. Aliev et al. Increasing The Efficiency Of Thermoacoustic Carbon Nanotube Sound Projectors 2013 24 23 235501 which paper is incorporated into this Application in its entirety.

The examples provided herein and in Attachment A are to more fully illustrate some of the embodiments of the present invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the Applicant to function well in the practice of the invention and thus can be considered to constitute exemplary modes for its practice. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments that are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

While embodiments of the invention have been shown and described modifications thereof can be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and teachings of the invention. The embodiments described and the examples provided herein are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. Many variations and modifications of the invention disclosed herein are possible and are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. The scope of protection is not limited by the description set out above.

The disclosures of all patents patent applications and publications cited herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to those set forth herein.

