---

title: Power management method for handheld mobile electronic device and handheld mobile electronic device using the same
abstract: The present disclosure proposes a power management method for use by a handheld mobile electronic device having a display and a device using the same. The method may include when the display darkens as the result of not receiving input signal after a first predetermined period, the screen brightness would be restored back to the original brightness in response to receiving a sensor output generated by a specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device. Otherwise, when the touch screen darkens as the result of activating a key of the handheld mobile electronic device, the display will not respond to sensor output generated by the specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298301&OS=09298301&RS=09298301
owner: HTC Corporation
number: 09298301
owner_city: Taoyuan
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140422
---
The present disclosure directs to a power management method for a handheld mobile electronic device and a handheld mobile electronic device using the same method.

Currently a handheld mobile electronic device such as a smart phone has become versatile portable and increasingly powerful and thus the smart phone could be considered as one of the most preeminent derivatives of the most recent technological development. Since data processing personal organizing multimedia applications and telephone functions could all be integrated into the handheld mobile electronic device a portable pocket sized computer a handheld mobile electronic device such as a smart phone has become more and more like a portable pocket sized computer and a prevailing personal organizer. Furthermore technological advancements of a handheld mobile electronic device will undoubtedly continue to progress as more and more functions and features which were not traditionally a part of a smart phone would be incorporated as native functions and features of the device.

As handheld mobile electronic devices have become increasingly versatile power consumption may in turn be less efficient since having more functions and features could means that a device may require more power in order to support these functions and features. Therefore when a handheld mobile electronic device is not in use by a user the device would normally turn off certain functions and features automatically in order to reduce unnecessary power drain on the battery of the device. For instance unlike a desktop computer which is configured to activate a screen saver when it sits idle for a certain period of time the handheld mobile electronic device would darken its touch screen and eventually turn off the screen for the purpose of preventing unnecessary power drain and would subsequently activate a screen lock feature either before or after the touch screen is turned off in order to prevent inadvertent user inputs on the touch screen. A user may also activate a power button to manually turn on and off the touch screen manually.

However as more and more functions and features which were not traditionally a part of a smart phone were incorporated into the smart phone the handling of the power saving mode and the screen lock feature in conventional smart phones has become increasing inadequate. Referring back to as an example suppose that a user chooses to watch a movie using one s smart phone which is without any added complexity with regard to its power saving and screen lock features the touch screen may keep turning off and requiring its user to keep turning on the screen after every short period of time. To make matters worse suppose that a user wants to turn the touch screen back on to the watch the movie the user would not only need to push the power button to turn the touch screen back on but also the user would need to deal with the lock screen by performing a set of specific hand gestures. Even though the screen lock was intended to safeguard the touch screen from inadvertent touches under this particular circumstance the screen lock would seem completely unnecessary. Furthermore suppose that the user has enacted a password to safeguard the device from unauthorized uses the user would also need to enter the password before one could gain access to the main user interface of the home screen of one s device. All of these power saving and safeguarding sequences is not only unnecessary during some circumstances but is also quite tedious and inconvenient for its user.

Therefore the present disclosure proposes a power management method which would achieve similar degrees of power saving and touch screen safeguarding but would minimize hindrances for uninterrupted uses.

Accordingly the present disclosure proposes a power management method to be used by a handheld mobile electronic device and a handheld mobile electronic device using the same method.

Specifically the steps of the proposed method would include at least but not limited to adjusting the touch screen of the handheld mobile electronic device from a first brightness to a second brightness which is less than the first brightness in response to no touch signal being received by the touch screen after a first predetermined period. The second brightness of the touch screen would eventually be restored back to the first brightness in response to receiving a sensor output which would be generated by a specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device. The touch screen could be adjusted to a second brightness in response to activating a first key of the handheld mobile electronic device. While in the second brightness the touch screen would be kept in the second brightness even in response to the specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device as no sensor output would be received to restore the touch screen from the second brightness back to the first brightness. In that case the first touch screen brightness would be restored in response to activating the first key of the handheld mobile electronic device.

In one of the exemplary embodiments the handheld mobile electronic device would include a proximity sensor which would be activated to detect a nearby object in response to no touch signal being received by the touch screen after a second predetermined period. The second predetermined period would be slightly less than the first predetermined period. In response to the nearby object being detected and no touch signal being received by the touch screen after the first predetermined period the touch screen would be adjusted to the second brightness. Also the touch screen would be kept at the second brightness until the first key of the handheld mobile electronic device is activated.

In one of the exemplary embodiments before the touch screen is darkened from the first brightness to the second brightness in response to no touch signal being received by the touch screen after the first predetermined period a particular application would have already been activated and the application would provide a user interface through the touch screen. Also the aforementioned sensor could be a G sensor and would be registered to this application.

In one of the exemplary embodiments restoring the touch screen from the second brightness back to the first brightness would involve restoring on the touch screen the user interface of the application which was displayed before the screen was darkened because of expiration of the first predetermined period. Also the restoring of the user interface would be accomplished without going through a screen lock deactivating procedure.

In one of the exemplary embodiments the touch screen could be adjusted from the second brightness back to the first brightness in response to the application receiving a trigger signal from the G sensor wherein the trigger signal could be an interrupt generated by the G sensor in response to detecting the specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device.

In one of the exemplary embodiments when the sensor output is trigger by the specific movement the profile of the specific movement would include a slight variation toward any direction in the horizontal plane but the specific movement would not involve any vertical vector component which would be ignored by the G sensor.

In one of the exemplary embodiments during a telephone conversation the sensor output would be triggered by the specific movement to restore touch screen brightness and the specific movement would include a non zero vertical vector component but the G Gensor would ignore vector components toward any direction in the horizontal plane.

In one of the exemplary embodiments the first key is the same power key which is used to turn on or off the handheld mobile electronic device. When the first key is used to turn off the handheld mobile electronic device said G sensor which was previously registered to said application would be dissociated with the application.

In one of the exemplary embodiments wherein the first predetermined period is less than 40 seconds and second predetermined period is less than 38 seconds.

In one of the exemplary embodiments the handheld mobile electronic device would possess an infrared modulator and an infrared transmitter and could be configured as a remote control to transmit a modulated infrared signal to control a target device.

The present disclosure also proposes a handheld mobile electronic device which includes at least but not limited to a first key a sensor for generating an output in response to specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device a touch screen for receiving a touch signal a processor electrically coupled to the first key the sensor and the touch screen and the processor would be configured for executing the aforementioned method including adjusting the touch screen from a first brightness to a second brightness which is less than the first brightness in response to no touch signal being received by the touch screen after a first predetermined period restoring the touch screen from the second brightness back to the first brightness in response to receiving a sensor output generated by the specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device adjusting the touch screen to a second brightness in response to activating the first key of the handheld mobile electronic device keeping the touch screen in the second brightness regardless of any movement of the handheld mobile electronic device and restoring the touch screen from the second brightness back to the first brightness in response to activating the first key of the handheld mobile electronic device.

The present disclosure also includes a non transitory storage medium containing computer readable codes which could be read by a processor of a handheld mobile electronic device to execute functions including adjusting the touch screen from a first brightness to a second brightness which is less than the first brightness in response to no touch signal being received by the touch screen after a first predetermined period restoring the touch screen from the second brightness back to the first brightness in response to receiving a sensor output generated by the specific movement of the handheld mobile electronic device adjusting the touch screen to a second brightness in response to activating the first key of the handheld mobile electronic device keeping the touch screen in the second brightness regardless of any movement of the handheld mobile electronic device and restoring the touch screen from the second brightness back to the first brightness in response to activating the first key of the handheld mobile electronic device.

In order to make the aforementioned features and advantages of the present disclosure comprehensible preferred embodiments accompanied with figures are described in detail below. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and are intended to provide further explanation of the disclosure as claimed.

It should be understood however that this summary may not contain all of the aspect and embodiments of the present disclosure and is therefore not meant to be limiting or restrictive in any manner. Also the present disclosure would include improvements and modifications which are obvious to one skilled in the art.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present preferred embodiments of the disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the description to refer to the same or like parts.

The present disclosure proposes a power management method to be used by a handheld mobile electronic device. When a handheld mobile electronic device using the present disclosure lulls into a power saving mode the device would quickly be restore back to the full power mode and or the pristine state which is right before the device lulls into the power saving mode in direct response to a trigger signal generated by an onboard sensor which detects for a specific movement of the device. In other words with the assistance of the onboard sensor the device would not only come out of the power saving mode quickly but also would restore the user interface which was displayed on the touch screen before the device went into the power saving mode in the first place without going through the trouble of performing screen unlock gestures and entering passwords. Also by directly utilizing the onboard sensor s interrupt generated in response to specific movement power consumption could be drastically reduced. Furthermore power consumption could be reduced based on the steps to dissociate the onboard sensor from the application having said user interface during circumstances when receiving interrupts from the onboard sensor is no longer deemed necessary.

Before explaining in greater details please refer to the conceptual illustration of which explains concepts of the proposed power management method in accordance with one of the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. The exemplary scenario of assumes that the handheld mobile electronic device disposed with an infrared transmitter would be used just like a remote control to wirelessly control a target device such as a television from a distance. First a user may activate a remote control computer program which would a software application having a user interface used to control a remote control hardware disposed in one s device . By using the exemplary device a user may first select a representative icon in the home screen of one s device to activate the remote control application through the touch screen or a person may activate the remote control application through the menu list as the present disclosure is not limited by said activation method herein. Also it would apparent for one skilled in the art that the present disclosure could be applied to others applications besides the remote control application such as a phone application. Upon activating the remote application a remote control user interface would be displayed on the touch screen in order to receive input touch signals from the user for the purpose of controlling the remote device . However the user may also switch to other applications to perform other functions such as making a phone call.

Assuming that a user would stop using the device and subsequently places the device on a surface such as a coffee table in absence of any user input including touch input and or input generated as the result of activating any external hardware keys except for the power button the device would be considered to be idle by a processor of the device. After a predetermined period of idleness the device would eventually transition into a power saving mode which may involve one or more or a combination of darkening and or turning off of the touch screen deactivation of a user input deactivation of a software applications reduction or deactivation of a hardware activities and so forth. If the device transitions into the power saving mode because of idleness then on board sensor would be utilized to detect a specific movement of the device . When the device undergoes the specific movement while the device in the power saving mode then the device would revert back to the state right before the device transitions into the power saving mode i.e. the normal mode . In other words suppose that the specific movement involves picking up e.g. shaking the device and a user grabs the device and causes it to shake in a way that is similar to the predefined specific movement then the device would restore what was being displayed on the touch screen of the device just like the way it was before the device lulls into the power saving mode.

For example if a remote control interface was displayed before the device enters a power saving mode but after the device sits idle for a predetermined period the screen of the device would darken and eventually turn off. But then after the specific movement has been detected the device would transition to once again display the remote control interface before the device went into the power saving mode. Furthermore the remote control interface would be restore in such a way that a use would not have to perform gestures to unlock the screen or to perform a login processing by entering passwords as the restoration process would be automatic. The advantage of such is that suppose that the screen of the device being used as a remote control blacks out after the device sits idle for a predetermined period all the user needs to do is to pick up the device to be able to use the device as a remote control. Image just how tedious it would be if a user has to unlock the screen and enters a password every time the user wants to change the channel.

However if a user activates a specific key such as a power button before the device times out and enters the power saving mode the device would not come out of the power saving mode and subsequently revert back to the normal mode in response to the specific movement underwent by the device as activating the specific button e.g. the power button would signify an intention that the user would really want to turn off the normal mode of device . In that case no movement of the device would cause the on board sensor to transmit a trigger signal to cause the device to come out of the power saving mode. A user would need to activate the specific key once again to revert back to the normal mode. In that case the user would need to perform screen unlock gesture and or entering a password in order to gain access to the same user interface as before the device transitioned into the power saving mode. Also whenever the device times out and reverts back to the normal mode after experiencing a specific movement the activation of the specific key would transition the device into the power saving mode and in that case said onboard sensor of the device would not trigger the device to revert back to the normal mode.

In order to make the design more robust the present disclosure may use proximity detection to detect whether the device has been surrounded by an enclosure or by a partial enclosure. This could occur when the device has been put inside a pocket or a bag i.e. the device is in a pocket mode . When proximity detection has determined that the device has been placed inside an enclosure it would signify that a user would want to store the device away. In that case even when the device has been timed out without a user activating the specific key onboard sensor of the device would not trigger the device to revert back to the normal mode regardless of any movement experienced by the device since the onboard sensor would be disengaged from the application which governs whether to revert the device back to the normal mode or not.

The processor and controller circuit may include a micro controller a North Bridge a South Bridge a field programmable array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other similar device or a combination thereof. The processor and controller circuit may also include a central processing unit CPU or a programmable general purpose or special purpose microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP a graphics processing unit GPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD or other similar device or a combination thereof which is used for processing all tasks of the exemplary mobile electronic device and would execute functions related to the proposed method of the present disclosure.

The communication interface circuit could include components such as a protocol unit which support signal transmissions of a global system for mobile communication GSM a personal handy phone system PHS a code division multiple access CDMA system a wireless fidelity Wi Fi system or a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX . The communication interface circuit would also provide wireless access for the device by including components at least but not limited to a transmitter circuit and a receiver circuit.

The touch screen may contain a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display a field emission display FED or other types of display.

The input interface could be for example an input device such as a mouse a keyboard a joystick a wheel and so forth and would receive an input operation from a user. The input interface may also include a resistive a capacitive or other types of touch sensing device which would be integrated as a part of the touch screen . The input interface would also include a power key e.g. . When a user activates the power key by applying a short press the device would transition into a power saving mode. When a user applies a long press on the power key for more than for example two seconds the device would turn off entirely.

The storage medium could volatile or permanent memories which would store buffered or permanent data such as compiled programming codes used to execute functions of the exemplary mobile electronic device.

The remote control unit would be used to wirelessly control a target device at a distance and would include at least but not limited to a digital to analog converter a infrared pulse modulator and an infrared light transmitter. Alternatively the remote control unit may also be a BT remote control a ZigBee remote control or other types of remote control which uses short distance communication technologies. When the processor or an independent processor transmits a control command to a target device the control command would be converted into an analog signal which would then be modulated and transmitted as a modulated infrared pulse used to control a target device.

The G sensor would be a type of accelerometer for detecting acceleration and outputting acceleration measurement having X Y and Z vector components. The G sensor would also have an interrupt mode and could transmit an interrupt based on a particular condition. The proximity sensor detects nearby objects without physical contacts by transmitting electromagnetic field and detecting a change of pattern in the field. The output interface would include at least but not limited to a speaker a vibrating oscillator and one or more light emitting diodes LED .

In step S the processor would determine whether the power button e.g. has been pressed. If yes step S would be executed but if no step Swould be executed. In step S the processor would determine whether the timer has timed out. If yes step S would be executed but if no that means user activities have caused the timer to reset and the process would loop back to step S. In step S after the handheld mobile electronic device sits idle for a first predetermined period of time which could be 30 40 seconds the device would enter a first power saving mode. In one of the exemplary embodiments for the first power saving mode in addition to performing power saving measures the device would also first darken its screen first i.e. the screen is just slightly on for a second predetermined period such as 10 15 seconds. While the touch screen has been darkened to reduce power consumption a user might still dimly see the content of the touch screen on which instructions to return to the normal mode could be provided i.e. return to normal mode by performing a specific movement with the device . Normal mode here would mean that the touch screen would be re lit back to the same intensity as when steps S S would be performed and said user interface would be restored and displayed exactly as it was in steps S S i.e. right before the device first enters the power saving mode and functions would be performed in the same operational capacity as right before the device first enters the power saving mode. When the second predetermined period has expired and the device still sits idle the device would turn off the touch screen . In one of the exemplary embodiments for the first power saving mode the device would turn off the touch screen immediately after the device sits idle for a first predetermined period.

In step S after entering the first power saving mode a sensor would be linked or associated with the application such as the remote control application. Said sensor would be a sensor which measures movements of the device and could be a G sensor for example. However it would be apparent that one skilled in the art could substitute the G sensor with any other types of sensor as long as the sensor would accurately measure the movement of the device . Linking or associating a sensor with an application could mean that the sensor is registered in the registry of the operation system to allow an application to have access to the sensor through an application programming interface API . Otherwise the application would not be able to have access to the output of the G sensor.

In step S the processor would receive sensor output generated based on specific device movement. In other words if an external force moves the device to generate a specific movement and the specific movement is determined to match a specific profile then the sensor would generate an output based on the device movement. In one of the exemplary embodiment the sensor would generate an output to the application only based on the specific device movement i.e. the sensor could generate outputs in response to changes to different target locations but would not generate an output to the application except that when the specific device movement has been detected by the sensor would the sensor generate the output to the application . This means that the device movement would be determined locally by the sensor and then when the device movement matches a specific device movement profile the sensor would transmit a trigger signal to the application. This differs from convention methods which would typically output the sensor readings to the processor in which the specific movement would be determined. This however would require the analog sensor output to be converted into digital signals first before feeding it the main processor . In the conventional way the overall power consumption would be in the order of milliamps as the device would not be able to actually enter the first power saving mode or any sleep mode whereas the proposed method would only require the overall power consumption around 200 micro amps. Alternatively in one of the exemplary embodiments a low power independent micro controller could be used to process sensor readings in order to determine whether device movements match a specific device movement profile. By doing such more complex determination could be performed.

In step S upon receiving an output trigger signal from the sensor after the device movement matches the specific movement profile the first power saving mode would be exited and the normal mode would be reverted. The normal mode would be reverted in the manner such that not only the touch screen would be turned on but also the user interface of the application would be restored and displayed just the way it was right before the device enters the first power saving mode in the first place. Also all of this would be accomplished without having a user to perform screen unlock gestures and enter passwords. When the normal mode has been reverted the procedure may continue from step S.

If step S is performed instead the device would enter a second power saving mode upon receiving a key input of a predefined key which for example could be the same power key used to turn on and off the device as previously mentioned. In the second power saving mode the processor would perform power saving measures but the touch screen would be turned off right away. In step S the sensor used to determine device movement would be dissociated from the application if step S had been performed previously. In this way regardless of whether there is a specific movement imposed on the device the second power saving mode would not be exited until in step S when said predefined key has been activated. In step S the touch screen would require user input such as performing the screen unlock procedure and entering a password before the user interface of the application could be restored and then the procedure could continue from step S.

In order to make the proposed method more robust steps S S involve the use of a proximity sensor to determine whether a user has placed the device into a pocket or a bag right before the device times out and enter the first power saving mode. The proximity sensor could be turned on 1 2 seconds before the timer reaches a third predetermined period i.e. timing out . In step S the processor through the use of a timer would determine whether the second predetermined period has been reached i.e. 1time up in . If the third predetermined period for exemplary purposes would be 30 seconds the second predetermined period could be 28 or 29 seconds. Therefore in step S if the device has sat idle for 28 or 29 seconds the device in step S could turn on the proximity sensor to determine whether the device is enclosed by nearby object s . If yes then it could be assumed that the user intention here is to store the device away and the procedure could proceed from step S. If device is not enclosed by nearby object s and in step S when the third predetermined period e.g. 30 seconds has been reached i.e. 2time up in then in step S the processor would control the touch screen to be darkened and transition to the first power saving mode and perform steps S S.

The specific device movement could be application specific. For example assuming that the remote control application is currently being used one specific device movement has been determined to optimal when the G sensor readings in the X or Y direction e.g. horizontal direction plane based on the coordinate system of exceeds a small non zero threshold but the Z direction vertical or parallel to the direction of gravity reading would be ignored in order to lower the sensitivity of the specific movement. Therefore if a user was using the remote control application and then the device times out because idleness the user would need to make a very slight movement in the X or Y direction to revert back to normal mode so as to restore the UI of the remote control application.

For another example assuming that a phone call has been reached and then a phone application has been activated one specific device movement has been determined to be optimal when the Z direction exceeds a non zero threshold but G sensor readings in the X direction and in the Y direction would both be ignored. Therefore in step S when the device has been determined to match the specific movement based on the G sensor readings the G sensor would transmit an interrupt to the processor and the interrupt would be used to trigger the step S. Steps S S would be very similar to steps S S so that a description of step S will not be repeated.

In another specific embodiment a user could be trained to apply a specific movement to revert back to the normal mode and execute step S. For example similar to step S when the touch screen is first darkened and enters the first power saving mode an instruction could be displayed to inform the user to execute a specific movement to execute step S. The specific direction could be for the user to rotate the device first clockwise and then counterclockwise or vice versa. This would mean that positive X and Y reading would need to be detected first to be followed by negative X and Y reading and vice versa in an alternating fashion. Also the specific movement could be a quick shaking type of movement for which a positive X or Y direction reading would need to be quickly followed by a negative X or Y direction reading in an alternating fashion with each positive or negative direction movement executed in less than a short period of time e.g. 0.5 second in order to trigger step S to be executed.

In step S when the time of inactivity reaches 29 seconds the proximity sensor would be activated and would detect for nearby object s . If nearby object s approximate to the device has been detected the device would enter a pocket mode in which the device would be assumed to be in a pocket and would not be turned on unless a user activates the power key and the process would progress to step S.

If the device is not in the pocket mode then the device would execute steps similar to S and S. Meanwhile the G sensor would be registered to the remote control application and in step S the G sensor would take X Y and Z vector component readings. In step S the G sensor would locally determine whether the X Y Z vector component readings match a specific movement profile. When the device has been deemed to move according to the specific movement then in step S an interrupt would be generated otherwise the G sensor would continue to take X Y Z vector component readings. When an interrupt has been generated the interrupt signal would be received by the processor in step S and then step S would be executed and the procedure would continue in step S.

If a user had activated the power key in step S the device would enter the second power saving mode in step S in which the screen would be turned off by the processor right away. In step S the G sensor would be dissociated or unregistered from the remote control application so that the application or the processor would no longer receive the interrupt until in step S the user activates the power key once again. In step S the user may restore the user interface of the remote control application by performing screen unlock procedures and or entering a password.

In one of the exemplary embodiment which is alternative to step S when the processor has determined that no other application would have a need for the G sensor the processor may deactivate the G sensor in step S before reactivating the G sensor in step S.

In view of the aforementioned descriptions the present disclosure would be used by a handheld mobile electronic device and is able to quickly restore the user interface of a handheld mobile electronic device from a power saving mode back to the state which was right before the handheld mobile electronic device went into the power saving mode in the first place without going through the trouble of unlocking screens and performing a login process. Also the present disclosure would reduce power consumption based on the detection of interrupts from the onboard sensor and steps to dissociate the onboard sensor from the application having said user interface during circumstances when receiving interrupts from the onboard sensor is no longer deemed necessary.

No element act or instruction used in the detailed description of disclosed embodiments of the present application should be construed as absolutely critical or essential to the present disclosure unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein each of the indefinite articles a and an could include more than one item. If only one item is intended the terms a single or similar languages would be used. Furthermore the terms any of followed by a listing of a plurality of items and or a plurality of categories of items as used herein are intended to include any of any combination of any multiple of and or any combination of multiples of the items and or the categories of items individually or in conjunction with other items and or other categories of items. Further as used herein the term set is intended to include any number of items including zero. Further as used herein the term number is intended to include any number including zero.

In all the drawings of the present disclosure a box enclosed by dotted lines would mean an optional functional element or an optional step and a dotted line may mean that the process flow could be optional or may not necessarily occur.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the structure of the disclosed embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. In view of the foregoing it is intended that the disclosure cover modifications and variations of this disclosure provided they fall within the scope of the following claims and their equivalents.

Moreover the claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. In addition use of the term means in any claim is intended to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 6 and any claim without the word means is not so intended.

