---

title: Enabling a social networking pre-submission filtering
abstract: A content for a message to be submitted to a social networking account of a person can be received. The message can be submitted and the content can be shared with other persons via the social network. Prior to conveying, submitting, and/or storing, the message can be scored in one or more dimensions. The dimensions can represent aspects of a reputation of the person. Previously established threshold scores for each of the dimensions can be determined. When the content is outside an established allowance range of the scores, performing a programmatic action to ensure that the submission of the message does not automatically occur to the account. When the content is not outside the scores, not taking a programmatic action to prevent the submission of the message and instead permitting the submission of the message to automatically occur to the account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531655&OS=09531655&RS=09531655
owner: 
number: 09531655
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140328
---
This utility application converts and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 806 026 filed 28 Mar. 2013. The entire contents of U.S. Application No. 61 806 026 are incorporated by reference herein.

The utility application also claims priority and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 150 351 titled Improved Social Interactive Intelligence Exhibited by Machines Programs During Human Machine Interactions Using Life State Values filed Jan. 8 2014 which claimed priority to US Provisional 61 750 053 filed 8 Jan. 2013 and US Provisional 61 773 515 filed 6 Mar. 2013. The entire contents of application Ser. Nos. 14 150 351 61 750 053 and 61 773 515 are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to the field of social network filtering and more particularly to enabling a social networking pre submission filtering.

With the growing desire to be constantly connected devices and applications are available which let people share ideas instantly with friends or the general public. For example mobile phones permit multiple ways to share content which can include images video and text messages. Multiple avenues of communication can be advantageous in many instances permitting people to connect with others in a variety of ways. For example friends and family can stay current with each other through FACEBOOK feed posts e.g. timeline instant messaging and TWITTER photo tweets.

However with the advent of instant communication many problems arise especially when inappropriate content is inadvertently shared. When inappropriate content such as offensive images and controversial statements is shared by a person the content can often damage the reputation of the person sharing the content. That is often times persons share content which they later discover negatively impacts their reputation. For example drunk texting is a common form of communication in which a person texts another person one or more inappropriate messages which subsequently results in a negative outcome. This can be especially damaging to persons of notoriety such as celebrities and or socialites which can irreparably destroy their public image. As such it is desirable to leverage existing technologies to assist in conducting communication with limited negative outcomes.

One aspect of the present invention can include an apparatus a computer program product a system and a method for enabling a social networking pre submission filtering. A content for a message to be submitted to a social networking account of a person can be received. The message can be submitted and the content can be shared with other persons via the social network. Prior to conveying submitting and or storing the message can be scored in one or more dimensions. The dimensions can represent aspects of a reputation of the person. Previously established threshold scores for each of the dimensions can be determined. When the content is outside an established allowance range of the scores performing a programmatic action to ensure that the submission of the message does not automatically occur to the account. When the content is not outside the scores not taking a programmatic action to prevent the submission of the message and instead permitting the submission of the message to automatically occur to the account.

Another aspect of the present invention can include an apparatus a method a computer program product a method and a system for enabling a social networking pre submission filtering. A filtering engine can be configured to filter a message content to be conveyed to a social networking account of a person prior to submission the account. The engine can analyze the content based on a previously established dimensions. The engine can generate a score for each of the established dimensions. The engine can evaluate the score against a previously established threshold corresponding to the dimension. When the score is less than or more than the threshold the engine can prompt for manual approval of the content before conveying the content to the account. A data store can be able to persist a pre submission filter a user profile including a reputation information and the message content.

Yet another aspect of the present invention can include an apparatus a system a computer program product and a method for enabling a social networking pre submission filtering. Messages of a user account of a social networking site can be received. The messages can be shared with others via the social networking site. A delay time period can be permitted before submitting the message. The delay time period can permit a user to change their mind about submitting specific content associated with the message to the social networking site. Before the delay time period the user can be permitted to withdraw and or edit content in the message. After the delay time period the degree that the user can withdraw and or edit the content of the message can be minimized. A greater latitude in withdrawing and or editing content can be given to the user during the delay period than after.

The present disclosure is a solution for enabling a social network pre submission filtering. In the solution a filter can be established that is utilized to receive submissions directed to a social networking Web site. In one instance the filter can be applied before the submission e.g. content information is conveyed posted stored on the social networking Web site. In one configuration of the instance the filter can be utilized to prompt a user associated with the submission for manual approval before the submission is conveyed posted stored on the social networking Website. In one embodiment the service can be an identity protector or an reputation protector designed to ensure a person does not post information likely to damage their public image or reputation. In another embodiment the filter can be utilized to prevent submissions of an underage person from submitting content information deemed dangerous to the submitter s reputation or health.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As used herein a text exchange message can be a real time or near real time electronic message composed and or conveyed within a computing device. Message can include but is not limited to content metadata e.g. formatting data control information e.g. header and the like. Message can include but is not limited to instant messages Short Message Service messages electronic mail Web site post forum post and the like. Content can include but is not limited to a text a video an image and the like.

As used herein a social network can be an online community of groups and or individuals organized into one or more traditional and or proprietary social networks. For example social network can be a social network associated with a YOUTUBE video site. It should be appreciated that social network can include a social networking Web site e.g. a user feed a user account and the like. It should be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited to traditional social networks and can be extended to temporary social organizations e.g. video conferencing with text chat whiteboard collaborations real time chat rooms and the like.

A virtual community can be a social network of individuals who interact through specific social media potentially crossing geographical and political boundaries in order to pursue mutual interests or goals. One of the most pervasive types of virtual community operate under social networking services consisting of various online communities.

In one instance user presence within social network Web site can be linked with behavioral characteristics which can represent a reputation associated with the user . Reputation can be an opinion about user typically a result of social evaluation on a set of criteria which can include but is not limited to business reputation financial reputation social reputation sexual reputation and the like. In one instance reputation can be determined based on an online interaction e.g. interactions with other people in an online community from a real life reputation and the like. In one instance a profile e.g. social profile associated with an account of user within a social network can be utilized to explicitly represent a person s reputation e.g. or identity . In the instance the profile can define one or more characteristics of an online reputation within one or more online communities.

Scenario can present a logic flow associated with the pre submission filtering functionality of the disclosure. Interface sequence can correspond to the logic flow and can present one or more interfaces associated with the logic flow. For example message composition interface can correspond to interface and approval interface can be presented in the context of evaluation .

In scenario a user interacting with a text exchange application executing on a mobile phone can compose a text exchange message . For example user can use a message composition interface e.g. a screen of interface to compose content . Text exchange message can include a text content and or a multimedia content which can be conveyed to a social network . For example user can compose an update status to submit e.g. Post button to their FACEBOOK feed indicating they are considerably inebriated at a venue. In one embodiment a pre submission filtering can be performed on the message . The pre submission filtering can perform evaluation which can determine if message aligns with user s reputation and or personality on social network . For example an approval interface can be presented indicating the message can negatively impact the user s reputation if the message is posted to their user feed on TWITTER. That is if the content makes the user appear more socially liberal than their reputation indicates the approval interface can be presented. In the embodiment if the message does not conform to a user s reputation a manual authorization can be presented to assist the user in reconsidering the message submission. For example interface can permit the user to edit e.g. edit button the message to tone down the content of message prior to posting. In one embodiment approval interface can permit user to cancel message resulting in message deletion.

In one instance submission of the message can be performed upon approval e.g. selection of Post Anyway interface element . In the instance submission can convey message to social network permitting content to appear on user s feed . That is pre submission filtering can be performed prior to conveyance to network enabling privacy to be maintained.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one embodiment the pre submission filtering functionality described herein can control the conveyance submission and or storing of messages e.g. content . It should be appreciated that content analysis can be performed in real time or near real time. Content analysis can include but is not limited to lexical analysis semantic analysis contextual analysis and the like.

In scenario a content can affect a user s e.g. reputation resulting in the user appearing to be less promiscuous and or less sexually liberal than their reputation projects. In one instance the disclosure can prompt the user to post a more promiscuous and or sexually liberal variation of the content to fit their reputation.

In one embodiment content can affect a user s e.g. reputation resulting in the user appearing to be more promiscuous and or more sexually liberal than their reputation projects. In the embodiment the disclosure can prompt the user to post a less promiscuous and or sexually liberal variation of the content.

In one instance the disclosure can permit editing of the content resulting in a modified content which can fit with the user s reputation. In the instance the user can be prompted to utilize the modified content before submitting the modified content.

In scenario a message content can be composed within a message composition interface . Message composition interface can include an interface element for submitting content to a social network. Upon selection of element pre submission filtering can be performed. In one instance an approval interface can be presented when content conflicts with a user s reputation on a social network. In the instance approval interface can present a notification which can indicate how the content can affect the user s reputation. For example the interface can state that content can make the user appear more sexually conservative than their current reputation indicates. Upon user approval e.g. selection of Post Anyway interface element a submission delay can be enacted. The submission delay can postpone content conveyance to the social network. For example the delay can result in content being communicated to social network after two hours allowing a user to reconsider content without unnecessary risk. That is delay can permit a grace period for a user to evaluate content without affecting their reputation. Once delay is expired submission can be performed resulting in content being presented within user feed .

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one embodiment content submission can be immediate responsive to user approval. In the embodiment content can be submitted to user feed but the content can remain hidden until delay is expired. In one configuration of the embodiment hidden e.g. delayed content can be visible to only the content owner and can be managed until delay is expired. That is a user can view their feed and hidden content can be presented enabling a user to change his or her mind about whether or not to allow content to be visible within feed . It should be appreciated that this hidden functionality can exist when delay is not expired.

In one embodiment a quarantine functionality can an extension of the functionality of the disclosure. In the embodiment the quarantine function can permit a specialized message queue e.g. holding area to be available to allow pre submission filtered messages to be reviewed and or approved prior to submission. In one configuration of the embodiment the quarantine functionality can be a paid service feature permitting a revenue stream to be generated from the quarantine capability of the disclosure. For example a subscriber of a social network can pay a monthly service fee to be allowed to access messages which can be potentially embarrassing prior to submission. That is the functionality can aid users in minimizing negative outcomes from inappropriate messages.

In scenario a message content can be composed within a message composition interface . Message content can include a text content and an image content . Message composition interface can include an interface element for submitting content to a social network. Upon selection of element pre submission filtering can be performed. In one instance an approval interface can be presented when content conflicts with a user s reputation on a social network. In the instance approval interface can present a notification which can indicate how the content can affect the user s reputation. For example the interface can state that content can make the user appear less financially stable than their current reputation indicates. Upon user approval e.g. selection of Post Anyway interface element submission can be performed resulting in content being conveyed to the relevant social network and presented within user feed .

In scenario a message content can be composed within a message composition interface . Message content can include a text content . Message composition interface can include an interface element for submitting content to a social network. Upon selection of element pre submission filtering can be performed. In one instance an approval interface can be presented when content conflicts with a user s reputation on a social network. In the instance approval interface can present a notification which can permit selective group visibility of the content to one or more groups associated with the user. For example the interface can allow content to be only visible to a Close Friends group on the social network. Upon user approval e.g. selection of Post Anyway interface element submission can be performed resulting in content being conveyed to the relevant social network and presented within user feed with the selected group setting.

Message server can be a hardware software entity for executing filtering engine . Server functionality can include but is not limited to load balancing encryption and the like. Server can include but is not limited to filtering engine pre submission filter pending message queue data store and the like. In one instance message server can be a server associated with social networking server .

Filtering engine can be a hardware software element for performing pre submission filtering of messages . Engine can include but is not limited to profile analyzer pre submission component submission engine settings and the like. Engine functionality can include but is not limited to message composition detection content analysis and the like. In one instance engine can be a component of social networking server computing device e.g. text exchange application and the like. It should be appreciated that engine functionality can be present within an Application Programming Interface a plug in software and the like. In one instance engine can be present within a proxy server permitting message filtering prior to transmission to social networking server .

Profile analyzer can be a hardware software entity for enabling reputation based pre submission filtering. Analyzer functionality can include but is not limited to user account selection feed analysis social profile analysis and the like. Analyzer can analyze profile to generate filter which can be utilized to perform pre submission filtering. In one instance analyzer can determine one or more reputation attributes and associated thresholds from analysis of social profile and submitted messages . It should be appreciated that analyzer can analyze one or more metrics associated with a reputation in an online community.

Pre submission component can be a hardware software element for filtering messages prior to message submission. Component functionality can include pre submission filter generation content evaluation rules execution and the like. In one instance component can detect submission events e.g. selection of a Post button facilitate content approval enabling pre submission editing and the like. In the instance component can utilize pre submission filter to perform pre submission filtering actions. In one embodiment component can utilize filter to generate content analysis . In the embodiment component can utilize traditional and or proprietary content analysis mechanisms to generate analysis . For example analysis can be generated from word match. Analysis can include one or more dimensions a score and the like. For example analysis can establish a dimension associated with a political attribute when content includes one or more appropriate words e.g. democrat political policy events entities e.g. Congress and or people.

Submission engine can be a hardware software entity for submission of messages and or message . In one instance engine can utilize a pending message queue to process messages . In the instance queue can persist pending messages which can undergo pre submission filtering. Engine functionality can include but is not limited to protocol mediation data exchange mediation and the like.

Settings can be one or more rulesets for establishing the behavior of server engine and or system . Settings can include but is not limited to profile analyzer options pre submission component settings submission engine options and the like. In one instance settings can include security policies authentication settings filter rules and the like. Setting can be manually and or automatically determined. In one instance setting can be configured via interface and or an interface communicatively linked to server .

Pre submission filter can be a data set representing personal data associated with a specific user. Filter can include but is not limited to pre submission filtering information pre submission filtering options e.g. user preferences and the like. In one instance filter can be generated from a reputation information associated with social profile . Filter can include but is not limited to one or more attributes a threshold associated with the attribute and the like. For example filter can represent a user s reputation via three major aspects a sexual attribute a business attribute and a political attribute each with a numerical score six seven and two. In one embodiment pre submission filter can include numerical values fuzzy logic values and the like. It should be appreciated that filter can include an arbitrary quantity of attributes. That is filter can represent any facet of a user s reputation.

Pending message queue can be a data structure and or component for passing control and or content. Queue can include but is not limited to pending message queue control information e.g. policies cache and the like. In one instance queue can persist messages e.g. pending messages which are delayed in response to pre submission filtering and or user preference. In one instance pending message can include one or more control information state information and the like. For example message can include timestamp information delay control information filter scores and the like.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to persist messages filter and the like. Data store can be a Storage Area Network SAN Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Data store can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. Data store can be communicatively linked to server in one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance data store can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database. In one embodiment data store can persist pending message queue .

Rules can be one or more settings for configuring pre submission component and or submission engine . Rules can include but is not limited to a criteria an action and the like. For example an entry can permit pre submission component to automatically present a re editing window in response to an inappropriate content . It should be appreciated that rules can be arbitrarily complex.

Social networking server can be a hardware software entity for executing a social networking platform. Server functionality can include but is not limited to data storage load balancing Web services Web site services and the like. Server can include but is not limited to a social networking Web site a user account a user feed and the like. For example server can be a server of a GOOGLE social networking platform.

User account can be a data set for authentication and or identification of a user within a social networking Web site. User account can include but is not limited to authentication information social profile user account settings and the like. Social profile can be one or more data sets associated with a personal profile e.g. personal interests of a social networking Web site. For example profile can include but is not limited to sexual orientation movie tastes contact information employment status and friends e.g. social networking friends . In one embodiment social profile can represent a reputation of the user associated with the account. In the embodiment one or more reputation information data sets e.g. metrics can be utilized to represent the reputation of the user. For example the reputation information can include but is not limited to reliability trustworthiness compassion and the like.

In one embodiment social profile can be associated with a digital identity of a user a reputation and the like. For example social profile can be associated with a MICROSOFT XBOX GAMERTAG or GAMERSCORE profile. In one instance social profile can include a reputation capital. In the instance reputation capital can be the quantitative measure of a reputational value of a user in a community. It should be appreciated that the disclosure can leverage site specific reputation metrics including but not limited to karma points kudos ratings and the like.

User feed can be a data set associated with user submitted data user generated content and the like. Feed can include but is not limited to images video text e.g. submitted messages and the like. For example feed can include photos of a user s memorable life events. Feed can conform to a timeline news feed and the like.

Computing device can be a hardware software permitting the execution of text exchange application . Device can include but is not limited to input output components user settings interface and the like. Computing device can include but is not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computing device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone and the like. Interface can be a user interactive component permitting interaction and or presentation of user feed message analysis and the like. Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. In one instance interface can be communicatively linked to computing device .

Text exchange application can be a software component for composition of messages and or content . Application can include one or more interfaces for composing messages presenting messages and or approving messages. In one embodiment application can be utilized to configure filter and or rules . In one instance application can be configured to perform a portion of the functionality described within engine .

Network can be an electrical and or computer network connecting one or more system components. Network can include but is not limited to twisted pair cabling optical fiber coaxial cable and the like. Network can include any combination of wired and or wireless components. Network topologies can include but is not limited to bus star mesh and the like. Network types can include but is not limited to Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Virtual Private Network VPN and the like.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that runtime engine can be an optional component of engine . It should be appreciated that one or more components within system can be optional components permitting that the disclosure functionality be retained. It should be understood that engine components can be optional components providing that engine functionality is maintained. It should be appreciated that one or more components of engine can be combined and or separated based on functionality usage and the like. System can conform to a Service Oriented Architecture SOA Representational State Transfer REST architecture and the like.

In step a pre submission filter of a user account of a social networking Web site can be identified. In step a message to be submitted to the social networking Web site can be selected. In step the message content can be analyzed based on one or more dimensions. In step the one or more dimensions can be scored. In step the dimensions can be evaluated against reputation attribute thresholds of the pre submission filter. In step if one or more dimensions exceed the corresponding attribute threshold the method can continue to step .

In step a notification to manually approve the message contents can be optionally presented. In step if the message is approved the method can proceed to step . In step the message submission can be optionally delayed until a grace period is expired. It should be appreciated that grace period can be a dynamic duration which can change in response to one or more factors including but not limited to time of day quantity of historic texts e.g. texts per hour min and the like. In step the message can be submitted to the social networking Web site. In step the message can be deleted. In step if there are more messages the method can return to step else continue to step .

Scenario can illustrate a notification interface of a mobile phone screen for viewing pending messages associated with pre submission filtering. Notification can include a message notifier and or action elements which can enable control of pending messages. For example message notifier can show a preview of a pending message e.g. Message C the timestamp e.g. 10 30 PM and the status e.g. Pending . In one embodiment interface can permit action elements to manage pending messages. In the embodiment action elements can allow a user to manually approve a pending message resulting in submission and or delete a pending message resulting in message deletion.

Scenario can illustrate a configuration interface which can permit the customization of pre submission filtering. Interface can include option and or . In option pre submission filtering can be activated or deactivated resulting in the subsequent of activation or deactivation of options . Option can be configured to enable or disable a submission delay e.g. grace period associated with pre submission filtering submission. In option submission delay configuration settings can be presented. Settings can include but is not limited to delay duration delay interval and the like. For example settings can permit submission delay to occur only when the message is submitted after 10 00 PM. In option profile adjustment can be performed. In one instance profile adjustment can be manually and or automatically performed. For example if a user wants to change their reputation based on historic text messages option can trigger the automatic adjustment of a pre submission filter. In option editing configuration settings can be presented. Editing configuration settings can include but is not limited to automatically presenting an editing interface presenting editing recommendations and the like. In one instance editing recommendations can include word substitution suggestions topic recommendations and the like.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that the disclosure can be associated with additional interfaces including but not limited to a content adjustment interface e.g. image replacement a pre submission message history e.g. unsent messages original messages and the like.

In scenario pre submission filtering of a text exchange message can be performed based on a life state attribute . For example filtering can be performed based on the emotional state of a user composing message . In the scenario emotional state can be obtained from one or more sources including but not limited to voice analysis facial analysis behavioral biometric analysis and the like. For example emotional state can be determined based on a user s tone when composing message via speech to text composition. In filtering evaluation can assess one or more threshold criteria associated with an emotional state of a user. When a threshold for delaying a message is met the message can be delayed . For example when state is determined to be angry the submission can be delayed until the state changes. When the threshold for submitting a message is met the message can be submitted via submission action. Submission can result in message being presented in social network Web site e.g. user feed .

In scenario pre submission filtering of a text exchange message can be performed based on a life state attribute . For example filtering can be performed based on the physiological state of a user composing message . In the scenario physiological state can be obtained from one or more sources including but not limited to heart rate blood pressure and the like. For example physiological state can be determined from a smart watch worn by a user during message composition. In filtering evaluation can assess one or more threshold criteria associated with an physiological state of a user. When a threshold for delaying a message is met the message can be delayed . For example when state is determined to be inebriated the submission can be delayed until the state changes. When the threshold for submitting a message is met the message can be submitted via submission action. Submission can result in message being presented in social network Web site e.g. user feed .

In scenario pre submission filtering of a text exchange message can provide one or more alternative communication mechanisms for message . In one instance when evaluation determines message exceeds a filter score a recommendation for a private message communication can be presented. In the instance a user can manually and or automatically approve private message communication which can result in message being communicated to user . That is submission is not performed. In one embodiment when evaluation determines message conforms to a reputation of a user the message can be submitted via submission action to social network Web site .

In scenario pre submission filtering can permit an oversight of a message by a 3rd party . In filtering evaluation of message can be performed. Evaluation can conform to one or more functionalities described herein. Upon user approval message can be conveyed to a third party for sanctioning. For example a message composed by a minor can be conveyed to a parent e.g. or guardian for approval before submission can occur. In one instance a notification of message can be conveyed to party . In the instance the notification can present the message and provide a mechanisms for approval and or rejection. Upon approval by party submission can be performed resulting in message inclusion within social network Web site . In one instance when party rejects message the message can be conveyed to the composing user for revision . The flow can repeat until party approves message .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

