---

title: Mobile and wearable device payments via free cross-platform messaging service, free voice over internet protocol communication, free over-the-top content communication, and universal digital mobile and wearable device currency faces
abstract: Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer. The method commences with receiving a multimedia transfer request from a mobile and wearable device associated with a sender. The method further comprises receiving a recipient identifier. The recipient identifier is associated with a mobile and wearable device associated with a recipient. The method continues with transferring the multimedia content to the recipient. The transfer is based on the recipient identifier. The method further comprises receiving a transaction request from the sender. The transaction request includes one or more of a currency amount, the recipient identifier, and payment data associated with the sender. The method further comprises encrypting transaction data. The transaction data includes one or more of the currency amount and the payment data associated with the sender. The method continues with performing a transaction based on the transaction request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047600&OS=09047600&RS=09047600
owner: 
number: 09047600
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140718
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 620 775 filed on Sep. 15 2012 titled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING CODES AND CASHBACK BUSINESS MODEL U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 185 491 filed on Jul. 18 2011 titled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 875 311 filed on May 2 2013 titled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING MOBILE PAYMENT ACCOUNT MOBILE BARCODE AND UNIVERSAL DIGITAL MOBILE CURRENCY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 661 207 filed Oct. 26 2012 titled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR RECEIVING COMPENSATION FOR USING MOBILE PAYMENT SERVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 623 944 filed Sep. 21 2012 titled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING TO ENABLE SELF CHECKOUT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 753 855 filed Jan. 30 2013 titled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL EYEGLASS DEVICE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 154 446 filed Jan. 14 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ISSUING MOBILE PAYMENT CARDS VIA A MOBILE COMMUNICATION NETWORK AND INTERNET CONNECTED DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 165 826 filed Jan. 28 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO OWN A FREE COMPUTER A FREE MOBILE DEVICE AND A FREE WEARABLE DEVICE AND LIFE TIME WARRANTY VIA THE SAME DEVICE PAYMENT CASHBACK U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 760 214 filed Feb. 6 2013 titled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL DEVICE FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS AND PERSONAL USE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 776 852 filed Feb. 26 2013 titled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL FLEXIBLE CLOUD GAME MULTIMEDIA COMMUNICATION AND COMPUTING DEVICE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 973 146 filed Aug. 22 2013 titled WEARABLE AUGMENTED REALITY EYEGLASS COMMUNICATION DEVICE INCLUDING MOBILE PHONE AND MOBILE COMPUTING VIA VIRTUAL TOUCH SCREEN GESTURE CONTROL AND NEURON COMMAND and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 198 683 filed Mar. 6 2014 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE USING HAPTIC CONTROL CLOUD VOICE CHANGER AND PROTECTING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA PRIVACY which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to multimedia message communication and mobile and wearable device transactions using encrypted digital currency.

When customers buy product items from various merchants in retails environments such as retail outlets shopping centers stores and so forth only a handful of payment methods is available to the customers. Typical examples include credit cards debit cards gift cards checks and cash. Each one of these payment methods has some drawbacks from cost and or convenience perspectives. For example checks and cash transactions are slow and require additional processing and or handling. All these drawbacks interfere with retail transactions and add some level of dissatisfaction. The credit or debit cards are associated with a bank account of a customer and are usually given to the customer while opening the bank account. Credit cards require substantial processing fees while debit cards require availability of funds and sometimes involve surcharges as well. Typically interchange and processing fees for a complete credit debit card transaction may reach a significant amount.

At the same time the customer typically visits a number of retails environments. Continuous carrying multiple retail cards or other security transactional devices every time when visiting a retail environment of a merchant is inconvenient for the customer. Using a mobile payment service the customer may save on processing fees as well as may be able to pay any time without carrying cash or any credit cards debit cards gift cards or checks.

Additionally personal digital communication devices such as smartphones are evolving rapidly and more and more people prefer using personal digital communication devices for a numerous purposes. One of such purposes is to send messages to other users of personal digital communication devices. Current mobile operators enable sending text image or audio massages but such kinds of service are chargeable. Furthermore sending a file having a big size e.g. a video file can be problematic due to restriction of mobile operators as to the maximum size of a file to be sent. Furthermore current messaging clients offering real time text transmission over the Internet are supposed for a certain operation system. However communication between users having different operation systems may face problems.

Moreover although available mobile operators or messaging clients for example Snapchat Skype WhatsApp Messenger solve the problem of sending various types of messages they do not provide any means for performing transactions between users. The users need to use a separate software or browser based client for making payments. Additionally the users may have to pay a transfer fee for each payment.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer. The method for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer commences with receiving a multimedia transfer request from a mobile and wearable device associated with a sender. The method further comprises receiving a recipient identifier. The recipient identifier is associated with a mobile and wearable device associated with a recipient. The method continues with transferring the multimedia content to the recipient. The transfer is based on the recipient identifier. The method further comprises receiving a transaction request from the sender. The transaction request includes one or more of a currency amount the recipient identifier and payment data associated with the sender. The transaction request is associated with transaction data. The method further comprises encrypting the transaction data. The transaction data includes one or more of the currency amount and the payment data associated with the sender. The method continues with performing a transaction based on the transaction request. According to the method the sender and the recipient are registered in a mobile payment service associated with the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender and the mobile and wearable device associated with the recipient. The mobile payment service provides at least a cross platform messaging service a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service and an Over the Top OTT service. The mobile payment service is associated with a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

The system for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer comprises one or more processors and a database. The database comprises computer readable instructions for execution by the processors. The processors are operable to receive a multimedia transfer request from a mobile and wearable device associated with a sender. The processors are further operable to receive a recipient identifier. The recipient identifier is associated with a mobile and wearable device associated with a recipient. Based on the recipient identifier the processors are operable to transfer the multimedia content to the recipient. Furthermore the processors are operable to receive a transaction request from the sender. The transaction request includes one or more of a currency amount the recipient identifier and payment data associated with the sender. The transaction request is associated with transaction data. The processors are further operable to encrypt the transaction data. The transaction data including one or more of the currency amount and the payment data associated with the sender. Based on the transaction request the processors are operable to perform a transaction. The sender and the recipient are registered in a mobile payment service associated with the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender and the mobile and wearable device associated with the recipient. The mobile payment service provides at least a cross platform messaging service a VoIP service and an OTT service. The mobile payment service is associated with a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for facilitating mobile device payments using a mobile payment account. When a customer is ready to tender a payment to a merchant instead of using a credit card cash or check the customer activates an application on his mobile device associated with a mobile payment account of the user. The mobile payment account may be associated with a mobile payment service provider and created on a request of the user. The mobile payment account may be associated with user information provided by the user to the mobile payment service provider. The user information may include a name of the user a social security number of the user a phone number an address a bank account number an insurance account number a financial organization account number and so forth. The mobile device may obtain information about the payment system of a merchant. Furthermore the mobile device may generate a payment barcode that encodes data of the mobile payment account. The mobile device may display the payment barcode on a display. The displayed barcode may be scanned by a barcode scanner of the merchant and processed to retrieve data of the mobile payment account. Based on this data a payment request may be generated and sent to the mobile payment service provider. The mobile payment service provider may then transfer funds from the mobile account of the user to the merchant. The mobile payment account may be charged based on a payment request. The payment request may be associated with the data of the mobile payment account retrieved from the payment barcode. The mobile payment account may comprise funds stored on in a form of a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

In certain embodiments a computer implemented method for facilitating mobile device payments using a mobile payment account may involve scanning a product code corresponding to the product item to retrieve product information and information about the payment system of this merchant. This operation may be performed using a mobile device.

In certain embodiments a product code may include one or more of the following codes a Unified Product Code UPC represented as a barcode and or an alphanumeric string an Electronic Product Code EPC encoded as a printed barcode or encoded on Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag or any other variations of linear barcode two dimensional barcodes alphanumeric string e.g. 8 bit 16 bit 32 bit string electronically encoded codes e.g. 96 bit strings .

Examples of mobile devices may include a cellular phone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a personal computer e.g. a tablet or a laptop a barcode scanner and an RFID scanner. In general any device that can be carried by a user into a retail environment capable of retrieving one or more types of codes listed above and capable of wirelessly communicating e.g. via Wi Fi network 3G or 4G cellular network or any other types of wireless communication networks may be used. In certain embodiments a mobile device may include a user interface for entering an alphanumeric entry corresponding to the product code. The same or another user interface may be used for entering authorization information.

In further exemplary embodiments modules subsystems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features and exemplary embodiments are described below.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the presented concepts. The presented concepts may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail so as to not unnecessarily obscure the described concepts. While some concepts will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to be limiting.

Various computer implemented methods and systems for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer are described herein. Recent proliferation of mobile and wearable devices e.g. a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet personal computer a laptop a wearable personal digital device and other similar devices that are capable of transmitting and receiving various multimedia files via a network allows implementing these methods and systems. Most users of mobile and wearable devices enjoy message communication with other users as well as performing and receiving payments using the mobile and wearable devices.

The methods and system of the present disclosure refer to a cross platform instant messaging subscription service for mobile and wearable devices. A cross platform application can be directly run on any platform without special preparation. In particular the cross platform instant messaging subscription service may run on Android iOS BlackBerry OS Symbian Windows Phone and so forth. Instant messaging provides for real time text transmission over the Internet. The cross platform instant messaging subscription service uses the same network the users use for email communication and web browsing. Therefore the cross platform instant messaging subscription service allows the users to exchange messages without having to pay mobile operators for message transmission. The messages that can be sent by the users include text image audio video geographical location massages and so forth. The users can pay a subscription price to have an access to the service for a certain period of time. In example embodiments the message communication is provided using a free cross platform messaging service a free VoIP service a free OTT service and so forth.

The methods and systems for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer of the present disclosure also include a mobile payment service. The mobile payment service is associated with digital currency and provides digital currency transactions between users. The mobile payment service enables worldwide peer to peer transactions between the users.

The digital currency of the mobile payment service is an encrypted currency that uses cryptography to control creation and transfer of the currency. In order to increase security of the currency the currency is customized according to user personal data. For example the user sends a currency request to the mobile payment service. In response to the currency request the mobile payment service creates digital currency associated with the user. In particular user personal data can be present on the digital currency for example an image of a user face can be provided on the digital currency. Such currency having the user face printed on it can be referred to as universal digital mobile and wearable device currency faces or currency faces .

The systems described herein may be financial systems associated with mobile payment accounts optical codes e.g. barcodes generated by a mobile device a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency and mobile credits associated with the mobile payment accounts. Upon providing user personal data via a user interface of the mobile device a user may receive a mobile payment account from a mobile payment service provider. The mobile device may include a mobile phone a personal digital assistant a lap top a tablet PC a smart phone a wearable personal digital device and so forth. The mobile payment account may be used for performing financial transactions for example for buying products or services. The mobile payment service provider may include any financial organization such as a bank an insurance company and the like that may provide the mobile payment account to the user upon receipt of the user information. The mobile payment service provider may be associated with chain stores for example Starbucks and franchise organizations such as McDonald s to operate a large scale banking service of these organizations without bank charges.

The user information provided to register a mobile payment account may include a name of the user a social security number of the user a phone number an address a bank account number an insurance account number a financial organization account number and the like. In some embodiments the mobile payment account may not be associated with any credit card of the user. On the contrary access to the mobile payment account may be given through the mobile device of the user for example by installing an application on the mobile device. The application may be associated with the data of the mobile payment account of the user and may communicate with the mobile payment service provider to update the data of the mobile payment account.

The user may access the mobile payment account any time and may perform any operations such as pay for a product transfer funds to a banking account or another mobile payment account make a deposit to the mobile payment account and so forth.

When the user is ready to tender a payment for products or services instead of using a credit card cash or check the user may activate an application on his mobile device. The mobile device may generate and display a barcode that encodes data of the mobile payment account.

The data of the mobile payment account may be stored in a memory unit of the user mobile device or a remote secure cloud server. Additionally the data of the mobile payment account may be stored in a database of the mobile payment service provider. Upon a request of the user the data of the mobile payment account may be displayed on a display of the user mobile device for example in a form of a barcode being scannable by a barcode scanner.

In some embodiments information about a receiver of the payment may be sent to the mobile payment service provider by the receiver himself after he retrieves the data encoded in the payment barcode. In other embodiments the information about the merchant may be obtained for example by product code scanning. Product codes are typically provided as barcodes such as linear barcodes and two dimensional barcodes as well as human readable alphanumeric code. Displaying a barcode may involve processing information to encode into a barcode image. The local processing may be performed using various software applications installed on the mobile device. For example the Universal Product Code UPC or European Article Number EAN may be used. UPC is a barcode symbology widely used in North America and other countries for tracking trade items in stores. Its most common form the UPC A consists of 12 numerical digits which are uniquely assigned to each individual trade product item. Each UPC A barcode consists of a scannable strip of black bars and white spaces above a sequence of 12 numerical digits. No letters characters or other content of any kind may appear on a standard UPC A barcode. The digits and bars maintain a one to one correspondence. In other words there is only one way to represent each 12 digit number visually and there is only one way to represent each visual barcode numerically. EAN is another example developed as a superset of UPC and adding an extra digit to the beginning of every UPC number. EAN 13 barcodes also indicate the country in which the company that sells the product is based using leading digits. EAN and UPC barcodes are currently the only barcodes allowed for scanning trade product items at the point of sale. However other codes may be available in the future and within the scope of this document.

One having ordinary skills in the art would understand that the term scanning is not limited to printed codes having particular formats but can be used for codes encoded electronically and using various other means. For example product codes may be in the form of the recently developed Electronic Product Code EPC designed as a universal identifier that provides a unique identity for every physical object not just a trade item category anywhere in the world. It should be noted that EPCs are not exclusively used with RFID data carriers. They can be constructed based on reading of optical data carriers such as linear bar codes and two dimensional bar codes such as Data Matrix symbols. For purposes of this document all optical data carriers are referred herein as barcodes. 

Scanning a barcode may involve capturing an image of the barcode using a simple imaging device installed on a mobile device such as a digital camera. The image may be then processed on the mobile device to retrieve corresponding product information or sent to the server for further processing. The local processing may be performed using various software installed on the mobile device. In certain embodiments a mobile device may contain a local database to match the retrieved product information with additional information about this product. However because of variable nature of this additional information e.g. pricing product description a mobile device then typically transmits the retrieved product information to the server and then receives some additional information from the server.

In some embodiments funds may be stored on the mobile payment account in a form of universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be created by the mobile payment service provider. In other embodiments one or more of conventional virtual money systems may be used as the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be used in various operations performed with mobile payment account for example users of the system for facilitating mobile device payments may transfer funds to each other in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may pay for products or services for example in on line gaming systems for buying virtual products in on line games and so forth.

The methods described herein may be performed by any mobile devices with wireless communication capabilities. In addition to being capable of transmitting voice based signals many modern cell phones have internet connectivity using cellular networks e.g. 3G 4G as well as Wi Fi and other types of networks. Some additional examples of such networks are described below with reference to . Wireless communication may be used to transmit retrieved product information to a payment server receive replies and transmit authorizations. Overall various data may be exchanged between the mobile and payment server as well as other servers during operations of the method.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which a method and a system for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer can be implemented. The environment includes a network a sender a sender digital device a recipient a recipient digital device a system for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer a database an encryption verification unit and a mobile payment service . The sender digital device and the recipient digital device include a mobile phone a lap top a personal computer PC a tablet PC a smart phone a wearable personal digital device a wearable eyeglass communication device and so forth.

The network includes the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks includes or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network includes a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication.

The sender includes a person that performs sending multimedia messages and performing payments to the recipient . The multimedia includes different multimedia types such as text image audio video animation and the like. The payment is associated with digital currency. The multimedia messages and payment data may be stored in the database .

The sender selects a multimedia message to be sent to the recipient and sends the multimedia message to the recipient . The recipient uses the recipient digital device to receive and review the multimedia message received from the sender . In an example embodiment the sender digital device encrypts a multimedia message before sending. The encryption details are sent to the encryption verification unit and stored in the encryption verification unit . After receiving of the multimedia message by the recipient and an attempt of the recipient to view the multimedia message the encryption verification unit verifies whether the recipient is allowed to view the multimedia message .

Furthermore the sender selects an amount of payment to be transferred to the recipient and sends a transfer request to the mobile payment service . The mobile payment service transfers the amount of the payment to the recipient digital device . The encryption verification unit encrypts data associated with the transfer request.

At operation the method continues with receiving by the one or more processors a recipient identifier. The recipient identifier is associated with a mobile and wearable device associated with a recipient. In example embodiments the recipient identifier includes one or more of a phone number of the recipient a phone model of the mobile and wearable device associated with the recipient and an operation system version of the mobile and wearable device associated with the recipient.

Upon receiving the recipient identifier the method further continues with transferring by the one or more processors the multimedia content to the recipient at operation . The transferring is based on the recipient identifier.

The sender and the recipient may be registered in a mobile payment service associated with the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender and the mobile and wearable device associated with the recipient. The mobile payment service is a peer to peer payment service and provides at least a cross platform messaging service a VoIP service and an OTT service. The VoIP service allows for the delivery of voice communications and multimedia sessions over Internet Protocol IP networks such as the Internet. The VoIP is associated with IP telephony Internet telephony voice over broadband VoBB broadband telephony IP communications and broadband phone service. The OTT service refers to delivery of video audio and other media over the Internet without a mobile provider being involved in the control or distribution of the content. A mobile provider may be aware of the contents of the IP packets but is not responsible for nor able to control the viewing abilities copyrights and or other redistribution of the content. The mobile payment service may be associated with a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

In an example embodiment the mobile payment service may be associated with fingerprint payments by swiping a finger across a touchscreen of the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender and may be further associated with one or more of the following transactional payments based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing credit card mobile payments prepaid card payments online wallets QR code payments contactless near field communication cloud based mobile payments audio signal based payments Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payments in application payments software development kit SDK payments application programming interface API payments social networking payments direct carrier bank co operation and the like.

The method may continue with receiving from the sender a currency request at operation . The currency request include for example amount of the currency to the given to the sender. In response to the currency request the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be customized in the mobile payment service at operation . The customization may include printing an image on the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The currency in the mobile payment service may be customized according to data associated with the sender. In an example embodiment the customization includes printing an image on the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The image includes an image of a sender face. In some embodiments to provide the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency with artistic value the image may be an image of a public figure a fashion designer a movie character and so forth. The sender may have his own portrait for the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency or the image may be made from currency bills reassembled into the faces of politicians and cultural figures.

The method continues with receiving by the one or more processors a transaction request from the sender at operation . The transaction request includes a currency amount the recipient identifier and payment data associated with the sender. The mobile payment service is associated with a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

In an example embodiment verification of the sender face may be performed to prevent an identity theft. For example the image of the sender face may be taken by a camera of the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender. The captured image of sender face may be recognized and compared to those stored on the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender. In an example embodiment the camera may recognize the sender face without capturing the image.

Biometrics may be used to recognize and match unique patterns in human faces. In an example embodiment when a sender registers in a mobile payment service an image of the sender face may be provided to the mobile payment service and is linked to the sender account in the mobile payment service. The sender account in the mobile payment service may be linked to a payment account of the sender. To initiate a payment on a point of sale the sender may access a barcode needed to complete a transaction from the sender account in mobile payment service. The barcode may also contain the image of the sender face. Therefore the barcode and the sender face may be a way of representing information. The barcode may be displayed on a display of the mobile and wearable device of the sender. After the merchant at the point of sale scans the barcode the image of the sender face may appear on a screen associated with a point of sale system. The merchant may use that image to verify the sender and complete the transaction.

A sender face on the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency and face verification feature may have the potential of the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency to replace the central bank currency. Considering its characteristics only the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency can become the dominant payment instrument.

In an example embodiment the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be a digital equivalent of virtual cash with the sender face both for sender prestige and verification of sender identity. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be stored on a mobile and wearable electronic device associated with the sender the mobile and wearable device associated with a recipient and a remote server. The sender and the recipient may store the required amounts of universal digital mobile and wearable device currency and use the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency for payments. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency also may act as electronic money being stored on and used via internet based payment accounts.

The transaction request is associated with transaction data. At operation the transaction data is encrypted by the one or more processors. The transaction data includes the currency amount and the payment data associated with the sender. In example embodiments the encryption includes assigning a unique key to the transaction data. The method optionally comprises sending the unique key to an encryption verification unit. In example embodiments the encryption verification unit includes a key storage.

In a further example embodiment the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency includes an encrypted currency also referred to as cryptocurrency. The encrypted currency is encrypted using principles of cryptography being a technology used in online banking. Unlike fiat currency with central banks and online banking the encrypted currency discussed herein is created using peer reviewed cryptographic ciphers thus removing the need to trust a central authority. Thus transfer of the encrypted currency does not require trust of any third party.

Upon encryption of the transaction data at operation a transaction of the currency to the recipient is performed based on the transaction request. After performing the transaction the method optionally comprises receiving a currency conversion request from the recipient. In response to the currency conversion request the currency received from the sender is converted into a currency associated with the recipient. In particular the conversion includes replacing the image on the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency with an image of a recipient face.

Printing the face on the digital currency is an additional security feature that enables worldwide peer to peer transactions with no risk of chargebacks or fraud. At the same time both sender and recipient are immune to seizure or confiscation of the currency.

In a further example embodiment the method may comprise receiving a sales point search request from the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender. In response to the sales point search request a current location of the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender may be determined. Upon determining a list of sales points such as stores and restaurants that accept payments in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency and are located in proximity to the current location of the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender may be displayed on mobile and wearable device associated with the sender. Once the sender checks in to a sales point online name and photo of the sender may appear on the display of the sales point. The sender can then use the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency to pay for items and a merchant may complete the transaction by clicking on the name or photo of the sender shown on the display of the sales point.

In a further example embodiment the sender may upload the payment data associated with the sender and an image of a sender face to a cloud storage. A merchant may have a card associated with the mobile payment service and a unique merchant barcode for each of point of sale terminals. The merchant barcode may be associated with merchant account data. The sender may scan a merchant barcode at the point of sale terminal. The identity of the sender may be checked for example the sender face may be scanned by the camera of the mobile and wearable device and compared with the image of the sender face stored on the mobile and wearable device or in the cloud storage. Upon successful identity check the merchant account data may be retrieved from the merchant barcode. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency of the sender may be transferred to the merchant account.

In a further example embodiment the merchant may use a printer to print a merchant invoice with barcodes encoding merchant account data on the invoice. The sender may scan the merchant invoice to retrieve the merchant account data.

The processors are further operable to receive from the sender a transaction request. The transaction request includes one or more of a currency amount the recipient identifier payment data associated with the sender and so forth. The transaction request is associated with transaction data. The processors are further operable to encrypt the transaction data. The transaction data including one or more of the currency amount and the payment data associated with the sender. In an example embodiment the encryption includes assigning a unique key to the transaction data. Based on the transaction request the processors are operable to perform a transaction. The sender and the recipient can be registered in a mobile payment service associated with the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender and the mobile and wearable device associated with the recipient. The mobile payment service provides at least a cross platform messaging service a VoIP service and an OTT service. The mobile payment service is a peer to peer payment service associated with a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency includes an encrypted currency.

In further example embodiments the processors are operable to receive a currency request from the sender. In response to the currency request the processors are operable to customize a currency in the mobile payment service. The customization includes printing an image on the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The image can be a photo of the sender e.g. an image of a sender face.

In further example embodiments the processors are operable to receive a currency conversion request from the recipient. In response to the currency conversion request the processors are operable to convert the currency received from the sender. The conversion includes replacing the image on the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency with an image of a recipient face.

The system further comprises a database comprising computer readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors .

In some embodiments before giving a request to generate the payment barcode the mobile device may be used to capture an image of the product barcode. This image may be then processed by the mobile device to retrieve product information e.g. UPC or EAN code encoded in the product code. The product barcode may encode the product information and the information about a payment system of a merchant providing the product. The information encoded in the product barcode and the data of the mobile payment account stored on the mobile device may be used for generating the payment barcode.

Method may proceed with displaying the payment barcode on a display of the user mobile device in operation . The displayed payment barcode may be scannable by a barcode scanner. The barcode scanner may include a checkout scanner a check in scanner a mobile device a wearable personal device and so forth. The payment barcode displayed on the display of the mobile device may be a linear barcode a two dimensional barcode a three dimensional barcode or any other machine readable code.

In certain embodiments method may include an optional operation that involves requesting identification information to authorize access to the mobile payment account via the interface of the user mobile device. The identification information may include a password a Personal Identification Number PIN code and biometric authorization including fingerprint scanning palm scanning face scanning and retina scanning. The scanning may be performed using the one or more biometric sensors of the mobile device.

Method may optionally involve determining availability of funds on the mobile payment account in operation . The user may give a request by the interface of the mobile device to display the amount of funds available on the mobile payment account. After receiving such request the mobile payment service provider may transmit the information about the available funds to the mobile device. Then the data about the amount of funds available on the mobile payment account may be displayed on the display of the mobile device. Alternatively data of the mobile payment account retrieved from the scanned payment barcode may be used to determine availability of funds.

Method may also optionally involve receiving a deposit to the mobile payment account in operation . The user may put the deposit to the mobile payment account via a cash in automatic transaction machine ATM a bank transfer a transfer from another mobile payment account and the like. In an example embodiment the deposit to the mobile payment account may be received using universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

Finally method may also involve charging the mobile payment account in operation . The mobile payment account may be charged based on a payment request received from a payment receiver. The payment request may be associated with the data of the mobile payment account retrieved from the payment barcode. The funds may be transferred from the mobile payment account of the user to the account of the merchant receiver . This operation may also involve updating the data of the mobile payment account based on the transferred payment amount.

In some embodiments the funds may be stored on the mobile payment account in a form of universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be a digital currency paper less contact less and non physical enabling instant payments between users for example a seller and a buyer anytime and anywhere in the world. With the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency involvement of financial institution and associated fees and charges may be avoided. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency is issued and managed via mobile devices or mobile networks. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be stored on the user mobile device or an on line wallet transmitted and received in a peer to peer manner via the user mobile device an on line resource and mobile device application. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be owned transferred purchased and sold by the user virtually or in real life.

To protect users the mobile payment service provider may set limits on operations in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency the limits including a limit for a pre determined period a number of transactions limit and a maximum amount per transaction.

Additionally the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency stored on a user device maybe encrypted for example using high standard encryption that is used in military and government applications. Moreover payments in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be protected by a digital signature and a password. Thus risk of fraud chargeback and identity theft associated with Internet payments may be eliminated.

In some embodiments the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be handled using an interface associated with an on line wallet the user mobile device. History of transactions in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency is stored in a network. Additionally the use of the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency allows eliminating the need for Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard compliance and expensive security measures.

In some embodiments the mobile payment service provider may provide micro credit loans payday loans long term loans and short term loans in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

Thus the user mobile device may perform a function of a point of sale terminal using the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. The user mobile device may become a bank terminal and the user a 24 hour full time banker. Furthermore the user mobile device may perform a function of payment cards terminal using the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency.

The mobile payment service provider may set an exchange rate for the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency with respect to one or more official state currencies. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be not controller by any national government.

In some embodiments a transfer from the mobile payment account of the user to an account of the merchant or another mobile payment account may be performed in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency. Additionally funds transfers in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be performed to other types of accounts for example to the account of the user in an on line gaming system.

In some embodiments the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be a decentralized universal digital currency based on mobile devices and peer to peer internet protocol. The universal digital currency may be exchanged to an official state currency based on an exchange rate set by the mobile payment service provider without an intermediate financial institution.

The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be issued by a universal digital mobile and wearable device currency bank that may be a virtual bank holding a deposit of the user. An issue volume of the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be a percentage of a total transaction volume of the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency bank. A percentage and an annual issue of the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be calculated based on analysis of a number of factors including at least one or a combination of transaction volume transaction growth deposit to expense ratio total deposit to total transaction ratio user quantity virtual loan per a person virtual debt per a person universal digital mobile and wearable device currency issue per a person default risk and liquidation capacity.

In some embodiments the mobile payment account may be accessible on platforms iOS Android Windows Linux Unix and so forth using a smartphone a wearable personal digital device a game console a personal computer a tablet personal computer and a car computer. A non cash deposit to the mobile payment account may be made by means of a mobile phone a personal computer and a wearable personal digital device. A cash deposit to the mobile payment account may be made at a place of the mobile payment service provider.

The password allowing an access to the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be in a form of a alphanumeric character a voice a scrambled image a video clip a gesture of any part of a body. The password may be entered by means of a touch screen a keyboard a mouse or a camera of the mobile device or by means of a remote control of the mobile device.

In some embodiments the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be a digital currency enabling to perform a payment to any person at any time and any place. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be a peer to peer electronic digital currency enabling to send mobile device payments or on line payments directly without a financial institution. Use of the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may eliminate the risk of a fraud a chargeback and an identity theft. The universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be exchanged by means of the mobile device using a national currency exchange rate or a virtual wallet. To perform or verify a transaction the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency may be accessed via a virtual wallet interface or a cloud server. To each transaction in the universal digital mobile and wearable device currency a transaction fee may be applied.

In some embodiments the mobile device payments may be performed using wireless communication such as a Wi Fi communication. The mobile device payments may include person to person business to business person to business and business to person financial transactions. The mobile payment service provider may issue a payment barcode encoding payment card information. A payment card may include a credit card a debit card a gift card a discount card and a coupon card.

In some embodiments the processor may generate a receipt barcode the receipt barcode being scannable by a barcode scanner or a user device. On the scan a refund operation may be initiated.

Another possible embodiment of the present disclosure may be a mobile payment device for mobile device payments using a mobile payment account. The mobile payment device may comprise a processor configured to generate a payment barcode or receive the payment barcode from an on line resource. The payment barcode may encode data of the mobile payment account.

The generated or received payment barcode may be displayed on a display of the mobile payment device. The displayed barcode may be scanned by a barcode scanner or a user device. The barcode may encode transaction information and information about a mobile payment account of the user. The information about the mobile payment account and or transaction information may be stored in a memory unit. The mobile payment account may be associated with the user information.

Provided also is a system for mobile payments between a seller and a buyer. The system may comprise a seller device a buyer device and a server of a mobile service provider.

The seller device may comprise a processor configured to generate a payment barcode. The payment barcode may encode data of the mobile payment account of the seller and or transaction information. The generated barcode may be displayed on a display seller device. The displayed payment barcode may be scanned the buyer device.

The seller device may further comprise a memory unit configured to store transaction information and data of the mobile payment account of the seller. The mobile payment account may be associated with seller information.

The buyer device may comprise a camera configured to capture an image of the payment barcode displayed for example on the display of the seller device. The image of the payment barcode may be processed by a processor of the buyer device and the transaction information and or data of the mobile payment account of the seller may be extracted from the image and transmitted the mobile service provider. In some embodiments the extracted information may be displayed on a display of the buyer device.

The server of the mobile service provider may comprise a processor configured to receive the transaction information and charge a mobile payment account of the buyer based on the transaction information. Information associated with the mobile payment account of the seller and the mobile payment account of the buyer may be stored in a database of the server of the mobile service provider.

In an example embodiment the processor of the system for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer may be operable to provide facilities for selection of a call mode and a payment transfer mode by the sender. Furthermore the processor may be operable to receive from the sender the selection of the call mode or the payment transfer mode. Upon selection of the call mode the processor may be operable to provide a call list and a list of recent calls and transactions. The processor may be operable to receive from the sender a selection of the recipient from the call list or the list of recent calls and transactions. Upon selection of the payment transfer mode the processor may be operable to provide a barcode via a display of the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender. The barcode may encode the payment data associated with the sender and an image of a sender face. The processor may be further operable to receive from the sender a selection of a data transfer mode. The data transfer mode may include scanning a barcode encoding payment data associated with the recipient selecting the recipient from the contact list stored on the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender and receiving the payment data associated with the recipient via Bluetooth. Furthermore the processor may be operable to provide data related to location of one or more stores associated with the mobile payment service. Selection of the call mode and the payment transfer mode is shown in detail on .

When the sender selects the icon on the screen a screen may be displayed. The screen may correspond to a My Card icon . A code such as a QR code may be displayed on the screen . The QR code may encode the payment data of a payment card of the sender a balance of the payment card and so forth. When the sender wants to make a payment transfer a Fund Transfer icon may be selected. Upon selection of the Fund Transfer icon a screen may be displayed. The screen may represent the current balance of the payment card of the sender. The sender may select a data transfer mode to receive payment data associated with a recipient to which the payment is to be transferred. For example the sender may scan a QR code associated with the recipient and encoding the payment data of the recipient. Furthermore the sender may select the recipient from the contact list or the list of recent calls and transactions. In an example embodiment the sender may receive the payment data of the recipient via Bluetooth. The sender may enter a name of the recipient and the amount of the payment to be transferred and select a Continue icon to finalize the payment transfer. Upon selection of a Store icon a screen may be displayed representing stores at which payment transfer via mobile and wearable devices is available.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Thus various systems and methods for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

