---

title: Method of encapsulating a phase change material with a metal oxide
abstract: Storage systems based on latent heat storage have high-energy storage density, which reduces the footprint of the system and the cost. However, phase change materials (PCMs), such as NaNO, NaCl, KNO, have very low thermal conductivities. To enhave the storage of PCMs, macroencapsulation of PCMs was performed using a metal oxide, such as SiOor a graphene-SiO, over polyimide-coated or nickel-embedded, polyimide-coated pellets The macro encapsulation provides a self-supporting structure, enhances the heat transfer rate, and provides a cost effective and reliable solution for thermal energy storage for use in solar thermal power plants. NaNOwas selected for thermal storage in a temperature range of 300° C. to 500° C. The PCM was encapsulated in a metal oxide cell using self-assembly reactions, hydrolysis, and simultaneous chemical oxidation at various temperatures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09493695&OS=09493695&RS=09493695
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09493695
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140121
---
This nonprovisional application is a continuation of currently pending PCT application No. PCT US2012 047165 filed Jul. 18 2012 which claims priority to provisional application No. 61 508 896 entitled Method of Encapsulating a Phase Change Material with a Metal Oxide filed on Jul. 18 2011 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DE EE0003590 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to thermal energy storage in phase change materials. Specifically the invention relates to metal oxide encapsulated phase change materials.

According to the World Bank U.S. per capita electrical consumption has exceeded 13 000 kW. Throughout the world electricity consumption was over 20 000 000 GWh yr in 2009. Traditional electrical generation through use of coal and other fossil fuels has increased due in part to the dwindling supply of resources. Low efficiency peaking power plants such as gas turbines are still employed for meeting high peak energy demands. However the electrical generation industry has begun providing lower cost off peak rates to change consumer usage to times where electricity may be produced at much lower marginal cost.

Ecologically friendly electrical generation has become more common as a means of reducing carbon emissions and reducing reliance on nonrenewable resources. Photovoltaic cells and concentrating Solar Power CSP are competing solar power generation technologies. CSP systems use lenses or mirrors to focus a large area of sunlight into a small beam which is used as a heat source for a conventional power plant. A working fluid is heated by the concentrated sunlight and is then used for power generation or energy storage.

Thermal energy storage technology saves energy provides economic benefits and makes possible the use of periodic energy sources such as solar energy. Solar energy is an inexhaustible source of future energy needs with a minimum of adverse environmental consequences Goswami et al. 2000 Principles of Solar Engineering Taylor and Francis Group New York . The energy storage is one of the best possible solutions to reduce the mismatch between supply and demand. Most current solar heating systems have storage for a few hours to a day s worth of energy collected by using thermal energy storage materials TESMs . Thermal energy storage TES helps overcome the intermittency of the solar resource for concentrating solar power CSP plants Dincer and Dost 1996 A perspective on thermal energy storage systems for solar energy applications International Journal of Energy Research 20 6 pp. 547 557 . TES systems contains a thermal storage mass and can be based on latent sensible and thermo chemical energy storage Sharma et al. 2009 Review on thermal energy storage with phase change materials and applications Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 13 2 pp. 318 345 Gil et al. 2010 State of the art on high temperature thermal energy storage for power generation. Part 1 Concepts materials and modellization Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 14 1 pp. 31 55 .

Among these energy storage types latent heat storage in phase change materials PCMs is very attractive because of high storage capacity and charging discharging heat at a nearly constant temperature require little maintenance can be produced at a range of temperatures and are easy to integrate into a power plant Abhat Performance studies of a finned heat pipe latent thermal energy storage system Proc. Mankind s future source of energy Proceedings of the International Solar Energy Congress Pergamon Press Inc. New Delhi India pp. 541 546 . There are several studies on storing solar thermal energy using PCMs Zalba et al. 2003 Review on thermal energy storage with phase change materials heat transfer analysis and applications Applied Thermal Engineering 23 3 pp. 251 283 Al Jandal and Sayigh 1994 Thermal performance characteristics of STC system with Phase Change Storage Renewable Energy 5 1 4 pp. 390 399 Baran and Sari 2003 Phase change and heat transfer characteristics of a eutectic mixture of palmitic and stearic acids as PCM in a latent heat storage system Energy Conversion and Management 44 20 pp. 3227 3246 Fouda et al. 1984 Solar storage systems using salt hydrate latent heat and direct contact heat exchange II Characteristics of pilot system operating with sodium sulphate solution Solar Energy 32 1 pp. 57 65 Morrison and Abdel Khalik 1978 Effects of phase change energy storage on the performance of air based and liquid based solar heating systems Solar Energy 20 1 pp. 57 67 Rabin et al. 1995 Integrated solar collector storage system based on a salt hydrate phase change material Solar Energy 55 6 pp. 435 444 Velraj et al. 1999 Heat Transfer Enhancement in a Latent Heat Storage System Solar Energy 65 3 pp. 171 180 Medrano et al. 2010 State of the art on high temperature thermal energy storage for power generation. Part 2 Case studies Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 14 1 pp. 56 72 Jotshi et al. 1992 Solar thermal energy storage in phase change materials SOLAR 92 American Solar Energy Society ASES Annual Conference Cocoa Beach Fla. pp. 174 179 . Stored solar thermal energy has the potential to provide cheaper peak demand power than any other energy source. In addition there are also a number of seasonal thermal stores which store summer energy for space heating during winter.

PCMs store heat using solid solid solid liquid solid gas and liquid gas phase change though only solid liquid change is used in PCMs for electrical generation and thermal energy storage. Solid liquid PCMs increase in temperature as they absorb heat until PCM reaches the phase change temperature melting temperature . At the phase change the PCM absorbs large amounts of heat with minimal temperature change until the material has transformed phase. When the ambient temperature around a liquid material falls the PCM solidifies releasing its considerable amount of latent energy. PCMs are widely used in the art because of the high energy storage density associated with the change of phase. PCM storage systems also have an advantage of being capable to operate with small temperature differences between charging and discharging.

In a latent heat energy storage system selection of the PCM is a very important task. Most investigations are focused on salt hydrates paraffin s non paraffin s inorganic acids clathrates and eutectic organic and inorganic compounds Lane 1986 Solar Heat Storage Latent Heat Materials CRC Press Inc Boca Raton Fla. . For example Lane Lane 1986 Solar Heat Storage Latent Heat Materials CRC Press Inc Boca Raton Fla. has compiled a list of the common PCMs for various applications. Inorganic compounds in general have a higher latent heat per unit volume and are non flammable and have lower costs in comparison to organic compounds Tyagi et al. 2011 Development of phase change materials based microencapsulated technology for buildings A review Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 15 2 pp. 1373 1391 Agyenim et al. 2010 A review of materials heat transfer and phase change problem formulation for latent heat thermal energy storage systems LHTESS Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 14 2 pp. 615 628 .

Many PCM systems rely on molten salt to retain the temperature. Molten salt can be employed as a thermal energy storage method to retain thermal energy collected by a solar tower or solar trough so that it can be used to generate electricity in bad weather or at night. With concentrated solar power the PCMs have been successfully utilized in electricity generation to allow solar power to provide electricity on a continuous basis such as Solar One Two and Tres. These molten salts like potassium nitrate calcium nitrate sodium nitrate lithium nitrate absorb and store the heat energy that is later released when electricity is needed by pumping the hot salt to a conventional steam generator to produce superheated steam for a turbine generator.

However there are some problems associated with PCMs. Salt based PCM solutions must be encapsulated to prevent water evaporation or uptake. One of the most significant drawbacks is that these materials have very low heat transfer characteristics and tend to solidify at the edges of the encapsulating container and preventing effective heat transfer. Moreover inorganic PCMs in general have low thermal conductivity 0.1 0.6 W m. K leading to low heat transfer rates and oxidation on exposure to heat transport medium air or heat transfer fluids like oils . In order to overcome such problems heat transfer enhancement techniques such as use of extended surfaces and dispersion of high conductivity materials have been identified and applied Jegadheeswaran and Pohekar 2009 Performance enhancement in latent heat thermal storage system A review Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 13 9 pp. 2225 2244 . Another technique to overcome the low heat transfer is to encapsulate the PCM within a secondary supporting structure and use of these capsules in a packed fluidized bed heat exchanger Hawlader and Zhu 2000 Preparation and Evaluation of a Novel Solar Storage Material Microencapsulated Paraffin International Journal of Solar Energy 20 4 pp. 227 238 .

No commercially available heat storage products possess heat transfer enhancement capabilities which would improve performance of low temperature devices. Enhancement of heat transfer in heat storage devices with a PCM typically use fins and Lessing rings from various materials and carbon fibers Kenisarin and Mahkamov 2007 Solar energy storage using phase change materials Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 11 9 pp. 1913 1965 . The disadvantage of their heat exchanger development is increasing the cost and complexity of thermal energy storage devices. In order to solve these problems both material investigation and heat exchanger development were performed. Based on the investigation of studies focused on both the cases it was observed and reported that one of the effective techniques is to encapsulate the PCM within a secondary supporting structure and apply the packed fluidized bed heat exchanger for better heat transfer enhancement Hawlader and Zhu 2000 Preparation and Evaluation of a Novel Solar Storage Material Microencapsulated Paraffin International Journal of Solar Energy 20 4 pp. 227 238 . Since the progress of latent heat storage systems mainly depends on assuring a high effective heat transfer rate to allow rapid charging and discharging the required heat transfer surfaces should be large to maintain a low temperature gradient during these processes. This can be achieved efficiently through the macroencapsulation.

Macroencapsulated PCMs refer to capsules larger than 1 mm Li et al. 2012 Fabrication and morphological characterization of microencapsulated phase change materials MicroPCMs and macrocapsules containing MicroPCMs for thermal energy storage Energy 38 1 pp. 249 254 . PCM macrocapsules are generally made by filling the PCM in preformed shells such as tubes pouches spheres panels or other receptacles and sealing them Cabeza et al. 2011 Materials used as PCM in thermal energy storage in buildings A review Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 15 3 pp. 1675 1695 . The most cost effective containers are plastic bottles high density and low density polyethylene and polypropylene bottles for low temperature storage tin plated metal cans and mild steel cans Regin et al. 2008 Heat transfer characteristics of thermal energy storage system using PCM capsules A review Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 12 9 pp. 2438 2458 Bauer et al. 2012 Characterization of Sodium Nitrate as Phase Change Material International Journal of Thermophysics 33 1 pp. 91 104 Farid et al. 2004 A review on phase change energy storage materials and applications Energy Conversion and Management 45 9 10 pp. 1597 1615 Chou T. P. Chandrasekaran C. Limmer S. Nguyen C. and Cao G. Z. 2002 Organic inorganic sol gel coating for corrosion protection of stainless steel Journal of Materials Science Letters 21 3 pp. 251 255 .

While these problem may be overcome by microencapsulation or molecular encapsulation of PCMs the encapsulation process may be expensive and difficult. Therefore what is needed is a thermal energy storage material composition which permits effective heat transfer without unyielding encapsulation.

Low cost thermal energy storage is essential for solar power to become viable in large capacities. The following are important features of a good thermal storage system high energy density good heat transfer a mechanically and chemically stable storage medium and minimum thermal losses. PCMs create an opportunity for storing large amounts of thermal energy in a small amount of material thus significantly reducing the costs. As such a thermal energy storage material which comprises an inorganic phase changing salt pellet such as a PCM listed in Table 1 encapsulated in a metal oxide. NaNOand other PCMs for use in a CSP application in the temperature range from 300 400 C. may be used. The phase changing salt pellet is optionally cylindrical spherical or oblong. However other shapes would be known to one skilled in the art with the advantages and disadvantages of different geometries of PCM encapsulation with different materials and their compatibility are discussed in the published literature Zalba et al. 2003 Review on thermal energy storage with phase change materials heat transfer analysis and applications Applied Thermal Engineering 23 3 pp. 251 283 Farid et al. 2004 A review on phase change energy storage materials and applications Energy Conversion and Management 45 9 10 pp. 1597 1615 . In some variations the cylindrical pellet has a porosity of 1 to 5 and the spherical pellet has a porosity of 22 to 29 . The macroencapsulated PCMs provides a self supporting structure and protects it from heat transfer fluids.

The phase changing salt pellet is optionally surface functionalized through hexane and silane functionalization.

The phase changing salt pellet optionally includes a void space within the phase changing salt pellet permitting the phase change material additional space during melting. For example the void space is optionally between about 15 to about 35 of the size of the phase changing salt pellet and can optionally be evacuated of ambient air.

Because the PCMs melt during heat absorption a high temperature polymer such as a polyimide stable at temperatures of over 500 C. is coated over the exterior surface of the phase changing salt pellet. In some variations the polyimide coating also includes an additive such as a nickel silicon carbide or carbon. A metal oxide or graphene metal oxide composite encapsulant is disposed on the exterior of the polyimide coating.

Metal oxide encapsulants include silicon dioxide titanium dioxide zinc oxide calcium oxide barium oxide titanium dioxide silicon dioxide composite cerium dioxide iron III trioxide aluminum III oxide magnesium oxide lithium cobalt dioxide lithium nickel dioxide zinc oxide zirconium dioxide lithium titanium oxide lithium aluminum manganese oxide lithium nickel manganese oxide lithium dimanganese tetraoxide indium tin oxide or combinations thereof. The encapsulant optionally includes grapheme in the metal oxide as a composite. Graphene is a one atom thick sheet of sp bonded carbon atoms in a honeycomb crystal lattice which is a current focus of materials science and condensed matter physics research Wu et al. Graphene metal oxide composite electrode materials for energy storage. Nano energy. 2012 1 107 131 . It is the thinnest known material in the world and conceptually a basic build block for constructing many other carbon materials. It can be rolled into one dimensional carbon nanotubes CNTs and stacked into three dimensional 3D graphite. With the addition of pentagons it can be wrapped into a spherical fullerene. As a consequence of its crystal structure any low energy quasiparticles in the material obey a linear dispersion relation. Graphene has the fastest electron mobility of 15 000 cmVcmor 10 cm a super high mobility of temperature independent charge and superior thermal conductivity of 5000 W mK.

The present invention is a novel nonobvious and useful method of encapsulating widely available low cost PCMs on a level scalable for mass manufacturing. The invention provides a cost effective and reliable solution for thermal energy storage. The thermal energy storage material is manufactured using an inorganic phase changing salt pellet such as a PCM or other phase changing salt noted above or below. The phase changing salt is optionally formed into a pellet using power press a pelletizer or wet granulation. In wet granulation the pellet is formed through agglomeration. A liquid solution or a granulating fluid was added to powders resulting in the massing of a mix of dry primary powder particles to form large sized particles. The fluid contains a solvent which must be non toxic yet volatile so that it can be removed by drying. Typical liquids include water ethanol and isopropanol either alone or in combination. In the power press method which is similar to the briquetting process dry powder is pressed between dies to produce pellets of required shape and size. Alternatively the briquetting method may be used to form the pellet. One advantage of this method is that it does not require binders and hence is suitable for PCMs that are hygroscopic. Optional formed shapes include cylindrical spherical and oblong though other shapes are envisioned. Optionally a void space was formed in the phase changing salt pellet prior to polyimide coating such as by drilling briquetting die casting the pellet with a void space or any other means known in the art. Where a void space was formed the void space was optionally evacuated of ambient air or pressure in the void space reduced by inserting a metal wire into the phase changing salt pellet during fabrication of the pellet heating the phase changing salt pellet removing the metal wire from the phase changing salt pellet permitting heated gases to escape from the void space and applying the polyimide coating to the phase changing salt pellet to seal the void space. The surface of the phase changing salt pellet was optionally functionalized by soaking the phase changing salt pellet in a solution of hexane and silane for 24 hours prior to applying the polyimide coating to the phase changing salt pellet.

The exterior of the phase changing salt pellet was coated in a high temperature polymer like polyimide. In some variations the polyimide was mixed with N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone and a plasticizer organic solvent and applied in a thin layer onto the phase changing salt pellet by dip coating spray coating or brushing. The polyimide optionally includes additives such as nickel silicon carbide or carbon and the polyimide cured for example at up to 250 C. for 2 hours.

The exterior of the polyimide coating was then encapsulated with a metal oxide or a graphene metal oxide composite. Exemplary metal oxide encapsulants include silicon dioxide titanium dioxide zinc oxide calcium oxide barium oxide titanium dioxide silicon dioxide composite cerium dioxide iron III oxide aluminum III oxide magnesium oxide lithium cobalt dioxide lithium nickel dioxide zinc oxide zirconium dioxide lithium titanium oxide lithium aluminum manganese oxide lithium nickel manganese oxide lithium dimanganese tetraoxide indium tin oxide or combinations thereof. In some variations a metal oxide precursor such as a sol gel silicon dioxide precursor like tetraethyl orthosilicate or tetraethyl orthosilicate containing grapheme is obtained and mixed with 3 aminopropyltriethoxy silane to form a silicate precursor and polyimide coated phase changing salt pellets placed into the silicate precursor. The silicate precursor is heated ethanol and hydrochloric acid added to the silicate precursor the silicate precursor neutralized with sodium hydroxide and the sol gel silicon dioxide precursor encapsulated on the polyimide coated phase changing salt pellet. The metal oxide coating is optionally cured at various temperatures ranging up to 250 C. such as 250 C. at a rate of 4 C. minute for two hours thereby forming a SiOshell on the pellet through self assembly hydrolysis and simultaneous chemical oxidation at various temperatures.

Provided herein is a thermal energy storage system with tunable operating range such as 300 C. 450 C. for NaNO based on encapsulated phase change materials PCM that can meet the utility scale base load concentrated solar power plant requirements at much lower system costs compared to the existing thermal energy storage TES concepts. Encapsulation of PCMs with a metal oxide contributes in achieving high temperature performance 300 C. 500 C. with cyclic performance capability. Suitable encapsulation methods were developed for existing low cost phase change materials that provide a cost effective and reliable solution for thermal energy storage to be integrated in solar thermal power plants. The novel technique of macro encapsulation provides a self supporting structure to the phase change material and separates it from heat transfer fluids and also increases the heat transfer rate.

As used herein about means approximately or nearly and in the context of a numerical value or range set forth means 15 of the numerical.

As used herein complementary means the elements are sized and shaped to allow at least one element from one complementary half to engage at least one element from the opposing complementary half.

As used herein evacuated of ambient air means a pressure below the ambient atmospheric pressure. Exemplary pressures may be low medium or high vacuum as seen in Table 2.

As used herein graphene is a one atom thick planar sheet of sp bonded carbon oriented in a honeycomb crystal lattice.

As used herein oblong means an elongated cylindrical or spherical shape. A nonlimiting example is an ovoid shape.

As used herein phase changing salt is an inorganic salt salt hydrate or eutectic having a high heat of fusion at its melting temperature.

As used herein porosity means the spaces in a material that is not occupied by the material. Such void space is typically occupied by other materials such as ambient air or other gases. The porosity is a percentage of the volume of void space over the total volume.

As used herein surface functionalized means a surface modified from its natural state through treatment.

NaNOwas used because of its low cost and significantly high latent heat compared to other PCMs that melt at similar temperatures of between 300 and 400 C. Bauer et al. 2012 Characterization of Sodium Nitrate as Phase Change Material International Journal of Thermophysics 33 1 pp. 91 104 . NaNOwas formed into cylindrical TESM pellets using appropriate dies in a bench top power press ranging from 13 to 30 mm diameter . Porosity of the cylindrical pellets varied with the pressure applied in the press and the diameter of the die from 1 to 5 depending on the size and pressure applied. All the measurements of porosity were performed with the aid of Sartorius YDK01MS apparatus.

Encapsulation of PCMs with a metal oxide SiO contributes in achieving high temperature performance 300 to 500 C. with cyclic performance capability. A technique was developed to self assemble a SiOlayer over the pellets Chou et al. 2002 Organic inorganic sol gel coating for corrosion protection of stainless steel Journal of Materials Science Letters 21 3 pp. 251 255 . This layer encapsulates the PCM which separates the PCM from the heat transfer fluid and provides the required strength to the capsules. However the self assembly process involves different solvents which may affect the pellet characteristics.

As such a precursor is coated initially on the pellet to protect the salt from dissolving. The reactivity of the solution with the molten NaNOplays an important role keeping in mind the sustainability of the NaNOcapsules over a large number of heating and cooling cycles. An intermediate PI coating renders the NaNOpellets insoluble in water and other solvents like ethanol isopropyl alcohol ether acetonitrile acetone etc. A high temperature polymer polyimide PI was coated onto the NaNOpellets and cured so that the pellet becomes insoluble in water as well as in several organic solvents. An issue arises with the physical characteristics of PI and NaNO because NaNOis usually hydrophilic whereas the PI is hydrophobic. Hence the interaction between these two oppositely characterized substances deteriorates the quality of the coatings. To avoid this problem the NaNOpellets were soaked in a solution of hexane and silane at a ratio of 1 10 1 20 or 1 30 ratio for 24 hours for example at 1 10. This process of silanization not only turns the NaNOsubstrate hydrophobic but also helps to cover the pores over the NaNOpellets. This increases the ability of spreading of PI over the NaNOsubstrates and provides a more uniform PI coating as the surface pores of the pellet were then covered prior to PI coating. The PI was then either dip coated or applied with brush over the pellets. Owing to the high viscosity PI cannot be sprayed. The curing process involved air drying for 1 hour followed by heating the pellet to 250 C. at a rate of 4 C. minute and dwelling for 2 hours at 250 C. thereby forming an intermediate layer of PI as seen in . NaNOpellets coated with PI after the silanization process were completely impervious.

A technique was developed to self assemble a SiOlayer over the PI coated pellets Chou T. P. Chandrasekaran C. Limmer S. Nguyen C. and Cao G. Z. 2002 Organic inorganic sol gel coating for corrosion protection of stainless steel Journal of Materials Science Letters 21 3 pp. 251 255 providing the additional strength required for encapsulation. Tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS silane ethanol hydrochloric acid HCl 0.25 M sodium hydroxide NaOH 1M were used in developing the SiOcoating. Initially TEOS was added to silane and mixed thoroughly. The ethanol sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid were kept separately in different beakers. Due to the presence of silane the TEOS self assembled on the NaNOpellets using secondary coatings of PI or Ni nanoparticles PI. The NaNOpellets in TEOS silane solution were heated at 200 C. on a hot plate which wetted the pellets. The TEOS and silane mixture was immediately treated by alcohol combined with HCl which hydrolyzed the TEOS immediately at high temperature. After 5 to 10 minutes the pellets were treated with NaOH and immediately transferred to a hot environment 250 C. using ambient atmosphere. A continuous reaction occurred at the molecular level between NaOH alcohol and TEOS as a result of which Si OH and later SiOwere formed. The surface reactions occurring during the formation of SiOin the presence of silane are seen by . A thin crust of SiOlayer with white color developed over the NaNOpellets which had prior PI and Ni nanoparticle coatings and a pellet with the respective coatings.

NaNOis used as a PCM and was formed into TESM pellets. Spherical pellets of different diameters 2 mm to 10 mm were formed using the Mars Minerals disc pelletizer. The porosity of the spherical pellets obtained from the pelletizer varied from 22 to 29 . All the measurements of porosity were performed with the aid of Sartorius YDK01MS apparatus.

Spherical pellets were alternatively made by agglomeration in a rotating drum. Water was sprayed at spaced intervals to help the powder form into balls as the drum rotated. However little control over porosity and size of the pellet was provided by this method.

As disclosed in Example 1 above a high temperature polymer polyimide PI was coated onto the NaNOspherical pellets by dip coating or brush application. The PI was cured by air drying for 1 hour followed by heating the pellet to 250 C. at a rate of 4 C. minute and dwelling for 2 hours at 250 C. as disclosed above. The SiOlayer was added to the pellets for encapsulation using tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS silane ethanol hydrochloric acid HCl 0.25 M sodium hydroxide NaOH 1M . A mix of TEOS and silane was added to the NaNOpellets and heated to 200 C. on a hot plate. Alcohol was added to the TEOS and silane mixture hydrolyzing the TEOS and the pellets treated with NaOH. The spherical pellets were immediately transferred to 250 C. oxidizing the later to form SiO.

Uniform coating of the phase change material pellet directly controls the stability of the pellet during cyclic heating. The SiOcoatings initially produced were occasionally highly non uniform. Highly viscous liquids like PI create difficulty in uniform application over NaNOpellets. Dip coating the precursor solution was found to product extra solution over the NaNOpellets which would protrude from the pellet after curing. During the curing process the viscosity of the solution reduces as the temperature increases and excess solution drips down the NaNOpellets. Hence a thorough application of the right amount of precursor solution is required.

Another concern which is identified to play an important role in determining the uniformity of SiOcoating role is surface roughness of the substrates. More rough surfaces are preferred in providing the uniform coatings. As the smooth PI coatings gives rise to non uniform coatings silicon carbide SiC is mixed with PI as an additive and the coating applied over the NaNOpellets to roughen the surface. At the lab scale the PI was applied over NaNOpellets by smearing with hand or brush. In order to ensure PI doesn t adhere to the substrate during the curing process Teflon substrate is used for curing. Also during the curing process i.e. heating to the pellets at 250 C. at the rate of 4 C. per min the NaNOpellet was rolled over the Teflon sheets so that the PI doesn t stick on the substrates and it gets coated uniformly. Instead of rolling the NaNOpellet over Teflon sheets another method considered was to give multiple coatings of PI over the NaNOpellets. Increasing the surface roughness of the substrates through use of SiC aided in providing more uniform coatings. The SiC also provided an extra advantage by giving additional strength to the encapsulating shell. Hence SiC 20 to 100 wt. of PI is used as an additive in PI.

The effectiveness of the phase change material encapsulation is the void space which provides for thermal expansion of PCM. Because NaNOpellets obtained from the power press possess porosity of only 1 to 5 depending on the force applied and the dimensions of the pellet the volume change of sodium nitrate from the solid phase to the liquid phase is reported to be about 10.7 Janz G. J. Allen C. B. Bansal N. P. Murphy R. M. and Tomkins R. P. T. 1979 Physical properties data compilations relevant to energy storage. II. Molten salts data on single and multi component salt systems No. NSRDS NBS 61 Pt.2 420 p . Therefore it is necessary to prepare the NaNOpellets with enough void space to take care of the expected volume change.

To address the volumetric expansion during the phase change an extra void space of between 15 to 35 was created by drilling holes in cylindrical pellets using endmills or a briquetting process. This provided an extra space to allow the expansion of air during melting. As seen in and phase change material pellet was made having an overall size 30 mm dia. and 12 mm height. Void space was defined by void base and void walls . Pellet lid having wall is complementary dimensioned to pellet lid lip thereby sealing void space . This formed void space of about 34 to 35 to account for the volume change during phase change material melting. Additionally a eutectic of LiCOand NaCOsalts or chloride salts were prepared and characterized having void spaces between 20 and 35 to allow for expansion of air during melting. The sizes of these pellets were in the range of 10 13 mm dia.

The phase change material pellets were encapsulated by depositing a primary layer of polyimide PI as discussed above which was followed by using self assembly reaction for depositing silicon dioxide SiO layer on top of the polyimide layer. The encapsulated pellets prepared using electroless deposition was tested for high temperature stability by heating them above the melting point of the PCM. The capsules were tested for cyclic stability by heating from room temperature to 350 C. at heating rate of 4 C. min a dwell time of 2 hours at 350 C. and then cooled to 280 C. thus completing the first cycle. It was found that the PCM leaked from the capsule after 3rd cycle for the capsules with PI silicon dioxide coating which is assumed to be caused by non uniform coating of PI silicon dioxide layer as the coating was performed manually. Therefore a mixture of PI and SiC silicon carbide was prepared and manually coated on the PCM pellet and followed by silicon dioxide coating. The mixture of PI SiC provided a rough surface for proper deposition of silicon oxide. The pellet was cured in the oven at 250 C. for 30 minutes. The capsule prepared in this manner survived for four cycles before leakage.

Experiments were also performed to reduce the air pressure in the pellets by inserting a metal wire during fabrication of the pellet followed by coating of the pellet with PI SiC and SiO. Phase change material pellets were formed as disclosed in Example 5 with the exception of a metal wire inserted into void base of each pellet. The void space was sealed and the phase change material pellets heated to 200 C. The wire was immediately removed and the pellet was sealed with PI SiC. The pellets were then cured as disclosed above and coated in metal oxide.

The cylindrical pellets eventually failed possibly due to stress concentration at the sharp edges. Therefore spherical pellets were prepared using hemispherical pellet halves having a void in the center by pressing the sodium nitrate powder in a die. Two spherical pellet hemispheres were formed with a diameter of 26 mm. Void walls define void having a diameter of 16 mm as shown in . Phase change material pellet was formed by fusing the two hemispheres together with any known sealant such as polyimide. To address air pressure in the void a pinhole was optionally drilled in one half of the pellet to permit air escape during and after heating as shown in . The drilled and undrilled hemispheres were joined together with a polyimide and silicon carbide mixture and the joint was cured in a furnace and allowed to sit in the furnace at high temperature. During this cure the pinhole was open which permitted air inside the void to escape at this higher temperature. After curing the pinhole was closed with the polyimide and silicon carbide mixture later which created vacuum in the sphere upon cooling. The pellets were then coated using a spray coating method. A PI SiC coating was diluted to lower the viscosity for the industrial process and applied. Due to the diluted PI solution some pellets with high porosity reacted with the solvent upon curing whereas some pellets did not react during the curing procedure. It was thought that the solvent had been taken out of these pellets during curing. During thermal cycling of the pellets it was found that the salt which had leaked out of the pellet was black in color indicating solvent was still present.

The reactivity of the PI with the molten NaNOplays an important role especially keeping in mind the sustainability of the NaNOcapsules over a number of heating and cooling cycles. The reactivity of the PI metal oxide coating with the NaNOis studied by characterizing the coatings using FTIR and SEM on different samples.

Pellets of potassium bromide KBr are used as KBr is transparent to IR radiation. A sample of KBr pellet was coated with the precursor solution and cured by heating to 250 C. and 300 C. The FTIR analysis indicated the absence of reaction between the KBr and the coating up to temperatures of 300 C. The test was repeated with NaNOand the coating material on a glass slide which confirmed that there is no reaction between the coating solutions and NaNO.

The readings for potassium bromide KBr were taken as it is transparent to IR radiation. A KBr sample was formed coated with PI and cured by heating to 250 C. and 300 C. The results obtained in the FTIR analysis as shown in indicate the absence of reaction between the KBr and the PI up to temperatures of 300 C.

To test the reactivity of NaNOwith PI another set of FTIR studies are performed. The samples were made by coating a glass slide with PI solution curing it and then melting the NaNOpowder refined grade on the PI coated glass slide. The change in the surface characteristics of the sample was compared with initial PI characteristics. From the C O and C N stretching modes between 1700 and 1800 cmcan be observed. Imide carbonyl band near 1720 1760 cmabsorbs strongly. Stretching region seen zoomed for clarity in indicates that in addition to ring closed imides some intermolecular links are formed but no reaction found with NaNO. The thermal stability of polymer is achieved by rigid aromatic rings and heterocyclic moieties into the polymer backbone.

The NaNOprills refined grade and the small particles of the compressed pellet were coated with PI and cured by heating to 250 C. at the rate of 4 C. per minute. The TGA was performed. The sample was loaded onto a balance and heated in a furnace to between 350 C. and 400 C. The results are presented in . G. indicates cycle 1 and refers to cycle 2. gives the overlay of heat flow in two cycles. These results indicate very minimum heat and weight loses recommending no reaction occurring between the molten NaNOand the PI also the minimum weight loss supports the idea that there are no reactions occurring which result in gaseous products formation. The weight loss present can be attributed to the moisture present in the NaNO as approximately same weight losses are observed with the plain NaNOsamples.

The coating of SiC and PI weight ratio 0.2 1 was applied to the spherical pellets prepared with the void space of about 34 . Nickel powder was used to seal the void and the NaNOpellets coated with multiple layers of PI and SiC. The pellets were cured by heating the samples to 250 C. at 4 C. per minute. After the samples are prepared they are heated to 350 C. and EDX and SEM results obtained.

The pellets were bombarded with an electron beam inside the scanning electron microscope ejecting some of electrons from the pellet sample forming a vacated electron position that is occupied by an outer shell electron. The emitted X ray from the high energy electron was measured thereby identifying atoms of the pellet. EDX results are shown in and they show the presence of only Na N O and C suggesting that no other element is present.

SEM imagery showed the elemental composition at the NaNO coating PI SiC and Ni interface. The interface showed a clean differentiation between the phase change material and the coating seen in . Analysis of the coated pellet indicated no other elemental composition was present except for the PI SiC Ni and SiOcoating and NaNOcore as seen in .

While it is noted that these tests indicate the coating solutions and the salt do not react during the test period the materials must be studies under extended cycling. However based on the tests performed it is anticipated that the coating solutions will not react with the salt.

The performance and efficiency of the encapsulation coatings was verified through heating and cooling cycles in a furnace as shown in . Testing of cylindrical NaNOcapsules prepared using the above encapsulation method were able to withstand up to 7 heating and cooling cycles with non uniformity of the coating the reason for early failure.

A novel encapsulation procedure for NaNO with a metal oxide such as SiO for use in a thermal energy storage system with an operating temperature range of 300 C. to 500 C. has been developed. The NaNOpellets were coated in polymer such as PI stable up to 500 C. and cured so that the NaNOpellets become insoluble in water as well as several organic solvents. The metal oxide is coated over such NaNOpellets with PI coating using self assembly hydrolysis and simultaneous chemical oxidation at various temperatures. The NaNOcapsules were characterized using FTIR TGA and SEM. These capsules were able to withstand up to 7 heating and cooling cycles. Upon examination the reason for failure was determined to be non uniformity of the coating. When incorporated in a TES system the encapsulated PCMs can result in a substantially lower cost storage system.

NaNOpellets were made either by using power press or by using a pelletizer with the final pellets having cylindrical spherical oblong or other geometrical shapes.

A polyimide PI 2525 or PI 2611 coating was applied onto NaNOpellets. The polyimide was mixed with varying amounts of N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone NMP which is a plasticizer organic solvent for one hour. A thin layer of the NMP and polyimide mixture was coated on the NaNOpellets by dip coating spray coating or brushing and cured at temperatures of 100 to 120 C. Later the pellets were heated to a temperature of 250 C. for two hours at a rate of 4 C. per minute thereby making the pellets insoluble in water and many organic solvents such as methanol isopropyl alcohol ether acetonitrile acetone etc. The insolubility of the salt is important for encapsulating the metal oxide in a liquid environment.

A SiOlayer was then self assembled over the surface of the PCM salt using the following chemicals tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS 3 aminopropyltriethoxy silane ethanol hydrochloric acid sodium hydroxide. Five to 10 ml of TEOS was added to 1 to 2 ml of silane solution and mixed thoroughly while 20 ml of ethanol 1M sodium hydroxide and 0.02M hydrochloric acid are kept separately in different containers. Due to the presence of silane TEOS was self assembled on the polyimide coating. The polyimide coated pellets were heated to 200 C. on a hot plate. The pellets were wetted by the TEOS and silane mixture. The pellets were then immediately treated by alcohol combined with 0.02M hydrochloric acid.

TEOS hydrolyzed immediately at a high temperature. The pellets were allowed to cool and then were treated with NaOH followed by immediately transferring the pellet to a hot environment with a temperature of 250 C. There is a continuous reaction at the molecular level with NaOH alcohol and TEOS formed Si OH and later SiO. A thin layer of SiOhaving white color eventually developed on the pellets. This procedure was repeated several times for obtaining the optimum thickness over the PCM pellets as seen in Table 3.

The method disclosed above may also involve a step of taking the polyimide coated pellets and further coating them with nickel powder by rolling the NaNOpellets over a nickel powder. The SiOcoating was then applied over the nickel coated polyimide NaNOpellets as discussed above.

Alternatively the SiOlayer may be replaced with a graphene SiOsol gel suitable to coat the NaNOpellets. Graphene was added to the SiOprecursor such as TEOS and the polyimide coated NaNOpellet was dip coated at room temperature into the sol gel. The sol gel coated pellets were allowed to dry at room temperature and later heated to 250 C. at a rate of 4 C. per minute. Upon reaching the curing temperature of 250 C. the polyimide was cured over the pellets for two hours.

Alternative exterior coatings may replace the SiOlayer over NaNO such as TiO ZnO CaO BaO TiO SiO CeO FeO AlO MgO etc. as coatings and various PCMs such as NaCl NaOH KOH CaCO NaCO KCl NaNO etc. as the pellets.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

While there has been described and illustrated specific embodiments of a thermal energy storage material it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

