---

title: Methods and systems for providing comprehensive cyber-security protection using an open application programming interface based platform solution
abstract: Methods of providing cyber-security services to a plurality of customers include providing a platform that includes a software program that is configured to run on a processor to implement a user interface that is accessible by customers. The software program includes an application programming interface that is configured to allow a platform operator and third party providers to offer computer implemented cyber-security services to the customers through the user interface. Integration standards for the application programming interface are provided to the third party providers, the integration standards specifying how the computer implemented cyber-security services can be integrated into the platform. First and second computer implemented cyber-security service that are provided by respective first and second of the third party providers are accepted into the platform, each of which is self-certified by the third party provider as being operable through the platform. The first and second computer implemented cyber-security services are then delivered to respective first and second of the customers through the platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338175&OS=09338175&RS=09338175
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09338175
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141124
---
The present disclosure relates generally to cyber security and more particularly to cyber security systems and methods that may provide comprehensive integrated cyber security threat protection.

Cyber security refers to measures that are taken to protect computer networks and computing devices such as computers servers and smartphones against cyber security threats such as efforts to gain unauthorized access to computer equipment or stored data or efforts to damage or destroy the same. The types of cyber security threats and the frequency of cyber security attacks is increasing as is the sophistication of the attacks. The types of cyber security threats now include for example attacks that are designed to gain unauthorized access to information stored on the computing devices denial of service attacks which use various means to render a computing device unusable and attacks which use the computing device for nefarious purposes such as sending out spam e mail viruses worms or the like. The purposes of these attacks may include for example disrupting the operations of a target organization stealing intellectual property financial information or credit card data identity theft committing corporate espionage and or outright sabotage of the organization s computing system and or network. Today s cyber security threats often involve advanced cyber crime syndicates sophisticated hacktivist groups foreign governments and other sponsored entities that utilize complex malware botnets and other techniques to improperly access or use another entities computing devices steal information therefrom and or to destroy such devices and or the data stored thereon. These cyber security threats may pose a significant challenge to cyber security programs used by many businesses and other organizations.

As the modern computing environment evolves to encompass mobility devices such as smartphones and tablets that are wirelessly connected to corporate networks remote access of network servers by employees working at home or other remote locations cloud storage and application services transitive partner connections and the like the traditional perimeter that businesses and other organizations have conventionally used for cyber security may no longer be adequate. As such critical infrastructure and data may be exposed to theft or destruction because the existing cyber security measures are incomplete outdated or delivered by segregated managed services without cohesive integration such that gaps exist that may be exploited by malicious entities. Accordingly improved cyber security approaches are needed.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the disclosure.

Some embodiments provide methods of providing cyber security services to a plurality of customers in which a platform that includes a software program that is configured to run on a processor to implement a user interface that is accessible by customers is provided. The software program includes an application programming interface that is configured to allow a platform operator and third party providers to offer computer implemented cyber security services to the customers through the user interface. Integration standards for the application programming interface are provided to the third party providers the integration standards specifying how the computer implemented cyber security services can be integrated into the platform. A first computer implemented cyber security service that is provided by a first of the third party providers is accepted into the platform where the first computer implemented cyber security service is self certified by the first of the third party providers as being operable through the platform. A second computer implemented cyber security service that is provided by a second of the third party providers is also accepted into the platform where the second computer implemented cyber security service is self certified by the second of the third party providers as being operable through the platform. The first computer implemented cyber security service is then delivered to a first of the customers through the platform and the second computer implemented cyber security service is delivered to a second of the customers through the platform.

In some embodiments the software program is stored in a memory and the processor comprises a server. In such embodiment the application programming interface may be configured to allow third party software programs that are controlled by the third party providers to interact with the software program to offer computer implemented cyber security services of the third party providers to the plurality of customers through the user interface.

In some embodiments a third computer implemented cyber security service that is provided by a third of the third party providers may be accepted into the platform where the third computer implemented cyber security service is self certified by the third of the third party providers as being operable through the platform. The third computer implemented cyber security service may include a module that is self certified by a fourth of the third party providers as being operable through the platform.

In some embodiments at least one non cyber security computer implemented service that is provided by a third of the third party providers may also be accepted into the platform where the at least one non cyber security computer implemented service is self certified as being operable through the platform.

In some embodiments an order for the first computer implemented cyber security service may be received from the first of the customers at the platform and this order may be transmitted to the first of the third party providers. Data generated by the first computer implemented cyber security service may then be received at the platform and transmitted to the first of the customers.

In some embodiments commissioning information for the first computer implemented cyber security service may be received from the first of the customers at the platform and this commissioning information may be transmitted to the first of the third party providers prior to delivering the first computer implemented cyber security service to the first of the customers.

In some embodiments the computer implemented user interface may include a web based marketplace that identifies the cyber security services that are available through the platform and at least one web based customer interface that is configured to allow one of the plurality of users to administer one of the cyber security services through the platform.

In some embodiments a third computer implemented cyber security service that is provided by the platform operator may be delivered to the first of the customers through the platform.

In some embodiments information regarding identified threats that is received from the platform operator and at least one of the third party providers may be collected at the platform. In some embodiments this information regarding identified threats is stored at the platform in a pre determined format that is specified by the integration standards for the application programming interface.

In some embodiments log data may be electronically received at the platform from a first of the plurality of customers and this log data may then be forwarded to at least the platform operator and one of the third party providers.

In some embodiments a non cyber security related service may be delivered to a first of the plurality of customers through the platform.

In some embodiments one of the third party providers may be a cyber security hardware vendor. In such embodiments an order may be received at the platform from one of the customers for an item of hardware offered by the cyber security hardware vendor through the platform. Additionally pre commissioning information for the item of hardware may be received at the platform from the customer.

Pursuant to further embodiments computer implemented platform for offering and providing a plurality of computer implemented services to a plurality of customers are provided that include a processor and a memory that includes computer program code. The computer program code when executed on the processor is configured to implement a user interface that is accessible by the plurality of customers over a network. The user interface includes a web based marketplace that identifies the computer implemented services that are available through the platform and that further implements for each customer that receives one or more of the computer implemented services through the platform a separate web based customer interface that is configured to allow the customer to administer the computer implemented services that they receive through the platform. The computer program code when executed on the processor is further configured to implement an application programming interface that allows a platform operator and plurality of third party providers to each offer a subset of the computer implemented services to the customers through the user interface and that allows the ones of the customers that order one or more of the computer implemented services to administer the ordered computer implemented services through the user interface. The computer implemented services are certified by the third party providers as being operable through the user interface.

Pursuant to still further embodiments methods for a platform operator to provide cyber security services and products to a plurality of customers are provided in which a platform is provided that includes a web based marketplace that is accessible by each of the plurality of customers the marketplace identifying the cyber security services and products that are available for purchase. The platform further includes a web based interface for each of the plurality of customers who purchases at least one cyber security services or products. Integration standards are provided for an open application programming interface for the platform to a plurality of unrelated third party providers. A first cyber security service that is offered by the platform operator is delivered to a first of the customers and a second cyber security service that is offered by one of the unrelated third party providers is also delivered to a first of the customers.

Other methods systems articles of manufacture and or computer program products according to embodiments of the invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail herein. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but to the contrary the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims.

Pursuant to some embodiments computer implemented cyber security systems are provided that use an open application programming interface architecture that enables seamless integration and delivery of a comprehensive set of cyber security services and systems to customers such as individuals businesses and other organizations. The cyber security services and systems may be provided by multiple service providers yet delivered to the customers through a common or integrated cyber security threat protection platform. The integrated threat protection platform may be designed so that customers may order desired cyber security services and systems through the platform and the ordered services and systems may then be pre configured initialized accessed and run through the integrated platform. By offering multiple distinct cyber security services through a single integrated platform including services and systems provided by different entities subscribers may order a comprehensive set of cyber security measures and more easily manage their cyber security program. Herein the entities that offer cyber security services and related equipment through the integrated threat protection platform are referred to as providers. 

In some embodiments a first entity the platform operator may provide and maintain the integrated threat protection platform and define and maintain the open application programming interface that is used to deliver services through the platform. The platform operator may also offer one or more cyber security services and or systems through the integrated threat protection platform. Additional entities may also offer cyber security services and systems through the integrated threat protection platform using the open application programming interface to deliver these services systems through the platform so that they may be ordered installed configured and or run through the integrated threat protection platform. These additional entities may self certify that their cyber security services and or systems are compatible with the open application programming interface and upon such self certification the platform operator may provide these additional entities access to the integrated threat protection platform. While entities may be allowed to offer services and systems equipment through the platform upon self certification the platform operator may control access to the platform and only allow approved entities access.

In some embodiments the integrated threat protection platform may be configured so that information regarding various cyber security threats may be shared between providers. For example a first provider that provides firewall services may uncover a new virus that is transmitted via certain e mail messages. The first provider may post information regarding this newly discovered threat into a data store provided via the platform that may be accessed by other providers. A second provider that for example provides threat protection for mobile users and assets may access information regarding this new threat from the data store and implement appropriate countermeasures thereto. Thus the integrated threat protection platform may also allow multiple providers to seamlessly share threat information using the open application programming interface of the integrated platform to provide more responsive and comprehensive cyber security threat protection.

By providing a mechanism whereby a plurality of providers may offer services and systems through a common platform the integrated threat protection platform may effectively operate as a two sided marketplace consisting of customers on one side of the platform who may purchase and run products and services through the platform and service providers hardware vendors and various other entities on the other side of the platform who provide cyber security products and services to the customers. Customers may find this arrangement particularly attractive as they can purchase and or subscribe to a wide variety of cyber security threat protection services through the platform and then administer all of these services through a single interface. The two sided marketplace potentially provides cyber security service providers vendors software developers and consultants access to a large base of potential customers providing incentives for such providers to conform their cyber security offerings to be run through the platform. Moreover the ability of the different cyber security services to share threat data and identify threats from a very large customer base may enhance the ability of various of the cyber security services to identify and neutralize new and emerging threats before they can cause significant harm.

Methods and systems for providing comprehensive cyber security protection to customers using an open application programming interface based platform solution will now be discussed in more detail with reference to the attached drawings in which example embodiments are shown.

Each traditional premise may be connected to the Internet or another public network . As shown in the connection to the network may be through a cyber security service provider . The cyber security service provider may provide a secure network gateway that protects the computing devices at the traditional premises from cyber security threats that are transmitted through the external network . The traditional premise may be connected to a plurality of other sites through a virtual private network . The virtual private network refers to protocols that the organization may use to extend a private network e.g. the network at traditional premise across a public network such as the Internet so that computing devices at the traditional premise may communicate with remote computer devices such as servers and memory storage devices and computers at the remote sites over the Internet as if the remote computing devices were directly connected to the private network . The virtual private network may only allow authenticated remote access and may use tunneling protocols data encryption techniques and other security measures to prevent unauthorized access to the virtual private network and to protect the confidentiality and integrity of data transmitted across the virtual private network . Multi protocol label switching techniques may be used to route packets across the virtual private network . These remote sites may comprise for example other traditional premises such as regional offices satellite locations and the like. As shown in the connection between the traditional premise and the remote sites may run through the cyber security service provider so that the cyber security service provider can monitor for and or control threats.

As is further shown in a plurality of mobile users and mobile devices may be connected to the traditional premises and other locations in the networked computer system via the Internet . The mobile users and assets may comprise for example smartphones tablets computers and cellular enabled computers that access the Internet through for example a cellular telephone network. A plurality of remote users and assets may likewise connect to the traditional premises and remote locations via the Internet . The remote users assets may comprise for example home computers or other computing devices that remotely access for example computers and servers located at a traditional premise using remote access software such as Remote Desktop or Citrix . The networked computer system may also include a cloud computing environment which refers to a network of remote servers and data storage devices that are hosted on the Internet that are used to store mange and process data as opposed to storing managing and processing the data on a server that is located at a site maintained by the organization such as the traditional premise or one of the remote locations . Finally the networked computer system may also access application and hosting sites over the Internet which refer to web based services that allow users to run software applications stored at remote locations on a recurring basis. With such services a qualified service provider maintains an application on its servers and a user can access and run that application instantly over a web based connection. The service provider is typically responsible for installing maintaining and upgrading the application for providing security with respect to the application and for ensuring that the application is made available on a twenty four hour a day seven day a week basis or some other pre defined schedule.

The cyber security service provider may provide a plurality of security systems that are designed to identify and neutralize cyber security threats to the organization. These systems may include for example intrusion detection services that identify unauthorized attempts to access a private network by real time analysis of all traffic through an interface for known attack signatures intrusion prevention services that provide advanced information regarding various types of emerging attacks viruses worms etc. so that such attacks may be filtered and eliminated before they reach an organization denial of service attack protection network monitoring tools network analytics and the like.

Most typically the threats to a networked computer system such as the system of are external threats generated by hackers criminals government agencies e.g. foreign government stealing classified information or intellectual property activists or other commercial entities. However internal threats must also be considered such as employees or contractors who are spies involved in criminal activities and or are generally disgruntled who may seek to steal information or destroy data or devices. The various locations where these threats may attack a networked computer system are illustrated in by the horizontal checkered ovals.

As is shown in both the cyber security threats to the networked computer system and the countermeasures that may be employed to address those cyber security threats are widely distributed. As a result information that is developed in countering the cyber security threats may also be widely distributed throughout the network and may be developed by software and hardware systems that are operated by different providers. This phenomena is illustrated in which uses shaded triangles to reflect locations where information regarding cyber security threats may be developed in relation to the networked computer system of .

Information that is developed regarding many cyber security threats may be critical in countering those threats. For example many worms computer viruses phishing e mails and denial of service attacks have readily identifiable signatures that if known allow communications associated with these threats to be identified as they pass through the network. If these signatures are known firewalls and software at for example the network and premise gateways see may identify and quarantine these communications before they gain access to for example private networks .

One difficulty that may arise in using information that is developed regarding various cyber security threats is that different providers that develop information regarding specific cyber security threats may not have an effective method for sharing the information. For example referring to a first provider that operates a network gateway may identify a signature for a new computer virus. A second provider may provide virus software that is downloaded with automatic updates to mobility devices such as smartphones and tablet computers that connect to the networked computer system . The first provider may have no mechanism to notify the second provider regarding the identified signature for the computer virus and hence mobility devices may become infected until such time that the second provider likewise identifies the computer virus and isolates a signature therefore.

In some embodiments the integrated threat protection platforms disclosed herein may include various data stores where providers can post information regarding identified threats. The open application programming interface for the platform may specify formats that may be used to post the information regarding the threats in these data stores so that the cyber security services and systems of other providers may automatically start responding to these threats once information regarding them is incorporated into the data store. As one simple example signatures for identified phishing e mails may be stored in a data store of the integrated threat protection platform by any of the providers who provide cyber security services through the platform or by a pre approved subset of such providers . The signatures may be stored in the data store using a format that is pre defined in the open application programming interface so that cyber security software of other providers may be programmed to automatically pull the signature from the data store and use it to enact countermeasures against this particular threat. Thus the open application programming interface may not only allow multiple providers to offer services to customers through a common platform but it may also be used to allow these providers to share cyber security threat information and to automatically use the shared information to quickly neutralize newly emerging cyber security threats.

Pursuant to some embodiments integrated threat protection platforms are provided that may provide greatly enhanced cyber security to customers such as businesses and organizations. is a block diagram of one such integrated threat protection platform . As shown in the integrated threat protection platform may host a wide variety of cyber security systems and services including for example security tools security intelligence security analysis security controls security management and security compliance . A wide variety of customers such as businesses and other organizations consumers professional consumers prosumers and other connected devices may access these security services .

As noted above the platform may operate under an open application programming interface . An application programming interface refers to a specification that sets forth how software components interact with each other and or with associated hardware. For example application programming interfaces are commonly used to specify how software programs access computer database or computer hardware. Application programming interfaces may also be used to obtain access to software. An open application programming interface refers to an application programming interface that is made available to a plurality of users so that all of the users may access a common platform system or software program. An open application programming interface may take the form of vendor documentation that specifies for example how external software programs may access hardware of a platform or system and software running thereon.

Referring again to it can be seen that a plurality of different entities or providers may use the platform to provide services and or systems to the customers . These providers may include for example service providers that provide subscription cyber security threat protection services to the customers . In addition other providers such as vendors software developers and consultants may also access the platform via the open application programming interface .

In some cases one of the providers may be an operator of the platform . For example one of the providers may build and or maintain the platform and allow other providers to have access to the platform as this may provide synergistic effects as is explained in detail further below. The platform operator may for example publish the specifications for the open application programming interface and may also control who does and does not have access to the platform . This access control may be used to ensure that individuals or entities who originate cyber security threats do not gain access to the platform as if they have such access it may be possible to neutralize or avoid various of the cyber security threat protection countermeasures provided through the platform and because it may be important to ensure that only quality products and services are offered through the platform .

As noted above select software developers may be provided access to the platform . Such software developers may develop code that may be integrated into more comprehensive cyber security threat protection packages that are offered by the various service providers . For example a software developer may produce a software subroutine that is designed to identify and neutralize a certain type of cyber security threat. The software developer may use the specifications of the open application programming interface to ensure that this sub routine will operate correctly when integrated into a software package that is run through the platform . A variety of different service providers may incorporate the subroutine into threat protection services that they offer through the platform .

Still referring to the vendors may comprise for example hardware vendors who do not provide subscription cyber security services but who sell hardware e.g. firewalls that are used in implementing cyber security services. By using the open application programming interface the hardware vendors may offer their products for sale to the customers through the integrated threat protection platform . Moreover customers who purchase hardware through the platform can provide necessary information e.g. pre configuration information to the vendors through the platform and may administer the purchased hardware through the platform . Moreover since the hardware is run through the platform cyber security threat data generated by the hardware may be readily made available to other cyber security threat protection services that are provided through the platform .

As shown in while the platform has the open application programming interface the platform operator may exercise access control over the platform . Consequently not just any provider may gain access to the platform but instead only providers that are approved by the platform operator . In this manner the platform operator may ensure that only reputable service providers provide services and systems through the platform and providers who do not meet this standard may be denied access or have their access revoked. Additionally the platform operator may also only allow providers access to the platform that provide services or equipment that compliment the services and equipment provided by the platform operator through the platform so that direct competitors of the platform operator may not use the platform to compete with the platform operator .

As is further shown in a plurality of customers may also access the platform . These customers may comprise for example businesses consumers and or professional consumers . Typically these customers will subscribe to one or more cyber security threat protection services offered by one or more of the service providers . The customers may also purchase hardware such as firewalls and the like from vendors through the platform see .

The customers may purchase cyber security threat protection services and related hardware systems through a marketplace . The marketplace may comprise for example a website that lists the services and systems that can be purchased and or delivered to customers through the platform including both services provided by the platform operator and services and systems provided by other third party providers through . Using the open application programming interface the third party providers through will have access to the marketplace so that they may list their products and services within the marketplace and provide associated information such as pricing customer reviews technical specifications installation instructions and any other materials that a provider would normally provide on their own commercial websites. The marketplace thus serves as a commercial website for a plurality of providers .

The platform further includes a web based customer interface . Each customer may access the platform through their own customer interface . Customers may use this interface to input information necessary for pre commissioning services or systems to review cyber security threat information provided by the service providers to access software patches and other information provided by the service providers and to otherwise manage their cyber security services. The customer interface may act as a unified interface that allows each customer to receive information from and provide information to all of the service providers vendors and any consultants . Thus individuals at each customer who are in charge of cyber security compliance may only need to learn and use a single interface to interact with all of their cyber security providers .

In many instances the various service providers who provide cyber security threat protection services to a particular customer may need access to the same information from the customer . For example servers switches firewalls routers and other computing devices at the customer may generate log data that identify potential security threats and the like. Customers who use the platform may transmit this log data to the platform a single time although it will be appreciated that this information will typically be forwarded to the platform on a periodic basis as these logs are constantly being updated . The platform may then be programmed to provide the specific portions of the log data that is required by each service provider . Thus the platform may reduce the amount of information that each customer may need to forward to its service providers as all of the information may be sent to a single place the platform where it is then distributed as needed to the service providers .

As shown in the log data and software updates and any other information that the service providers may forward to a customer through the platform will typically not pass through the marketplace or the web based customer interface but instead may be passed transparently. By way of example a service provider may periodically i.e. from time to time but not necessarily on a fixed schedule forward software updates for virus protection software that may be installed on various computing devices at a particular customer . These software updates may be transmitted to and installed on the computing devices at the customer automatically with no need for input from the customer and in a manner that is completely transparent to the customer if desired. Likewise the platform and or the service providers may automatically and transparently access the log data on the computing devices at the customers .

As is further shown in threat data may also be collected and stored at the platform . The service providers each will typically perform their own security monitoring security analysis and security intelligence functions and will typically do so for a large number of customers . As such each service provider may independently develop information regarding various cyber security threats. As new cyber security threats are constantly arising it will typically be the case that different service providers will identify different threats at different times with different service providers being better situated to identify various types of cyber security threats more quickly if at all.

Because an open application programming interface is provided in some embodiments the platform may be designed so that the service providers may share information regarding different threats that are identified. By way of example a firewall vendor may analyze data returned by a firewall and identify a new denial of service attack. The firewall vendor may post information regarding this newly identified threat to the platform and this information may be stored in the threat data store . In some embodiments the open application programming interface may specify the format as to how the threat data is stored in threat data store so that this threat data may be automatically accessed by other service providers and incorporated into their threat protection services. Thus the platform may provide a mechanism through which a first service provider may share information regarding a new or and emerging threat with the other service providers and the information may be provided in a way that the other service providers may automatically generate countermeasures for the newly identified threat. Thus for example a service provider who provides virus protection software for mobile devices may use the threat data posted by the firewall vendor to deploy countermeasures to the new threat at an earlier stage.

As noted above the platform operator may control access to the platform . However in some embodiments the platform operator may allow approved providers to self certify that the products and or services that they offer to customers through the platform are fully compliant with the platform and will run properly through the platform . Thus the platform operator need in some embodiments only provide the specifications for the open application programming interface and judiciously select the providers who are given access to the platform and need not test and pre clear services and products that are provided by other providers through the platform .

As shown in a customer may order a firewall from the hardware vendor through the marketplace and may provide data to the hardware vendor that is required so that the firewall may be properly configured when shipped to the customer . Once the firewall is installed either by the customer by the hardware vendor or another service provider the firewall can be commissioned and tested by the hardware vendor through the web based customer interface of platform . Once up and operating the firewall may be administered through the platform and may also provide information such as threat data to other providers that are operating through the integrated threat protection platform .

It will be appreciated that in some cases all aspects of a service may not be delivered through the integrated threat protection platform . For example a customer may subscribe to a threat monitoring cyber security service that is offered by a first provider through the integrated threat protection platform . The provider may work with the information technology IT department of the customer to determine the computing equipment that the customer is using and to ensure that this equipment is configured to forward appropriate information to the first provider through the platform . This process may be accomplished via telephone calls on site visits or the like and may ultimately result in the servers firewalls switches and other computing equipment of the customer being configured to automatically forward log data and other information to the provider . The provider may monitor the information that is received from this computing equipment and compare it to known threat information to provide alerts to the customer as needed. The provider may likewise send updates to computing equipment at the customer though the platform that are designed to counter identified and or emerging cyber security threats.

In some embodiments the platform operator may charge other third party service providers vendors and or consultants for access to the platform and the base of customers . For example in some cases the platform operator may already have a large base of customers purchasing cyber security threat protection services. Other service providers and vendors for example who offer complimentary products may desire access to this base of customers and certification by the platform operator that their products and services are endorsed by the platform operator . The integrated threat protection platform provides a mechanism whereby the platform operator may readily provide that certification and provide the other third party service providers and vendors access to the base of customers for a fee such as a royalty a fixed fee etc. Thus the platform may 1 serve as a revenue source for the platform operator 2 allow the platform operator to offer a more comprehensive set of services and equipment to its customers 3 provide an enhanced experience for the customers by providing access to multiple service providers and vendors through a single common user interface 4 guide customers to purchase complimentary services and equipment from approved vendors and service providers and 5 allow for the sharing of threat data between service providers and vendors so that may enhance the overall cyber security threat protection provided.

In some embodiments the services offered through the integrated threat protection platform may be expanded to include services that extend beyond cyber security services. Customers that rely on outside service providers for cyber security services may also often outsource other computing services such as asset management billing and customer care services and the like. As these customers become experienced in using the integrated threat protection platform for cyber security services a natural expansion is to offer additional services through the common platform so that the platform becomes a web based marketplace where customers can purchase hardware and subscribe to software services that are then delivered to the customers and administered by the customers through a common familiar interface . Third party service providers can fill in gaps in the suite of services offered by the platform operator . Many smaller customers such as small businesses and other organizations may find it very efficient to be able to purchase and administer all of their software needs through a common platform that eliminates the need for operators to become familiar with disparate user interfaces for a variety of different software packages.

As shown in in some embodiments methods of providing cyber security services to a plurality of customers are provided in which a platform operator may provide a platform that includes 1 a computer implemented user interface that is accessible by customers and 2 an application programming interface that is configured to allow a platform operator and other third party providers to offer computer implemented cyber security services to the customers through the computer implemented user interface block . The platform operator may also publish or otherwise provide integration standards for the application programming interface to the third party providers block . These integration standards may specify how the computer implemented cyber security services can be integrated into the platform.

A first computer implemented cyber security service that is provided by a first of the third party providers may be accepted and integrated into the platform. The first computer implemented cyber security service may be self certified by its provider as being operable through the platform block . Likewise a second computer implemented cyber security service that is provided by a second of the third party providers may be accepted and integrated into the platform block . The second computer implemented cyber security service may also be self certified by its provider as being operable through the platform. The first computer implemented cyber security service may be delivered to a first of the customers through the platform block and the second computer implemented cyber security service may be delivered to a second of the customers through the platform block .

Turning now to a method for a platform operator to provide cyber security services and products to a plurality of customers is illustrated. As shown in pursuant to this method a platform may be provided that includes 1 a web based marketplace that is accessible by each of the plurality of customers the marketplace identifying the cyber security services and products that are available for purchase and 2 a web based interface for each of the plurality of customers who purchases at least one cyber security services or products block . The platform provider may also publish integration standards for an open application programming interface for the platform to a plurality of unrelated third party providers block . A first cyber security service that is offered by the platform operator may be delivered through the platform to a first customer block and a second cyber security service that is offered by one of the unrelated third party providers may likewise be delivered to the first customer through the platform block .

The memory is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices. The memory can include but is not limited to the following types of devices cache ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory SRAM and DRAM. The memory may include one or more cyber security services that are offered and run by the platform operator through the data processing system . These services may take the form of for example software programs run on the processor that implement specific cyber security services such as for example monitoring services quarantine services detection services and the like for one or more customers. These software programs may collect information from the customers process this information and take appropriate actions such as quarantining potentially harmful communications to the customers raising alerts at the customers adjusting filters at the customers etc. The software programs may be updated on a regular basis as new and emerging cyber security threats are identified and countermeasures therefore developed. These updates may be manual or automatic updates.

The memory may also include one or more cyber security services that are offered and run by third party service providers who are granted access to the data processing system . These services may also take the form of for example software programs run on the processor that implement additional cyber security services in a manner similar to the services described above. While in the embodiment of platform operator services and the cyber security services that are offered and run by third party service providers are all shown as being stored in memory and run on processor it will be appreciated that the memory may comprise a plurality of memory devices that may not be co located and that the processor may likewise comprise a plurality of processors that are not co located with each other. Thus for example one of the third party services may comprise a software program that is stored on a remote memory and run on a remote server that delivers a cyber security service to a customer through the data processing system .

The memory may further include a software program that runs on the processor that implements the marketplace. The software program may be a conventional website program that is configured via the open application programming interface to allow various third party providers to include information regarding the products and services that they are offering through the system within the marketplace i.e. within the website that may be accessed by customers . The memory also includes software that runs on the processor that implements the customer interface for each customer. The memory may also store log data and threat data as described above.

The integrated threat protection platforms described herein may provide a number of advantages as compared to conventional approaches for providing cyber security threat protection services to customers. As discussed above by using an open application programming interface architecture cyber security services and systems from multiple providers and vendors may be seamlessly delivered to customers through a single platform that may be easier for the customers to understand and use. Additionally the open application programming interface facilitates service providers adding new services in the future that can be readily integrated into the platform and offered to customers. Moreover related services that may not necessarily relate to cyber security threat protection may also be integrated into the platform and offered and delivered to customers. Moreover where customers provide their own in house cyber security services to address particular threats that may be unique to a particular customer the open application programming interface architecture allows the customers to integrate these in house cyber security services into the platform or the platform operator may do the integration for the customer so that the customers may access and control all of their cyber security services through a common interface.

Customers also benefit from the availability of the integrated threat protection platforms according to some embodiments as to a customer the platform may appear as a marketplace where the customer may shop for all of the services necessary for protection against the cyber security threats that are relevant to the customer s operations. Moreover once such a customer subscribes to these services the services may be delivered to the customer through a common user interface that allows the customer to conveniently access and manage all of its cyber security systems through a single interface.

The open application programming interface also allows software developers hardware vendors and consultants to provide systems and services through the platform. For example hardware vendors that sell cyber security hardware such as physical firewalls and the like may offer such hardware to customers through the integrated threat protection platform. The open application programming interface allows such hardware vendors to market their products to customers through the platforms web based customer interface. Customers purchasing such hardware can provide necessary information e.g. pre configuration information to the vendors through the platform and may administer the hardware through the platform. Moreover since the firewall is run through the platform cyber security threat data generated by the firewall may be readily made available to other cyber security threat protection services that are provided to the customer through the platform.

Software developers may also generate cyber security threat protection programs that are designed to run on the platform through the open application programming interface. These programs may be sold or licensed to cyber security service providers and integrated into the cyber security services that these service providers offer through the integrated threat protection platform. By way of example a particular service provider may offer a cyber security service that protects data that is stored in the cloud from certain cyber security threats. Implementation of this service may require accessing cyber security related threat data that is stored at various locations such as at gateways or firewalls so that this data may be used to identify characteristics of certain types of threats to the cloud stored data. A software vendor may develop a program that runs under the open application programming interface to collect such data and various service providers may then purchase or license this program rather than building such a program from scratch. Thus software developers may make develop programs that may be shared by multiple service providers which may make it easier for these service providers to conform their cyber security services to operate through the integrated threat protection platform.

As yet another example some customers may need help from cyber security consultants who can analyze the performance of their overall cyber security program and identify when additional cyber security protection is required. Such consultants can develop software that allows them to monitor the cyber security services that are used by a particular customer to determine if it is providing a sufficient level of cyber security protection. Using the open application programming interface these consultants may develop software that allows them to remotely monitor the cyber security threat data generated by the cyber security services that a particular customer is currently using and other information regarding the customer s computer systems to determine if the customer is sufficiently protected. The integrated threat protection platform thus may provide an easy way for security consultants to deliver consulting services to customers.

The platform developer may maintain control of who has access to the platform and may thereby protect customers from low performing service providers scam artists and the like. However the platform developer may also allow trusted service providers to self certify that the products and or services that they offer through the platform are fully compatible with the platform. Thus the platform developer may avoid any need to test and validate third party products and services.

The platform may also provide synergistic effects as the platform may effectively operate as a two sided market environment consisting of customers on one side of the platform who may purchase and run products and services through the platform and service providers hardware vendors software developers and consultants on the other side of the platform who provide the products and services to the customers. The existence of a large customer base on the first side of the market provides incentive to vendors service providers and others to offer services through the platform as the platform provides a convenient mechanism to market these services to a target audience of customers. Likewise the ability to perform one stop shopping for a complete array of cyber security threat protection services that may be delivered to customers through a common interface provides incentive for customers to use the marketplace to shop for cyber security services and systems. Thus growth of one side of the marketplace encourages growth on the other side of the marketplace potentially leading to a continuous growth cycle. Moreover the platform provider may ultimately be able to charge service providers vendors consultants and others for access to the marketplace as access to a large base of potential customers may be very valuable to these entities. Moreover the platform provider is also in a position to limit the cyber security services that other service providers may provide through the platform to reduce competition with cyber security services that the platform provider may itself offer through the platform.

In some embodiments the platform operator or another entity may perform a comprehensive assessment of an entity s overall cyber security posture to identify areas where the entity s existing cyber security measurements are sufficient and areas where the existing cyber security measures are deficient incomplete or even non existent. Existing cyber security defenses can then be bolstered as necessary through systems and or services provided through the integrated threat protection platform and incomplete or missing security measures can be rectified in the same manner. The initial security assessment may include assessment of network architecture and security defenses penetration vulnerabilities security solution testing security compliance and governing posture business continuity and disaster recovery planning and security training and awareness programs.

Various example embodiments have been described above with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this disclosure and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the example embodiments discussed above may be embodied as a method data processing system and or computer program product. Accordingly some embodiments may be implemented entirely in hardware others may be implemented entirely in software and still others may be implemented in a combination of software and hardware. Some embodiments may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including for example hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the above described methods may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk or C . However the computer program code for carrying out these operations may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Some embodiments are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

