---

title: Method and apparatus for applying revision specific electronic signatures to an electronically stored document
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to methods and systems for applying electronic signatures to an electronically stored document wherein the electronic signatures are associated with a specific revision of that electronically stored document (revision specific electronic signatures).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542374&OS=09542374&RS=09542374
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09542374
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141006
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 396 069 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 856 640 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR APPLYING REVISION SPECIFIC ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES TO AN ELECTRONICALLY STORED DOCUMENT filed on Feb. 14 2012 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 355 098 now abandoned entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR APPLYING REVISION SPECIFIC ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES TO AN ELECTRONICALLY STORED DOCUMENT filed on Jan. 20 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to electronically stored documents and in particular to methods and apparatus that provide revision specific electronic signatures to electronically stored documents.

Generally an electronic signature when applied to an electronically stored document is an indication that a person who applied the electronic signature approves of or otherwise adopts the document. It is in other words electronic data that carries the intent of a signature. As such electronic signatures may provide verification to recipients of the document that the content has not been altered Integrity that the document is coming from a trusted or known person Authentication and or that the individual who has applied the electronic signature cannot deny the signature Non repudiation .

Briefly aspects of the present disclosure are directed to methods and systems for applying electronic signatures to an electronically stored document wherein the electronic signatures are associated with a specific revision of that electronically stored document.

As used herein an electronic signature is an electronic sound symbol or process attached to or logically associated with an electronically stored document that is executed approved or otherwise adopted by the applier of the electronic signature. The term electronic means relating to technology having electrical digital magnetic wireless optical electromagnetic or similar capabilities. A digital signature is but one type of electronic signature.

This SUMMARY is provided to briefly identify some aspects of the present disclosure that are further described below in the DESCRIPTION. This SUMMARY is not intended to identify key or essential features of the present disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of any claims.

The term aspects is to be read as at least one aspect . The aspects described above and other aspects of the present disclosure described herein are illustrated by way of example s and not limited in the accompanying drawing.

The illustrative embodiments are described more fully by the Figures and detailed description. The inventions may however be embodied in various forms and are not limited to specific embodiments described in the Figures and detailed description

The following merely illustrates the principles of the disclosure. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the disclosure and are included within its spirit and scope.

Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the disclosure and the concepts contributed by the inventor s to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.

Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Thus for example it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative blocks or elements embodying the principles of the disclosure. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudocode and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in a computer readable medium and so executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

The functions of the various elements shown in the Figures including any functional blocks labeled as processors may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in association with appropriate software. When provided by a processor the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared. Moreover explicit use of the term processor or controller should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software and may implicitly include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware network processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA read only memory ROM for storing software random access memory RAM and non volatile storage. Other hardware conventional and or custom may also be included.

Software modules or simply modules which are implied to be software may be represented herein as any combination of flowchart elements or other elements indicating performance of process steps and or textual description. Such modules may be executed by hardware that is expressly or implicitly shown.

It is noted that an electronic signature generally refers to a mark or other indicia of some sort that is imputed into an electronically stored document through electronic means. As may be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art an electronically stored document is any electronic media that may be used in either an electronic form or as a printed output. Electronically stored documents may be associated with for example word processing spreadsheets presentation graphics technical or architectural drawings or plain text among others. Electronically stored documents may exhibit any of a number of known formats.

Oftentimes a digital signature is used to implement an electronic signature. Digital signatures advantageously employ a type of cryptography and when properly implemented provide added assurances of provenance identity and status of an electronically stored document as well as acknowledging informed consent and approval by a signatory.

With reference to there is shown a schematic diagram depicting a prior art method for affixing an electronic signature to an electronically stored document. As depicted therein an electronically stored document is shown having a signature line for signing by an individual signor .

Generally a signature line in an electronically stored document looks like a signature placeholder that may appear in a printed document but operates differently. When a signature line is placed in an electronically stored document an individual may then apply his her electronic signature to the signature line to electronically sign the document.

As may be readily appreciated the electronic signature may be applied to the signature line in any of a number of ways. For example the individual may simply click on the signature line with a mouse or other input device and then use a keyboard or other input device to type a signature. Alternatively the individual may select and apply a digital image of his her signature or another alternative indicia. Still further the individual may actually sign the signature with a pen tablet touch input device not specifically shown .

Advantageously an electronic signature may be visible invisible or a combination of visible invisible. Additionally an electronic signature may include a cryptographic digital signature component as well. For the purposes of this description any electronic signatures shown in the Figures are depicted as a ribbon or certificate and is generally indicative of an electronic signature of any type described herein.

According to the prior art once an electronically stored document is electronically signed it is read only such that subsequent modification to the electronically stored document is prevented.

Turning now to there is shown a schematic diagram depicting a prior art method for applying multiple electronic signatures to an electronically stored document. As depicted therein an electronically stored document is shown having a number of signature lines for signing by a number of individual signers.

As may be readily appreciated an electronically stored document such as that depicted in may be for example an expense report spreadsheet prepared by Individual . In this exemplary scenario depicted in Individual prepares the electronically stored document i.e. expense report and in so doing creates three separate signature lines and in the electronically stored document namely one for herself one for her manager Individual and one for an accounting person Individual .

Operationally the signature lines and are indicative that Individual originated the electronically stored document and that no changes will occur in this electronically stored document as it moves to her manager Individual and subsequently to the accounting person Individual . Additionally such signature lines are used to verify that both the manager Individual and the accounting person Individual have received and reviewed the electronically stored document .

Accordingly after Individual originates the electronically stored document and applies her electronic signature she forwards it to her manager Individual . Once the manager Individual receives the electronically stored document she adds her electronic signature to the document confirming that she has reviewed it and approved it. She then forwards the electronically stored document to the accounting person Individual for electronic signature and payment. The accounting person Individual receives the document and electronically signs it with her electronic signature which confirms her receipt and approval and authorizes its payment.

As may be appreciated from this exemplary scenario depicted in multiple electronic signatures applied to a single electronic document have great utility. As noted previously however changes or revisions to the document are generally not permitted after that electronic signature of Individual is applied to the electronically stored document .

As may be further appreciated by those skilled in the art contemporary preparation of electronically stored documents may involve the collaboration of or coauthoring with of a number of people. This is particularly true for the preparation of an electronically stored document in a networked or cloud environment. Accordingly such an electronically stored document may proceed through a number of revisions or versions and in particular if that electronically stored document is modified by multiple collaborators or coauthors.

Revisioning or versioning is a known management technique for an electronically stored document that is changed over time. It is particularly useful in those situations in which a number of different persons or teams may make changes to the electronically stored document. Frequently it is used with respect to word processing as well as computer software source code version control programs.

Operationally changes made to an electronically stored document when revisioning is employed are oftentimes identified by a number or letter code termed the revision number revision level or simply revision . For example an initial electronically stored document or a set of files may be designated revision 1 . When a first change or set of changes is made to that initial electronically stored document the resulting document may be designated as revision 2 and so on. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that while the initial electronically stored document has been referred to as revision 1 it should be readily apparent that it could have been referred to as revision 0 or revision A etc. and any subsequent revision designations incremented and or updated accordingly.

In the context of electronic signatures as described previously it is noted that subsequent revisions to an electronically signed electronically stored document are not generally permitted in the prior art once an initial electronic signature is applied to the electronically stored document.

With these general principles in place we may now provide some non limiting illustrative examples that illustrate several operational aspects of various alternative embodiments of the present disclosure wherein revision specific electronic signatures are applied to electronically stored documents.

With reference to there is shown a schematic diagram depicting the application of a revision specific electronic signature to an electronically stored document according to an aspect of the present disclosure. As shown therein an electronically stored document is depicted as being prepared by and having a signature line for signing by an individual .

In this example shown in the individual prepares the electronically stored document at revision 0 and applies his electronic signature to the signature line .

Recognizing that a number of changes must be made to the electronically stored document after applying his electronic signature the individual makes changes to the electronically stored document such that a revision 1 of the document is produced.

As may be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art the electronic signature applied to revision 0 of the electronically stored document is not applicable to the changes that resulted in this revision 1 of the electronically stored document . According to an aspect of the present disclosure however the individual may apply another electronic signature to this revision 1 of the electronically stored document such that it too is electronically executed signed. In that regard electronic signature applied to this revision 1 of the electronically stored document is revision specific. More particularly electronic signature is specific to this revision 1 electronically stored document . Similarly electronic signature is specific to revision 0 electronically stored document .

As may be further appreciated by those skilled in the art each individual revision of an electronically stored document such as those illustratively depicted in may be associated with a timestamp and an identification of a person making changes. Persons making the change s may then advantageously apply a revision specific electronic signature to the electronically stored document. Revisions may then be advantageously compared restored or even merged with one another and the revision specific electronic signatures are maintained with respect to the particular revision.

It is noted that a variety of mechanisms may be employed to indicate to an individual who is revising a particular electronically stored document any status associated with a particular electronic signature. For example moving a cursor or other visual indicator over a particular signature may result in a pop up or balloon or callout which indicates any revision of the electronically stored document to which the electronic signature is applicable. Additionally an electronic signature that is applicable to an earlier revision of an electronically stored document but not a current revision may be greyed or otherwise visually indicative of its revision specificity.

Turning now to there is shown an additional example of an electronically stored document having revision specific electronic signatures applied thereto according to yet another aspect of the present disclosure.

In this particular example the electronically stored document is depicted as being initially prepared by individual and includes a number of signature lines and for signing by the individual and her manager . After initial preparation by individual the electronically stored document is at revision level 0.

In this example shown in the individual prepares the electronically stored document at revision 0 and applies her revision specific electronic signature to the signature line . The electronically signed electronically stored document is then forwarded to her manager for review and signature.

Upon review of the electronically signed electronically stored document the manager notices a number of changes that must be made to the electronically stored document . Advantageously and according to an aspect of the present disclosure the manager makes any necessary changes to the electronically stored document thereby producing a revision 1 electronically stored document . The manager then electronically signs revision 1 of the electronically stored document with his electronic signature .

As previously noted and according to an aspect of the present disclosure once a later revision is made to an electronically signed electronically stored document any previously applied electronic signatures are no longer effective applicable for that later revision. With respect to the present Example 2 depicted in the manager s electronic signature is effective for this revision 1 of the electronically stored document while the originator s revision 0 electronic signature is not.

Accordingly and while not specifically depicted in any of a variety of visual indicators may be used to visually identify the effectiveness of an applied electronic signature. For example an electronic signature that is no longer effective may be shown as greyed or dotted or ghosted or blinking or a combination thereof or other visual indicators.

Returning now to our discussion of and the Example depicted therein after manager applies his revision specific electronic signature to revision 1 electronically stored document it is then returned to originator for review and approval. Accordingly once originator reviews and approves this revision 1 electronically stored document she applies her revision specific electronic signature to the document . She may then forward it or not as her needs dictate. It is noted that according to an aspect of the present disclosure electronically stored documents may advantageously be viewed by one or more users in a viewing mode that shows highlights changes markup. In this manner any differences in the electronically stored document between revisions may be highlighted or otherwise identified to aid a user in review. Accordingly a subsequent reviewing user may observe review only those portions of an electronically stored document which has changed from a previous revision s and then apply an electronic signature as appropriate.

At this point it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the application of revision specific electronic signatures such as those depicted in this Example 2 may advantageously eliminate redundant reviews of electronically stored documents. For example after the originator applied revision specific electronic signature to revision 1 of the electronically stored document it did not have to return to the manager for review and approval.

With reference now to there is shown an additional example of an electronically stored document having revision specific electronic signatures applied thereto according to yet another aspect of the present disclosure.

In this particular example the electronically stored document is depicted as being initially prepared by individual and includes a number of signature lines and for signing by the individual and her manager . After initial preparation by individual the electronically stored document is at revision level 0.

In this example shown in the individual prepares the electronically stored document at revision level 0 and applies her revision specific electronic signature to the signature line . The electronically signed electronically stored document is then forwarded to her manager for review and signature.

Upon review of the electronically signed electronically stored document the manager begins making a number of changes to the electronically stored document . As noted previously upon making the changes the electronically stored document proceeds to a revision level 1 and as such the previously applied revision specific electronic signature applied by originating individual is no longer effective for the revision level 1.

Notwithstanding these initial changes the manager reconsiders his changes and subsequently changes the electronically stored document back to its revision level 0. According to an aspect of the present disclosure the previously applied revision level 0 signature applied by originating individual is once again effective. Consequently the manager now applies his revision specific electronic signature to this revision 0 document and forwards it or not as appropriate. The resulting electronically stored document depicted in this example is a revision 0 electronically stored document having two effective revision specific electronic signatures applied thereto namely and .

At this point we note that an additional aspect of revision specific electronic signatures as applied to electronically stored documents according to another aspect of the present disclosure. More particularly it is noted that when a revision specific electronic signature such as is applied to an electronically stored document it may advantageously be marked or otherwise identified as having a period of time during which it remains effective. That is to say an electronic signature such as may become stale upon the expiration of a pre determined period of time after which the signature is determined to be stale and therefore no longer effective. Advantageously such an expiration period may be set to any of a variety of user definable periods namely hours days weeks etc. In this manner once an electronic signature is applied to an electronically stored document subsequent reviewers may be urged to expeditiously complete their review execution before previously applied signatures expire. Notably and according to another aspect of the present disclosure upon the application of all required electronic signatures any pre determined expiration periods are disabled. In other words if all required subsequent electronic signatures are applied before the expiration of the pre determined period of time for a previously applied electronic signature then the expiration period for the previously applied electronic signature is disabled and the period of time is effectively an indefinite one and the signatures will always be valid and effective.

Notably color or other visual indicator may be used to indicate whether or not a particular signature is effective and or whether it is becoming stale. More particularly and by way of example only and in no way limiting a valid electronic signature that either does not expire or is not within a pre determined period of expiring may be displayed as green. Similarly an expired stale or otherwise invalid or ineffective electronic signature may be displayed in red. Finally an electronic signature that is within a pre determined period of expiring or becoming stale may be displayed in yellow. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other visual indicators are contemplated as well.

Shown further in this are several callouts or balloons and which may result for example when a cursor or other user input structure is hovered over the particular electronic signature. Alternatively such callouts may be invoked by touching a touch sensitive display device. As shown in this example the callouts provide information about the particular electronic signature and to which they are associated.

For example the callout associated with revision specific signature namely indicates the person who applied the signature the date time document and revision number of the document. Likewise similar information is viewable from callouts associated with later revision specific signatures namely and .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that revision specific information shown in callouts and associated with each of the revision specific electronic signatures depicted in this are not necessarily attached to or carried by the electronic signatures themselves. In this regard a specific electronically stored document may advantageously maintain store its revision information distinctly from information of the original document and associate a particular electronically stored document revision to a particular electronic signature. According to an aspect of the present disclosure then an association is made between the revision level of the electronically stored document and a particular electronic signature and that association may be maintained stored either by the electronically stored document itself the electronic signature or another electronically stored structure.

With reference now to there is shown the electronically stored document depicted in where the revision history is viewed as a callout in tabular form. As may be appreciated by those skilled in the art a right click or other enabling action may advantageously invoke such callout which by way of example only displays the revision number action taken when taken by who taken and whether or not an electronic signature was applied. In this manner subsequent reviewers can quickly and effectively assess a present status of the electronically stored document and in particular with respect to any electronic signatures.

With these aspects in mind we now disclose an exemplary scenario for attaching a revision specific electronic signature to an electronically stored document. Of particular interest and according to yet another aspect of the present disclosure revision specific electronic signatures may be applied to electronically stored documents via local devices i.e. personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs smartphones tablet computers and the like as well as via networks or via clouds.

With reference now to there is shown a series of illustrations depicting one of many possible ways in which revision specific electronic signatures may be applied to an electronically stored document. As depicted in that an electronically stored document is shown as having a signature line .

A user may then right click or otherwise indicate that a revision specific electronic signature is to be applied producing a challenge dialogue box into which the user inputs a password or other response to the challenge. If the response is acceptable according to some predetermined standard then the revision specific electronic signature is applied to the electronically stored document . Advantageously and as may be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art the challenge presented to the user may require a username or other indicia of user as well. Notably such user authentication may be provided by any of a number of known methods and input devices including keystroke mouse input biometric fingerprint RFID smartcard and the like.

Alternatively it is noted that in certain situations a user may be preparing the electronically stored document within a network or cloud computing environment not specifically shown . In such a circumstance and as can be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art a challenge i.e. username password or other authentication scheme i.e. challenge biometric etc. may have been employed to permit the user to access the network and or cloud.

Advantageously and according to yet another aspect of the present disclosure where a user has already provided sufficient authentication logged in credentials then applying the electronic signature may not require an additional challenge such as that shown in . In such a situation the user may just right click or otherwise indicate the application of an electronic signature for example via a check box a menu a dialogue box a checkbox pushbutton radiobutton etc. Notwithstanding this aspect however additional security characteristics may be achieved through the use of the challenges passwords described herein prior to applying an electronic signature and particular implementations may benefit from such characteristics. Accordingly the present disclosure is not limited to a particular user authentication credential scheme.

Advantageously an electronically stored document such as that depicted in may be stored locally or remotely in a network or cloud. Similarly any revision specific electronic signatures may be likewise stored and subsequently applied as individual users require.

Computer system includes processor memory storage device and input output structure . One or more input output devices may include a display . One or more busses typically interconnect the components and . Processor may be a single or multi core.

Processor executes instructions in which embodiments of the present disclosure may comprise steps described in one or more of the Figures. Such instructions may be stored in memory or storage device . Data and or information may be received and output using one or more input output devices.

Memory may store data and may be a computer readable medium such as volatile or non volatile memory. Storage device may provide storage for system including for example the previously described methods. In various aspects storage device may be a flash memory device a disk drive an optical disk device or a tape device employing magnetic optical or other recording technologies.

Input output structures may provide input output operations for system . Input output devices utilizing these structures may include for example keyboards displays pointing devices and microphones among others. As shown and may be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art computer system for use with the present disclosure may be implemented in a desktop computer package a laptop computer a hand held computer for example a tablet computer personal digital assistant or smartphone or one or more server computers which may advantageously comprise a cloud computer .

At this point while we have discussed and described the invention using some specific examples those skilled in the art will recognize that our teachings are not so limited. Accordingly the invention should be only limited by the scope of the claims attached hereto.

