---

title: Distress identifier to cause an action
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for providing digital dye packs and/or distress signals on a device user interface in connection with a transaction. In an embodiment, a system includes a communication module that interacts with a device having an input device that receives, from a user of the device, specific distress identifier information in connection with conducting a transaction via the device. The system also includes a non-transitory memory comprising a database storing specific distress identifier information with corresponding defensive actions that are executed based on the specific distress identifier information. The system further includes at least one hardware processor in communication with the non-transitory memory and the communication module for executing the defensive actions corresponding to the specific distress identifier information based at least in part on the specific distress identifier information received from the user of the device in connection with the transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501923&OS=09501923&RS=09501923
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09501923
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141124
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to transactions conducted over a device having a user interface and more specifically to using a device s user interface to provide specific identifiers or gestures to cause a corresponding action.

Currently users may conduct many types of transactions using various computing devices such as mobile devices kiosks such as ATMs etc. In many cases a user may be required to enter an identifier such as a password or a PIN for identification or security purposes in order to access a user account in connection with a transaction. However in certain questionable situations the user may become suspicious of potential threats or misuse of the user s identifiers. For example the user may suspect potential phishing or may be weary of a certain website or a certain ATM location etc. In these situations the user may be concerned about using identifiers that may compromise the user s identity or security. Thus users may not engage in transactions with recipients that are not trusted even when advantageous to them.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods are provided for using a user interface of a device to provide specific identifiers to cause a corresponding action. For example specific identifiers may be used in cases where recipients in a transaction are not trusted or to transmit a distress signal.

In various embodiments a user may conduct transactions over a device e.g. a mobile device a kiosk such as an ATM etc. such as shopping for items purchasing items communicating data applying for loans depositing or withdrawing funds etc. In that regard the device may include specialized hardware and or software allowing the user to conduct transactions upon entering a user identifier such as a password a PIN an account number a user name etc. However in certain questionable situations the user may not be confident about a recipient of the user s identifier or other user information in connection with the transaction. For example questionable situations may include situations where the user of a user device becomes suspicious of phishing such as when visiting a website or where a website or link may not appear to be legitimate or when a location of an ATM is in a convenience store in an out of the way place etc. In these types of situations the user may worry that any information that the user may enter into the device may be leaked and pose a threat to the user s identity or security. As a result the user may want to send an alert of a transaction s potential risk to a remote server. In an embodiment the remote server may be implemented by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. or eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA.

According to various embodiments herein the device may include an identifier application or module such that in certain questionable situations for example where a recipient in a transaction is not trusted the user may enter a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture via a user interface of the device. Modified or alternate identifiers or gestures may include a modified password or PIN a modified account number a modified user name a completely different identifier a specific gesture etc. For example the modified or alternate identifiers may include the regular or original identifier such as a password with an added prefix an added suffix one or more extra digits or characters embedded therein one or more digits or characters subtracted therefrom a set of completely new or different digits an accompanying gesture etc. In an embodiment key stretching may also be used for a modified identifier so that the modified identifiers with extra digits or characters may make automated actions by hackers or other untrusted recipients more difficult.

In an exemplary situation where a user is requested to enter a password or account number for conducting a transaction via a user device e.g. a mobile device and the user suspects phishing the user may enter a modified or alternate identifier via a user interface of the user device. For example the user s regular password may be modified to include two or three extra numerical digits before or after the original digits of the password.

As a result of the user s entering the specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture via the device s user interface the device may transmit an alert to a remote server that interacts with the device via respective communications components so that the transaction may be flagged or tracked differently than a transaction where a regular identifier is used due to the high risk designation. In that regard the remote server may track or monitor activities or processes related to the transaction including timelines locations payments etc. However the transaction may not otherwise fail. That is the transaction may proceed normally as long as related processes or activities are normal e.g. timely payments are made no misuse of identity is detected etc. . In cases where processes or activities related to the transaction are not normal the transaction may be ended or flagged as illegitimate. In an embodiment the user may request or confirm that an identifier should be invalidated.

As such in some embodiments the modified or alternate identifiers may act as digital dye packs that may use embedded data e.g. another string in block chain that may be used to track the transaction downstream.

Furthermore in various embodiments when a transaction is flagged the transaction may be bound by certain attributes or low liability limits. That is attributes or limits may be applied to the transaction such as limiting the transaction to a certain amount of money or for a limited period of time or a limited geographical location or be site specific etc.

As such in one or more embodiments transactions of low confidence may be flagged for tracking purposes due to a high risk designation. That is embodiments herein allow the user of a device to signal potentially risky transactions such that the user of the device may be empowered to let the remote server know of increased risk with respect to a transaction although in some situations it may turn out that the transaction is legitimate .

In various embodiments there may be a crowd sourcing aspect relating to the remote server where the remote server receives specific modified identifiers from many users in connection with a particular recipient i.e. an entity such as a merchant . In this regard transactions of multiple users may be marked and stored in a database where transaction records may be maintained. Multiple users have a record of transactions due to the specific identifiers acting as digital dye packs described in embodiments herein. Contingent logic may be created such that the modified identifiers may act as logical operators. For example a modified identifier having 2 added digits may indicate that no action is to be taken while a modified identifier having 3 added digits may indicate an action for example to send an email of a transaction even if no emails are usually sent. As such a distributed trust model may result with different users holding a record and notifying certain users of a transaction.

According to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a user of a device may determine that a situation involving a risky transaction warrants generating and sending a distress signal to the remote server. In this regard instead of just entering a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture as described above according to one or more embodiments the user may employ or rely on a distress signal such as a distress identifier or gesture to cause a defensive action. In various embodiments the user may rely on a certain way to enter an identifier. For example the user may enter an identifier at a certain overall speed or use specific pauses while entering the identifier or use specific pressure amounts or press device interfaces such as keys for a certain length of time e.g. for an extended time such as an extra 3 seconds or simultaneously press more than one device interfaces such as keys or use certain detectable gestures etc.

In that regard according to one or more embodiments the device may include technologies capable of detecting the various ways of entering identifiers for example light sensors accelerometers time devices etc. In other embodiments the device may include one or more biometric information signature detectors adapted to detect user biometric information such as fingerprints size of extremities e.g. size of thumb finger etc. retina information etc. For instance in an embodiment where the device includes a user interface having an input component that receives touch inputs the size of a fingertip of the user may be considered in conjunction with biometric information signature. In an example the user may use a thumb instead of a finger to enter information to cause the remote server to perform an action associated with receiving biometric information associated with the user s thumb.

Furthermore other external data such as environmental data may be used to determine risk in connection with conducting a transaction. In one or more embodiments herein the remote server and the user of the device may have pre agreed upon certain specific identifiers or signals e.g. modified or alternate identifiers such as the use of an extra digit the way an identifier is entered specific gestures etc. that indicate a risky transaction or a distress signal. But in addition to determine risk in connection with a transaction other external data at the time of the transaction may also be considered such as the time of day location hesitancy in entering digits or hesitancy in pushing interfaces such as buttons gestures detected that are off by an amount of a degree etc. This additional external data may not be pre agreed upon but may be considered to determine additional risk factors or be used as data points to enhance a risk model.

As a result of receiving a distress signal such as a distress identifier or gesture the remote server may take a defensive action with respect to the transaction. Actions may include limiting the transaction to accessibility to a particular account or subaccount locking down apps in a user device limiting the transaction to a certain dollar amount pulling funds from a certain account turning on location tracking and or a camera alerting the authorities etc.

In addition according to various embodiments the device may include an output device or component having a display component that may be customized based on a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture or a distress signal received from a user via a user interface. For example the display component may be customized to show a different landing page than the normal landing page for a site or an account of the user different profile pictures a limited amount of available funds limited personal information e.g. no personal address email or telephone numbers etc. Also a default view may be displayed differently to alert the user that a distress mode has been entered.

According to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a gradient of risk may be created. That is in some embodiments a user may alert the remote server that there is a potential risk with respect to a transaction but the risk may be low such that the transaction should go through and be flagged and tracked but it does not fail. In other embodiments the user may alert the remote server that the risk is high such that the transaction should not go through. As such the user may specify a risk gradient for a transaction. For instance a user at an ATM may trigger tracking of a transaction or may go to an extreme such as terminating a transaction or having the authorities called depending on the specific identifier or gesture that the user enters. In an example a user that is a victim of an attack such as mugging at an ATM may be forced to give out a PIN and in this case the user may give a PIN or enter the PIN in a certain way that is associated with a distress signal which is received by a remote server and results in the remote server calling the authorities. In another example where the user is at the ATM the user may enter via a user interface of the ATM a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture or may enter an identifier in a certain way that transmits a distress signal such that a display module of the ATM displays that the only available funds total 20. Preset information such as preset amounts may be determined and displayed in connection with certain specific identifiers for example the display may show that an amount of less than 500 is available if a certain modified identifier is entered or a certain gesture is detected. As such the specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture may become a tool not just a way for identification or authorization for a user.

In an embodiment the user may have further control when using specific identifiers such as modified or alternate identifiers or gestures. For example the user may control the identifier to set limits such as a time or a site limit. For instance the user may create a temporary password that is valid only for a week when the user is out of town or a temporary password for use during school etc. In another instance a user may use a modified identifier to access a subaccount. In this case the user may type an identifier such as a password and add a predetermined number of digits e.g. 2 digits after the password such as P4 Password plus P4 then as a result a subaccount may be debited that includes a specific bucket of money such as a party fund where money that is especially set aside for the party is found.

Advantageously according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a user of a device may be empowered to use specific identifiers or signals to cause certain actions associated with the specific identifiers or signals including to create a gradient of risk in connection with a transaction such that the user may send an alert of a potentially risky transaction or send a distress signal or use the specific identifiers as a tool.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure only and not for purposes of limiting the same shows an embodiment of a block diagram of a networked system suitable for implementing a process described herein according to one or more embodiments. Networked system may be adapted for providing specific identifiers such as modified or alternate identifiers or gestures that are to be used in cases where for example recipients in a transaction are not trusted. In other embodiments networked system may be adapted for providing specific distress identifiers to cause a defensive action.

In various embodiments system may comprise or implement a plurality of devices servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with one or more described embodiments. Exemplary device and servers may include device stand alone and enterprise class servers operating an OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable device and or server based OS. It can be appreciated that the devices and or servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such devices and or servers may be combined or separated for a given embodiment and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of devices and or servers. One or more devices and or servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

As illustrated in the networked system includes a device e.g. network computing device that may be operated by a user a recipient server or device that is associated with an entity and a remote server or device e.g. network server device in communication over a network .

User may utilize device to engage in transactions such as financial data or monetary transfers with recipient server or device associated with entity . User and entity may utilize remote server to complete the transactions between user and entity .

Device recipient server or device and remote server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Device and recipient server or device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication between device recipient server or device and or remote server . For example in one embodiment device may be implemented as a user device e.g. associated with user including a personal computer PC a mobile device such as a smart phone a laptop tablet computer a wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other types of wearable computing devices and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . In some embodiments where device is implemented as a user device e.g. associated with user such as a mobile device user may interact with recipient server or device for example via a Point of Sale POS terminal or device or a website controlled by entity associated with recipient server or device .

In other embodiments device may be implemented as an entity device that is managed or controlled by any suitable entity or other processing device e.g. associated with entity . In this regard where device is implemented as an entity device it may comprise a kiosk such as an ATM a Point of Sale POS device such as a terminal at an entity s physical location or a website of an entity or any other device having an interface wherein user may interact or conduct transactions associated with recipient server or device . Although only one device is shown interacting with recipient server or device more than one or a plurality of devices may function similarly.

Entity may be any entity including a merchant a financial institution a non profit organization a subscription service etc. However there may be cases where certain fraudulent entities may impersonate phish or otherwise try to conduct illegitimate transactions associated with a recipient server or device.

Device and recipient server or device may be used for engaging in transactions such as purchasing bidding transferring data or funds etc. between user and entity associated with recipient server or device . For simplicity any similar components of device and recipient server or device are discussed together with respect to . However it is understood that implementations of device and recipient server or device may include the same similar and or different components in various embodiments.

Device includes a user interface application module an identifier application module an input device module an output device module other applications a database and a communication module . User interface application module identifier application module and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments device may include additional or different software as required.

Device in an embodiment includes user interface application module which may be utilized by user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding withdrawing or depositing funds or items etc. with entity associated with recipient server or device or with remote server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to user via the user interface application module .

In one implementation user interface application module comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with remote server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application module comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application module may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network . In another example user is able to access entity websites via the recipient server or device to view and select applications products and or services items for purchase and user is able to purchase items from recipient server or device via remote server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more items from one or more entities associated with recipient server or device via remote server . In yet another implementation user interface application module may comprise a module that is utilized as part of a kiosk such as an ATM for interactions between user and the kiosk including depositing or withdrawing funds or other items.

Identifier application modules may correspond to an application that stores identifier information for user and entity associated with recipient server or device respectively. For example where device is a user device such as a mobile device of user identifier application module may include identifier information associated with entity while identifier application may include identifier information associated with user device . Thus identifier application module provides an interface to identify store view and utilize to transmit communications or conduct transactions between user and entity . Such identifier application module interface may be presentable to user through an output device module of device such as a display module. Identifier application module may store identification or security information to a non transitory memory of user device recipient server or device in the form of user account numbers passwords PINs names addresses phone numbers email addresses user account names or other information. The identification or security information may be sufficient to allow user to be identified such that communications or transactions with entity associated with recipient server or device may be conducted. In various embodiments where remote server comprises a payment provider server the identification or security information may have identifying information for a payment account with the remote server .

In an embodiment identifier application module may receive identifier information for example in connection with a payment account financial information etc. from user using an input device module via user interface application module of device . The identifier information may be transmitted or communicated via a communication module and received via a communication module of recipient server or device and or a communication module of remote server .

In addition to displaying identifier information e.g. a user account name or a password that may or may not be displayed in an encrypted form via output device module identifier application module may also display information or details about a transaction. According to embodiments herein identifier application module of device may include processes that may be executed to allow user to enter or input specific identifier information such as modified or alternate identifier information including gestures using input device via user interface application module of user device display identifier or transaction information or details on output device of user device and communicate transmit information via communications module .

In various embodiments device may include or be a part of any device that includes input device which may be adapted to receive inputs comprising identifier information from user in various ways for example via a touch screen a keyboard a keypad gesture recognition audio or voice recognition etc. As such in some embodiments input device includes non touch gesture recognition that is where non touch gestures may generally be captured by sensors or technologies other than touch screen gesture interactions. For example non touch gesture recognition may be done via ultrasonic gesture detection image or video capturing components such as a camera depth sensor IR ultrasonic pen gesture detection etc. Input device may comprise vision based gesture capabilities that use cameras or other image tracking technologies to capture a user s gestures without touching the device i.e. non touch gestures such as a hand pose in front of a camera or may have capabilities to detect non touch gestures other than vision based capabilities.

As such user may enter information including identifier information along with any transaction details via input device and the entered information may be received by entity via communication module of recipient server or device . Also specific identifier information such as modified or alternate identifier information along with any transaction details may be received by remote server via communication module of remote server . In that regard the modified or alternate identifier information may alert remote server to flag or keep track of a transaction associated therewith or to take another action as will be described in more detail below according to one or more embodiments.

In situations where user does not trust or may be suspicious of entity associated with recipient server or device identifier application module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules of device to provide a convenient interface in identifier application module to provide an option or permit user to enter or input a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate user identifier in connection with a transaction. Identifier application module may utilize specialized hardware and or software of user device to determine whether identifier information associated with a transaction is modified or alternate so that an action may be determined for example whether the modified or alternate identifier is sufficient to initiate a transaction with entity or if the modified or alternate identifier may indicate that the transaction should be terminated or if output device module should modify a display or any other action based on the received identifier information.

As such identifier application module may utilize identifier information to find an account with remote server or another financial account. Identifier application module may also provide an option for a user to enter a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture which may be used to identify the user in a transaction. In cases where user decides to use the option to use a specific identifier user may use input device of device to input information into an identifier field. In an embodiment identifier application module may auto populate the identifier field with an identifier for user stored to device such as a name a device identifier an encoded password or PIN and or payment account identifier information. The identifier information along with any transaction information such as payment account information may be stored by identifier application module with user device for example in database . Thus identifier application module may access database to retrieve the identifier information and enter it in an identifier field. Once user has entered identifier information identifier application module may initiate where appropriate a transaction by a communication to recipient server or device and or remote server . In an embodiment identifier application module may also cause a digital wallet to be identified and displayed by device where user may select a payment instrument for use in the transaction and or manage previous transactions.

As such in an example if user wishes to initiate a transaction with entity but user suspects that entity is not to be trusted user may enter specific identifier information such as a modified identifier in identifier application module via input device and cause communication module of device to communicate the specific identifier information to remote server over network . Furthermore in some embodiments identifier information may be communicated to remote server for retrieval by receiver server or device when receiver server or device accesses user s account with remote server .

Device may include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. In embodiments where device is implemented by a user device other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with remote server . Other applications may include browser applications enabling device to access websites and or receive information from one or more online sources or from entity via recipient server or device . Additionally other applications may include social networking media applications including microblogging applications. Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Database of device may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with identifier application module and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for transaction user device authentication or identification. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used by recipient server or device and or a payment provider for example associated with remote server to associate device with a particular account maintained by entity and or remote server .

In various embodiments database may further include user information data to access user accounts such as payment account information for a payment account with remote server . Thus database may include user personal information e.g. a name social security number user financial information or other identifying information a user account identifier and a user device identifier. In various embodiments database may include online account access information. Database may also store identifier information and or transaction information including transaction histories such as financial transactions. Database may include transaction histories stored for later use.

In various embodiments device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with receiver server or device via communication module and or remote server via communication module over network and or directly. Thus communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of direct wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication components. Communication module may communicate directly with another nearby device using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications. Thus communication module may include various specialized short range communication modules that may connect with nearby devices.

Remote server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment service to a user. Also remote server includes one or more processing applications which may provide specific identifiers or gestures that correspond to an action for example that are to be used in cases where recipients in a transaction are not trusted. In one example remote server may be a payment provider server provided by PAYPAL Inc. or eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. In other embodiments remote server may be maintained by or include a merchant financial services provider and or other service providers which may provide identifier services to user . Remote server may additionally provide use of accounts for use in connection with one or more transactions.

Remote server of includes a transaction processing application other applications a database and a communications module . Transaction processing application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments remote server may include additional or different software as required.

Transaction processing application may execute one or more modules of remote server to receive and or transmit information between device and recipient server or device for processing and completion of transactions between user and entity such as payments. In various embodiments transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture entered by user in connection with a transaction with entity . In that regard received identifier information may be compared to identifiers that have been pre agreed upon between user and remote server as set forth for example in Table 1 of which will be described in more detail below according to one or more embodiments. Based on the comparison the remote server may take an action that corresponds to the received identifier information. For example transaction processing application may flag and track the transaction with entity as a result of receiving the specific identifier entered by user . Remote server may complete the transaction for example it may credit and post a payment amount to an account of entity but may keep track of the transaction for example for a predetermined amount of time such as one month from the time of the transaction to determine that payment is confirmed. In other embodiments depending on the received specific identifier entered by user remote server may terminate the transaction or perform a defensive action as in a distress situation. Additionally transaction processing application may cause database to store transaction histories including receipts to complete or retain a history of the transactions.

In various embodiments remote server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to remote server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Additionally remote server includes a database . As previously described user may establish one or more user accounts with remote server . User accounts in database may include user identifiers in connection with one or more recipients for example respective passwords PINs user names user account numbers and the like. Also in various embodiments database may store pre agreed upon specific identifiers that include specific identifier modifications or gestures which correspond to certain respective actions. For example specific identifiers that may be predetermined to be used in connection with recipients that may not be trusted.

In addition user accounts in database may include user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data.

User and entity may link user and entity recipient accounts to device and recipient server or device through a device identifier. Thus when a device identifier corresponding to device or recipient server or device is transmitted to remote server e.g. from device and or recipient server or device an account belonging to user and or entity may be found. Database may further store transaction details corresponding to user and or entity and or transaction history for completed transactions.

In various embodiments remote server includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with network including device and or recipient server or device . In various embodiments communication module may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

As described above according to one or more embodiments a user of a device may have an account which is stored in a database maintained by the remote server. The user and the remote server may enter into a pre agreement to determine or set up specific identifiers such as modified or alternate identifiers or gestures for use in situations that the user perceives to be risky. For example a modified identifier may be a password with two digits or characters added either at the beginning or at the end of the password which may correspond to flagging and tracking a transaction. Also a gesture may be added such as a hand signal or a key pressure for a certain amount of time.

For example in column a regular or original identifier may be a password CAT but when a modified password is received having an added prefix such as 123CAT as shown in column the modified password indicates an alert for the transaction to be flagged and tracked due to a high risk designation as shown in column . In the same manner going down columns and when the regular password CAT has an added suffix such as CAT123 the modified password indicates that the transaction should have limits such as up to an amount of 500 for a period of one week or within a 30 mile area. When the regular password CAT is substituted by an alternate password DOG the alternate password indicates that a device should display minimal information e.g. no personal information or that there is a minimum amount of total available funds. When the regular password CAT and a pattern is detected for example the regular password CAT is followed by a pause and then a suffix 123 and also the user uses a thumb instead of a finger to enter the password the modified identifier entered in a certain pattern as well as biometric information related to the user s thumb may indicate a distress signal which results in a pre agreed action such as limiting accessibility alert authorities lockdown apps in a user device turn on location tracking and or camera etc.

In another example with respect to Table 1 of a username JDOE may be modified by subtracting one or more digits or characters at the beginning or the end of the username. For example username JDOE may have a subtracted character 0 which then becomes JDE . This modified user name may send an alert to flag and track a transaction. In another example username JDOE may have an added suffix P4 such as JDOEP4 which may indicate that funds for a transaction should be pulled from a subaccount for example funds for the transaction should be pulled from a party fund set up for a special occasion party. In yet another example where user name JDOE is entered such that extra pressure is applied on the character D plus a gesture is also entered for example a hand gesture such as a fist this may indicate a distress signal. It should be appreciated that the examples of Table 1 in are for illustrative purposes only and there may be many ways or combinations of specific identifiers and or ways to enter identifiers that are within the scope of the present disclosure in order cause an action such as alerting the remote server to flag or track a transaction sending a distress signal etc. For example adding a suffix to a password or an account number may indicate a distress signal or entering identifier information with a thumb instead of a finger may indicate a limitation of funds during a vacation etc.

Referring now to a flow diagram is shown illustrating a method for providing specific identifiers for certain transactions from a device side according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. is a flow diagram illustrating a method for providing specific identifiers for certain transactions from a remote server side according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The methods illustrated in may be implemented by the system illustrated in according to an embodiment. Also it should be noted that one or more steps processes and methods described herein may be omitted performed in a different sequence or combined as desired or appropriate.

In the embodiment illustrated in a process for providing specific identifiers to cause an action may occur between a device side and a remote server side. As described above according to one or more embodiments a user of a device may have an account with a remote server wherein the user and the remote server have a pre agreement to use specific identifiers to cause certain actions by the remote server with respect to one or more transactions. For example the user may enter specific identifiers that are pre agreed upon in cases where a recipient entity in a transaction is not trusted.

In block of when a user that may wish to conduct a transaction with an entity or a recipient for example via a device such as a user device or a kiosk e.g. ATM a vending device etc. the device may be adapted to receive user inputs including user identifier information such as a user name a password a PIN a user account number gestures biometric information etc. For example in an embodiment where the user does not trust a recipient in a transaction to receive the user s inputs or information the user may have an option to enter a specific identifier such as a modified or alternate identifier or gesture.

In blocks and a certain action may be caused based upon the user entering a specific identifier. Specifically in block the device is adapted to transmit an alert to a remote server to flag and track the transaction based on the specific identifier entered by the user of the device. For example the user may enter a modified password having two extra digits at the end of the password. Such modified password may correspond to a pre agreed upon password that causes transmission of an alert to the remote server to flag the transaction for tracking due to the high risk designation.

Or as in block upon the user entering a specific identifier the device is adapted to transmit a distress signal to the remote server to cause a defensive action based on the specific identifier. For example the user may enter a password in a certain pattern for example with specific pauses or pressure amounts or with certain gestures. Such specific identifiers or gestures may cause the remote server to terminate the transaction immediately limit accessibility to an account lockdown apps in a user device turn on location tracking and or camera alert the authorities etc. In other embodiments a distress signal may cause the device to customize a display component to show a different landing page different profile pictures limited account attributes such as a minimal amount of available funds in an account etc. A default view may also be displayed that is different to alert the user that the distress mode has been entered.

Or as in block the user may enter a specific identifier on the device such that the specific identifier is used as a tool instead of just for identification or security purposes. For example a specific identifier may be set up to correspond to certain attributes or limits for a transaction or an account such as time limits when a transaction may occur e.g. for a limited vacation time or for certain locations e.g. on a school campus . In other examples a specific identifier may be set up to correspond to certain subaccounts such than when the corresponding specific identifier is entered funds for a transaction may be pulled from the corresponding subaccount.

Referring now to in block on the remote server side the remote server receives the specific identifier that is entered by a user on a device in connection with the transaction. As described above according to one or more embodiments the remote server may maintain a database having user accounts including information on pre agreements between a user and the remote server assigning certain specific identifiers such as modified or alternate identifiers or gestures to corresponding actions.

In block upon receiving a specific identifier in connection with a transaction the remote server may cause an action based on the received specific identifier. For example the remote server may flag and track a transaction or may cause a defensive action when the specific identifier indicates a distress situation or may impose limits on the transaction or account.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting interfaces such as keys from a keypad keyboard one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio visual input output component may also be included to allow a user to use gestures audio or voice for inputting information by converting associated signals. Audio visual I O component may also allow the user to hear audio. Also one or more biometric information signature detectors may be implemented as part of I O component or for detecting user biometric information. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another device a recipient device or a remote server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

