---

title: Profile and consent accrual
abstract: Consent management between a client and a network server. In response to a request for consent, a central server determines if requested user information is included in a user profile associated with a user and if the user has granted consent to share the requested user information. A user interface is provided to the user via a browser of the client to collect the requested user information that is not included in the user profile and the consent to share the requested user information from the user. After receiving the user information provided by the user via the user interface, the service provided by the network server is allowed access to the received user information, and the central server updates the user profile. Other aspects of the invention are directed to computer-readable media for use with profile and consent accrual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092637&OS=09092637&RS=09092637
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09092637
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140429
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of computer network environments. In particular embodiments of this invention relate to easily accruing user information used by related applications or sites that are affiliated with a multi site user authentication system.

Web sites or Internet sites often provide information products services and the like to their users. Many web sites desire users to register before their web servers will grant access to the users. During registration a user typically supplies personal information such as username account number address telephone number e mail address computer platform age gender and or hobbies to the registering web site. The registration information may be necessary to complete transactions e.g. commercial or financial transactions . Typically the information also permits the web site to contact the user directly e.g. via electronic mail to announce for example special promotions new products or new web site features. Additionally web sites often collect user information so web site operators can better target future marketing activities or adjust the content provided by the sites.

When registering a user for the first time a web site may request that the user select a login identifier or login ID and an associated password. The login ID allows the web site to identify the user and retrieve information about the user during subsequent user visits to the web site. Generally the login ID is unique to the web site such that no two users have the same login ID. The combination of the login ID and password associated with the login ID allows the web site to authenticate the user during subsequent visits to the web site. The password also prevents others who do not know the password from accessing the web site using the user s login ID. This password protection is particularly important if the web site stores private or confidential information about the user such as financial information or medical records.

Using a presently available multi site user authentication system a web user can maintain a single login ID and associated password for accessing multiple affiliated web servers or services. Such a system permits the user to establish a unique account identified by for example an e mail address.

Large Internet service providers often have many different web sites through which they offer services to consumers. Moreover a single web service can actually be made up of many different content providers. Other sites may be used to provide content related to children s interests e shopping news and so forth. Consumers usually perceive these related sites as being essentially the same service. Further as Internet usage migrates to a subscription based model that includes content and services from a variety of different sites the need exists for accurately sharing common information e.g. billing and subscription information between related sites.

As described above a web site often gathers personal information about its users for later use. A typical privacy statement for a web site describes how the site protects and uses personal information. The policy will likely specify first what information the site collects. For example the site may maintain a profile for the user including information attributes such as the user s e mail address first and last name country or region state or territory ZIP code or postal code language preference time zone gender birth date occupation telephone number s credit card information billing and shipping addresses password PIN secret question and secret answer clothing sizes music preferences and the like. Inasmuch as this profile information can be quite sensitive the typical policy also specifies how the information will or will not be used. For example a web site s privacy policy may forbid the site from selling or renting a user s personal information without prior consent. The same policy however may detail a number of permitted uses e.g. resolving customer support inquiries performing statistical analyses of the site s services conforming to legal requirements protecting the personal safety of users or the public . A typical policy often specifies certain circumstances under which disclosures or uses of information are permitted and those other circumstances under which they are not.

Users typically do not like to provide too much information during a first time sign up or registration. If asked to provide more information than needed for sign up or registration the users may provide inaccurate information in order to speed up the registration process. Such inaccurate user information undermines the purpose of having a profile store.

Furthermore there has been an increasing movement in local federal and international governments to require web sites to provide consumers explicit notice and choice in order for the consumers to grant affirmative consent for the sites to use the obtained consumer information. Prior systems and methods do not effectively address such consent requirements.

Another disadvantage of the prior systems and methods is that there is no mechanism for web sites to collect the same information from users. In other words web sites get differing amounts of information depending on which users access the web sites. As a result web sites are forced to collect the missing user information manually or to limit the service features for users who have not provided the necessary information.

Accordingly a solution is needed that allows accruing consent for an affiliated site or service to use obtained user information while complying with the various consent requirements.

Embodiments of the invention overcome one or more deficiencies in the prior art by providing among other things improved sharing of information among related sites. Information accrual may be deferred to the time when the users see the relevance of information collection according to embodiments of the invention. For example a user is more likely to provide accurate information regarding a style of car desired when visiting a car buying site than if asked for the same information during initial registration of an unrelated site. A user profile according to one embodiment of the invention effectively stores user specific information that identifies a user with respect to one or more sites or services. When the user visits a particular site service the site service may desire some information regarding the user. One embodiment of the present invention effectively determines if the desired information is stored in the user profile. If the desired information is not stored in the user profile embodiments of the invention advantageously provide a user interface UI to accrue the desired information from the user. If the user grants consent for the site service to use the accrued information embodiments of the invention effectively provide the accrued information to the site service. Embodiments of the invention also advantageously provide intention information retention information and privacy policy associated with a particular site service for the user to decide whether to grant consent to share the desired information with the site service. Moreover the features of embodiments of the present invention described herein are less laborious and easier to implement than currently available techniques as well as being economically feasible and commercially practical.

Briefly described a method employing aspects of the invention manages consent between a client and a network server. The client and the network server are coupled to a data communication network. The network server provides a service to a user via the client. And the client operates a browser configured to permit the user to communicate on the data communication network. The method includes maintaining a user profile associated with the user. The method also includes receiving a request from the service provided by the network server for user information associated with the user and for consent to use the requested user information. In response to the request for consent the method includes determining if the requested user information is included in the user profile. The method also includes providing a user interface via the browser to collect the requested user information that is not included in the user profile from the user. The method further includes receiving the user information provided by the user via the user interface. The method further includes allowing access by the service to the received user information.

In another embodiment of the invention an authentication system employing aspects of the invention includes an authentication server coupled to a data communication network. The authentication system also includes an authentication database associated with the authentication server. The authentication database is configured to store authentication information for comparison to login information provided by a user for authenticating the user. The authentication database is further configured to store user specific information identifying the user with respect to one or more services provided by at least one affiliate server coupled to the data communication network. And the affiliate server is configured to provide the one or more services to the user via a client coupled to the data communication network. The authentication server is configured to receive a request from the user for a service to be provided by the affiliate server. The authentication server is further configured to authenticate the user responsive to the request when login information retrieved from the user via the data communication network matches the authentication information stored in the authentication database. And the authentication server is further configured to maintain a user profile storing the user specific information to receive a request from the requested service for user information associated with the user and consent to use the requested user information to determine in response to the request for consent if the requested user information is stored in the user profile. The authentication server is configured to provide a user interface to collect the requested user information that is not stored in the user profile from the user to receive the user information provided by the user via the user interface in response and to allow access by the requested service to the received user information.

In yet another embodiment of the invention computer readable media employing aspects of the invention have computer executable components for managing consent between a client and at least one network server. The client and the network server are coupled to a data communication network. And the network server provides a service to a user via the client. The computer readable media include a profiling component for storing user specific information associated with the user. The computer readable media also include a consent component for receiving a request from the service provided by the network server for user information associated with the user and for consent to use the requested user information. The consent component is further configured to determine in response to the request for consent if the requested user information is stored in the profiling component. The computer readable media further include a user interface component for collecting the requested user information that is not included in the profiling component from the user. The consent component is configured to receive the requested user information provided by the user via the user interface component and to allow access by the service to the received user information.

Computer readable media having computer executable instructions for performing methods of managing consent embody further aspects of the invention.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an exemplary network environment in which embodiments of the present invention may be utilized for managing permissions and user profile information. Embodiments of the invention relate to cross internet collaboration between web sites as part of for example a distributed multi site user authentication system. Such services provide a user with the ability to access one or more participating web sites or resources with a single sign in. Although the participating sites referred to herein as affiliates or affiliate sites maintain control over permissions they use the authentication service rather than hosting and maintaining their own proprietary authentication systems. The related sites or services are referred to herein as a service group or shared services group because they represent a group of independent sites IDs that together provide a user with a set of services. Shared services groups however need not employ the same policies regarding permissions. As used herein policy group or consent group refers to a predefined group of sites or applications generally that have a shared permissions set that is they share a common set of permission standards e.g. a common privacy policy .

As a part of the single sign in service the user can choose to store information in a user profile. Typical user profile information attributes includes name address gender occupation preferred language credit card information billing address shipping address telephone numbers and the like. At the user s option the sign in service makes all or part of the user profile information available to participating sites visited by the user. In one embodiment the user is redirected from the sign in service back to the desired affiliate site with an encrypted authentication ticket and profile information attached. This enables affiliate sites to customize and enhance user experience without having to prompt for information.

In one or more client computer systems are coupled to a data communication network . In this exemplary embodiment of the invention the network is the Internet or the World Wide Web . But the teachings of the present invention can be applied to any data communication network. Multiple affiliate servers are also coupled to network . The affiliate servers may be referred to as web servers or network servers generally.

A central server coupled to network allows communication between itself client computer systems and web servers . In operation one or more client computer systems can access affiliate servers via network . Although sometimes referred to as an authentication server login server or profile server in connection with the central server in the illustrated embodiment is also a web server capable of interacting with web browsers and other web servers. In this example server client computer systems and web servers communicate data among themselves using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP a protocol commonly used on the Internet to exchange information.

The sites of affiliated servers may exhibit the privacy statement of the hosting service which indicates that they are under the auspices of the same policy and thus changes made to data usage will impact the sites. Nevertheless a particular content provider s policy could be changed without affecting the policy of the related services.

Although database is shown in as a single storage unit separate from central server for convenience it is to be understood that in other embodiments of the invention database may be one or more memories located within or separate from server . In a federated environment for example a plurality of servers may be used to provide authentication shared services management policy and permissions management and the like.

The server as described herein may be part of an authentication system that authenticates a user of client computer seeking access to a particular one of the affiliate servers . In this embodiment server first requests authenticating login information from the user such as the user s login ID and password. If the user is successfully authenticated the server of routes the user s client computer to the appropriate affiliate server for performing a desired service for the user.

In one embodiment an affiliate server is a web server that has registered or otherwise established a relationship or affiliation with central server . A particular affiliate server includes a code sequence not shown that allows the affiliate server to communicate with server when a user who is also registered with server requests access to affiliate server . Additional details regarding an exemplary authentication process and the interaction between client computer affiliate servers and server are provided below.

Before executing the authentication process both the user of client computer system and the operator s of affiliate servers register with server . This registration is a one time process that provides necessary information to the authentication system. According to one embodiment of the invention this registration also provides the user with his or her first opportunity to grant consent for the sharing of certain personal information. The user of client computer system registers with server by providing information about the user and or client computer system such as the user s name mailing address and e mail address. As part of the user registration process the user is assigned or selects a login ID which is a common login ID used to access an affiliate server e.g. server . The login ID may also be referred to herein as a username member name or login name. 

Additionally the user selects a password associated with the login ID that is used for authentication purposes. After registering and logging into server the user can visit an affiliate server i.e. affiliate servers that are also registered with the same authentication server without additional authentication and often without reentering user information that is already included in the associated user profile. One embodiment of the present invention sets forth identifying the user account or profile by a unique account identifier.

The central server of i.e. the authentication server in this embodiment validates the username password provided by the user. Server handles the authentication response by comparing the login data to the entries in database . If the username and password match an entry in the database the user is authenticated. A unique identifier e.g. Passport Unique Identifier PUID and a user profile corresponding to the authenticated user are extracted from the database. In this embodiment when a user registers an account the account is assigned a PUID that becomes the unique identifier for the account. The PUID is for example a 64 bit number that the authentication server sends e.g. encrypted to affiliate servers as the authentication credential when the user signs in. This unique identifier makes it possible for the sites to determine whether the user is the same person from one sign in session to the next.

When the user later visits an affiliate server after central server assigns a unique identifier to his or her account the affiliate server may desire the user to submit certain user specific information in order to allow the user access to its contents or services. In this embodiment of the invention affiliate server may first request the user specific information from central server . After receiving the request from affiliate server central server may access database to obtain a user profile associated with the user. If the user profile associated with the user already includes the user specific information requested by affiliate server central server may communicate the requested user specific information to affiliate server without prompting the user to submit the information. On the other hand if the requested user specific information is not included in the user profile central server may provide a consent UI to the user via a browser of client computer system . This consent UI includes open fields for the user to enter the requested user specific information. If the user enters and submits the requested user specific information to central server via the consent UI then he or she is allowed access to the contents or services provided by affiliate server . In addition central server will allow affiliate server access to the submitted user specific information. Central server will further update the user profile with the submitted user specific information. As can be seen this embodiment of the invention advantageously allows a service to incrementally accrue consent to use information associated with a user during the user s experience with the service.

A service requesting user specific information may belong to one or more administrative groups. Generally administrative groups support the scenarios in which a user who has authority over the authorization settings or permissions of one or more other users. Such groups include for example parents managers users who control multiple credentials and domain space administrators. One of several administrative groups a service group comprises site IDs representative of related sites on the network that work together to provide the user with a consistent set of services. Members of a service group however need not share the same privacy statement. When this is the case the user typically consents to the sharing of user provided data with a particular policy group represented within the service group. There should be a contractual arrangement providing the user with a known set of services.

One such situation is when a network of Internet services provides premium content through an affiliated site. Operational information that may be maintained by one site but accessible to both the one site and another related site indicates that the user has for example a premium content subscription. This information allows the user to move between content providers without having to re authenticate or prove membership as a premium content subscriber. Further multi company corporations can be represented as a service group when they do not share a corporate privacy statement. This might be when a financial company owns both banks and insurance companies and it wants the user to be able to move between the different companies without having to re authenticate or prove membership.

On the other hand a policy group comprises sites services that operate under a shared privacy or other permissions policy. The policy group which is another form of administrative group implements first time login consent scenarios. By grouping applications such as particular web services having the same privacy policy an embodiment of the invention allows a user to grant consent to share information with members of the policy group the first time the user signs in to a member of the group. If a particular site does not share a privacy statement with another site then its site ID can be considered a policy group of one.

In one embodiment member policy groups do not need to be listed in a group store. During the consent process the server of can look to determine whether the site ID for the affiliate site requesting information is a member of a policy group. In general the database associated with server stores the operational information described above as well as the site IDs for the various service group and policy group members. If there is no association then the site ID is a single member policy group.

In the context of shared services management the user profile includes information used to represent participating site user specific information e.g. whether or not the user has premium services such as those provided through an Internet portal or online service . One method for enabling participating sites services to share information about their users with members of the site service group is for the authentication system to include these information bits in a profile cookie. For instance a premium content bit for an Internet services network allows sites on the services network to know that the user has a paid subscription without having to make additional server to server calls. This information may be built into the profile cookie regardless of the site at which the user signs in and is independent of consent settings.

In the exemplary process flow of Service A and Service B form one shared services group. Service A and Service C form another service group. Service A and Service B also share a common privacy policy and thus are in a policy group together. The user shown at client computer navigates to a first selected service namely Service A see A . As an example Service A represents an Internet portal service to which the user is signing in for the first time. Server initiates sign in and seeks first time consent from the user to disclose or use certain information in the user s profile see A A . The central server also either stores the user s credentials for the first time or verifies the previously stored information see B . Further server creates a ticket including a user profile information that the user has agreed to share with Service A b operational information specific to Service A and c operational information that is shared between Service A and Service B e.g. the user s status as a premium subscriber to Service B s content . If the shared services groups are established ahead of time the user is signed in to Service A see C C with both Service A specific and Service B and Service C shared operational information. In this instance further represents the user s first time consent to the privacy policy of Service A see A A .

When the user navigates to a content provider such as a Service B see D server silently authenticates the user see D D inasmuch as the user is navigating within a shared services group. Moreover Service A and Service B share a common privacy policy so that the user need not grant separate permission to Service B. In a similar manner the server as shown in verifies the user see E and creates a ticket including a user profile information that the user has agreed to share with Service B b operational information specific to Service B and c operational information that is shared between Service A and Service B. Central server permits the user to sign in to Service B see F F with both Service B specific and Service A shared operational information. But Service B does not have access to information in the client specific to Service A or shared by Service A and Service C. The user need not know that the system has routed him or her to another site because of the shared services and shared privacy policy arrangements.

In this exemplary process flow of the user navigates to Service C see G and is asked to re authenticate see G G because the immediately preceding site was in a different shared services group. As part of an authentication system central server verifies the user see H and creates a ticket including a user profile information that the user has agreed to share with Service C b operational information specific to Service C and c operational information that is shared between Service A and Service C. The server signs in the user to Service C see I I with both Service C specific and Service A shared operational information. As above Service C does not have access to information specific to Service A or shared by Service A and Service B. In the event this is the user s first visit to Service C the user will again go through a first time consent process because Service C is not in the policy group with Services A and B. Even if Service C belonged to the same service group as Services A and B the consent process would be necessary because Service C employs a different privacy policy in this example.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention database stores an extensible markup language XML file hereinafter policygroup.xml associated with a particular policy group. The policygroup.xml file includes information specific to the policy group and is utilized by central server to perform authentication shared services management policy and permissions management and the like. Table 1 provides descriptions of exemplary fields stored in the policygroup.xml file.

In another exemplary embodiment of the invention database also stores an XML file hereinafter site.xml associated with a particular site of the policy group. According to this embodiment of the invention the site.xml file includes information specific to the particular site and is also utilized by central server to perform authentication shared services management policy and permissions management and the like. Table 2 provides descriptions of exemplary fields stored in the site.xml file.

In one embodiment of the invention one policy group cannot be a member of another policy group. And sites can be in one policy group at a time. According to another embodiment of the invention a site may move from one policy group to another. But if the user has previously granted consent for the original policy group to access the profile attributes stored in the user profile of the user this consent remains with the original policy group. That is the moved away site can no longer access the profile attributes unless the user also grants consent for the new policy group to access the stored profile attributes.

As shown in Tables 1 and 2 the policygroup.xml file and the site.xml file may specify a list of profile attributes that are desired by a site when the user attempts to sign in to the site. According to an embodiment of the invention if the site has specified the desired profile attributes in the layout section of its site.xml file these profile attributes override the default profile attributes specified in the policygroup.xml file for the policy group to which the site belongs. Additionally the site may specify an empty layout section in the site.xml file which means that the site does not desire a profile attribute and that the site will not accrue information from the user. And the site may include in its site.xml file a directive the PolicyGroupDefaults abstract attribute to specify the default profile attributes of the policygroup.xml file as its desired profile attributes. In such a scenario a union of both sets of profile attributes is used for the site. That is the site has specified that it desires both the profile attributes specified in the site.xml file and that specified in the policygroup.xml file.

Again when the user attempts to access one of the services provided by one or more affiliate servers he or she may first be directed to central server for authentication. If the user does not have a credential stored in database server may desire the user to register with server before allowing the user to access the service. That is server may host both the registration and authentication services e.g. EASI . In one embodiment the services hosted by server also belong to a policy group which may be the same policy group that one or more services of affiliate servers belong to. As part of the registration process in addition to the profile attributes desired by the service which are specified in the site.xml of the service and or in the policygroup.xml of the policy group to which the service belongs server may also mandate certain profile attributes from the user. The set of profile attributes desired by server and the associated intentions and retentions are specified in an XML file hereinafter namespace.xml associated with server . As such the list of profile attributes that the user needs to provide during registration is a union of profile attributes specified in the namespace.xml file and the site.xml file or that specified in the namespace.xml file and the policygroup.xml file if the overriding profile attributes are not specified in the site.xml file.

According to one embodiment of the invention after the user completes the registration process by providing the desired profile attributes one or more consent records are stored in database indicating that the user has granted consent for the service and the policy group to which it belongs to and server to use the provided profile attributes. Furthermore server creates and stores a user profile including the profile attributes provided by the user. According to another embodiment of the invention a set of simple object access protocol SOAP application programming interfaces APIs may be utilized to manipulate the consent records and other consent settings programmatically. In this embodiment of the invention a particular SOAP request is accompanied by a valid authentication ticket for the profile service. This ticket is in the SOAP message itself or in the HTTP headers. For security reasons e.g. a client side script from a hostile web site can fabricate SOAP requests and cause existing tickets to be automatically attached in the outgoing request headers tickets arriving inside a cookie header are ignored.

As discussed above a set of intentions is associated with a particular profile attribute or site specific attribute desired by the service. The intentions describe how a service intends to use the attributes provided by the user. In one embodiment of the invention a particular intention is represented as a bit mask. Accordingly the bit mask representation for the set of intentions associated with a particular attribute can be obtained by applying an OR operation to the individual bit mask representations of the intentions associated with the attribute. This bit mask representation for the set of intentions associated with the attribute can then be stored in a consent record.

In an alternative embodiment of the invention an intention is stored in the site.xml policygroup.xml and or namespace.xml files as a numeric value instead of a string value. In order to prevent services provided by affiliate servers from creating their own intentions server may define a string value for one or more numeric intention values. As such the services are forced to adopt the intentions defined by server . Table 3 illustrates exemplary string values of the intentions and their corresponding numeric values.

The user may grant consent for the service to use a particular attribute for a particular intention. When such consent is granted by the user members of the policy group to which the service belongs may also use the attribute for this particular intention. As such the consent record may indicate the following 

According to one embodiment of the invention if the user signs in to different services in the same policy group and if those services have different intentions for the same attribute the user should re grant consent for that attribute. For example if the user grants consent to Service A in Policy Group for gender and occupation with intention and then signs in to Service B in Policy Group which desires gender with intention then the user is needed to grant consent to Service B for gender with intention . After the user grants such consent the consent record would indicate the following 

In contrast to intentions retentions specify the length of time that members of a policy group intend to keep information obtained from the user. In addition unlike intentions retentions apply to the entire policy group instead of individual members and apply to the entire set of attributes instead of individual attributes. But similar to intentions retentions are stored in the site.xml policygroup.xml and or namespace.xml files as numeric values instead of string values. And server may define the string values for the numeric retention values to prevent services from creating their own retentions. Table 4 illustrates exemplary string values of the retentions and their corresponding numeric values.

There may be certain inherent dependencies between profile attributes. For example the location profile attributes country zip region time zone are inherently dependent on each other. Such dependencies may affect how services request these profile attributes and what are sent to the services. For example server may validate zip code based on the provided country and region information. Server may also validate time zone based on the country information. So during profile and consent accrual it may be desired that certain location profile attributes be provided in groups.

To ensure that the services understand these groups and to prevent server from having to write validation codes that check for missing dependent profile attributes group names may be defined for the services to represent these profile attribute groups. Table 5 shows exemplary dependencies between location profile attributes and exemplary group names for services to include in their site.xml files.

Before server delivers the user profile it is determined at if Service A is a legacy mode service. According to one embodiment of the invention a legacy mode service does not allow the user to sign in to the service until he or she grants consent to the service. In contrast a non legacy mode service may allow the user to sign in and use its site without accruing the profile attributes stored in the user profile. In one embodiment of the invention a flag called ProfileViaPOST embedded in the SOAP request is used to determine if Service A is in legacy mode or not. If this flag is set to a value of 1 Service A is not in legacy mode. As such the user profile is delivered to Service A as a signed XML blob via HTTP POST over secure sockets layer SSL . If ProfileViaPOST is not present or is set to a value of 0 Service A is in legacy mode. This means that the user profile is delivered to Service A as a profile cookie e.g. a p parameter in the query string of the return URL of Service A . In addition accompanying the profile cookie is an authentication ticket that authenticates the user for Service A. After the user profile is delivered to Service A the user is redirected back to Service A from server .

According to one embodiment of the invention the user profile delivered to Service A may include the entire profile attributes that the user has granted consent to the policy group to which Service A belongs. When multiple legacy mode services in the policy group shares an encryption key these services should check the profile cookie to ensure that they are getting the desired profile attributes. If the correct attributes are not present Service A may direct the user to server to get the correct profile cookie. This might be necessary because the user may have previously signed in to another service in the policy group that desires fewer or different profile attributes. If this is the case the profile cookie may be written with the profile attributes desired by the first service which may be a subset of the profile attributes desired by Service A. When the user goes to Service A the existing authentication ticket and profile cookie may automatically sign in the user to Service A. But since Service A desires different or more profile attributes than those present in the profile cookie the user should be directed to Service A to create a new profile cookie with the proper profile attributes i.e. the profile attributes desired by both services .

Back to and if server determines that the user has not already granted consent to Service A or that the requested profile attributes are not available in the user profile server proceeds to to determine the value of Service A s KPP parameter read from the query string. In one embodiment of the invention the KPP parameter specifies the parental consent requirements of children s privacy laws such as the Children s Online Privacy Protection Act COPPA and can have a range of values. In one embodiment of the invention a KPP value of 0 indicates that Service A does not wish to comply with the children s privacy laws and thus is not a KPP service. In such a scenario server may proceed to . On the other hand a non zero KPP value indicates that Service A complies with the children s privacy laws and thus a KPP service . In this case server may proceed to a minor consent process at which is generally illustrated in .

At server determines if the user profile of the user is active. According to one embodiment the user may have made a decision on whether to have an active profile or an inactive profile during registration. An inactive profile means that profile attributes are not accrued from the user and that the user profile includes no profile attributes. In contrast if the user has an active profile profile attributes will be accrued and stored in the user profile depending on the consent granted by the user.

In one embodiment of the invention if server determines that the user profile is inactive it continues to a consent process with inactive profile at which is generally illustrated in . If the user profile is active a consent UI with active profile is displayed to the user at . According to one embodiment of the invention the consent UI is displayed to the user via a browser of one of the client computer systems as a hypertext markup language HTML page. Included in the consent UI is a number of open fields for entry of profile attributes desired by Service A and potentially additional profile attributes desired by the policy group to which Service A belongs . And profile attributes already stored in the user profile are displayed in the consent UI in non editable form. According to one embodiment of the invention Service A may specify in its site.xml file a list of site specific attributes that it wishes to collect from the user. The site specific attributes are specific to Service A and accordingly not stored in the user profile instead they may be stored in a database of Service A . If Service A has specified a list of site specific attributes in its site.xml file the consent UI may include open fields for entry of these site specific attributes. These fields are displayed in the consent UI in a visually distinct way to inform the user that they are not part of the user profile.

Typically the username that the user used to sign in to Service A may be the same as the alias of the user s email address stored in the user profile. And it is common for a service to allow the user to sign in using his or her email address. According to embodiments of the invention if Service A specifies the user s email address or username as a desired profile attribute and if the username is the same as the email alias the consent UI may include a open field for the user to enter the email address instead of the username. In this embodiment of the invention if the user submits his or her email address to server Service A has been effectively granted consent to use the username of the user.

The consent UI may further provide a value proposition describing why the user should provide the requested attributes to Service A. As indicated at a user selectable option e.g. an HTML link allows the user to review intentions and retentions associated with the requested and previously stored profile attributes. Upon selection of the user selectable option at server at provides an intentions and retentions UI to the user. The intentions and retentions UI displays a list of requested and previously stored profile attributes and the corresponding intentions and retentions. The intentions and retentions for site specific attributes desired by Service A and for the profile attributes desired by the policy group of Service A may also be displayed in the intentions and retentions UI. In one embodiment attributes with the same intentions are grouped together in the intentions and retentions UI. And the intentions and retentions UI may display a list of services belonging to the policy group of Service A.

As an example the intentions and retentions include a user selectable option e.g. an HTML link for the user to view the privacy policy associated with the policy group to which Service A belongs as indicated at . Upon selection of the user selectable option at server at may provide the privacy policy to the user e.g. via a web page . As indicated at if the user selects a back option displayed on the privacy policy page or in the intentions and retentions UI he or she is directed back to the consent UI.

According to one embodiment of the invention the consent UI also includes an edit profile option. Upon selection of the edit profile option at the user is directed to an edit profile process at . At the beginning of the edit profile process server provides an edit profile UI not shown to the user. The edit profile UI includes a list of profile attributes currently stored in the user profile and provides open fields for the user to edit or update the currently stored profile attributes. After editing updating the profile attributes and confirming the changes a consent record is stored in database . The consent record indicates that Service A and other members of the policy group of Service A is granted consent to access the edited updated profile attributes. Accordingly Service A may request the same profile attributes without another consent UI in the future. The edited updated profile attributes are further stored in the user profile. Accordingly if the user selects an option to go back to the consent UI the consent UI will now display the edited updated profile attributes. In contrast if the user goes back to the consent UI without confirming the changes the consent UI will display the old profile attributes previously stored in the user profile. It is noted that if the user empties profile attributes in the edit profile UI and confirms the changes the user profile then becomes inactive.

After entering the desired attributes in the open fields displayed in the consent UI the user may select an option at to continue the consent process. Upon selection of the option server determines at if the user has entered new profile attributes. If the user has entered new profile attributes server further at determines if the user has chosen to save the newly entered profile attributes by checking a checkbox displayed in the consent UI. If the user has chosen to save the newly entered profile attributes server proceeds to to save the newly entered profile attributes in the user profile. Furthermore server at stores a consent record in database indicating that the user has granted consent for Service A to use the newly entered profile attributes. If the user has also granted consent for site specific attributes the consent record also indicates that Service A has been granted consent to use the site specific attributes and accordingly these site specific attributes may not subsequently be accrued again . After the consent record is stored in database and if no new profile attribute is entered or if the user has not chosen to save the new profile attributes server proceeds to to determine the mode of Service A. Server then delivers the user profile to Service A as a function of the mode of Service A.

It is noted that in one embodiment of the invention if the user grants consent to Service A then he or she is effectively granting consent to the policy group to which Service A belongs. In other words the member services of the policy group of Service A will be able to access the profile attributes stored in the user profile.

As indicated at the consent UI further includes an option for the user to cancel the consent process. Upon selection of the option at server determines at if Service A is a legacy mode service. If Service A is not a legacy mode service server at delivers an HTTP POST to Service A with cancel in the body of the POST. If Service A is a legacy mode service server at redirects the user back to Service A without an authentication ticket and profile cookie. Accordingly if Service A is a legacy mode service the user is not allowed to sign in to Service A. It is noted that according to one embodiment of the invention even if the user cancels the consent process prior existing consent to Service A may still remain i.e. prior consent record is not removed . Accordingly Service A may still be able to access profile attributes and site specific attributes that Service A had previously been granted consent to use.

The consent UI may be provided to the user at subsequent visits to Service A under several scenarios. First if Service A starts desiring a different set of attributes including site specific attributes from those for which consent has already been granted another consent UI may be provided to the user to accrue consent for the new set of attributes. Second consent accrual may be needed again if Service A changes the intentions and retentions for attributes including site specific attributes for which consent has already been granted unless the user has granted consent for another service within the same policy group to use the attributes under the new intentions and retentions. For example if the user has granted consent for Service A to use the user email for contact purpose and subsequently Service A decides to use the email for advertising purpose the consent UI will show up again when the user subsequently visits Service A in order to accrue consent for Service A to use the email for advertising purpose. Third if the user deletes one or more of the profile attributes from the user profile to which he or she has already granted consent to Service A the consent UI may be provided to the user during subsequent visits to Service A in order to accrue the deleted but desired profile attributes.

The consent UI includes a list of open fields for the user to enter the requested attributes and an option for the user to continue the consent process. Upon selecting the option to continue at server at determines if the user has entered new profile attributes. If the user has entered new profile attributes server determines at if the user has decided to enable activate the user profile by checking an enable profile checkbox displayed in the consent UI. If the user has decided to enable active the user profile server at creates the user profile with the entered profile attributes and stores a consent record in database indicating that Service A has been granted consent to use the newly entered profile attributes as well as the newly entered site specific attributes . After the user profile is created and the consent record is stored or if no new profile attribute is entered or if the enable profile checkbox is not checked server determines at if Service A is a legacy mode service. If Service A is a legacy mode service server at redirects the user to Service A with a profile cookie and authentication ticket to allow the user to sign in to Service A. If Service A is not a legacy mode service server at delivers the user profile to Service A as a signed XML blob via HTTP POST over SSL.

In one embodiment of the invention the consent UI also includes an option for the user to cancel the consent process. If the option is selected by the user at server at then determines if Service A is a legacy mode service. If Service A is a legacy mode service server at redirects the user back to Service A without an authentication ticket and profile cookie. If Service A is not a legacy mode service server at delivers an HTTP POST to Service A with cancel in the body of the POST. It is noted that the difference between the consent process with an active profile and the consent process with an inactive profile is that with an inactive profile the user cannot edit stored profile attributes. This is because an inactive profile has empty fields i.e. it does not store a profile attribute .

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary operational flow for the minor consent process according to one embodiment of the invention. In one embodiment of the invention the consent process illustrated in can be applied to a managed user account such as a parent or other responsible person granting consent for a minor. According to the embodiment of the invention after server determines that Service A is a KPP service at of server then at determines if Service A complies with comprehensive parental consent requirements. This can be determined from the KPP parameter of Service A. For example a KPP value of 3 may indicate that the service wishes to comply with the most restrictive parental consent requirements e.g. as specified by COPPA . If Service A does not wish to comply with such comprehensive parental consent requirements server proceeds to to determine if the user is a minor. If the user is not a minor then server at proceeds to a normal consent process which begins at of . If the user is a minor then server proceeds to a parent granting minor consent process at .

The parent granting minor consent process begins by providing a UI asking the user if the parent or other responsible person of the user is present with the user. If the user indicates that the parent or other responsible person is currently present with the user server renders a request for the parent to sign in to Service A on behalf of the user. When the parent signs in server operating in accordance with embodiments of the invention presents the parent with a consent UI for the minor which displays a list of profile attributes stored in the user profile of the user as well as profile attributes entered by the user before the parent is rendered the consent UI. Further to the example the parent reviews the consent UI and determines that he or she does not want Service A to have the user s real postal code. The parent selects an edit profile option and submits the request. The server asks the parent to sign in again. After confirming that the parent is an adult e.g. by confirming that the parent has a credit card server presents the parent with an edit profile UI displaying the user s stored profile attributes. The parent can change the postal code or other information for Service A and may save the changes to the user profile. After the changes are saved the parent is directed back to the consent UI to finish granting or denying consent for the user. In one embodiment the consent UI may display warnings that by using Service A the user may enter additional personal information in public forums such as chat rooms which may display the personal information to other users. If the parent still grants consent to Service A server directs the parent back to Service A where the user can sign in and access Service A.

Back to if server determines that Service A wishes to comply with the comprehensive parental consent requirements it is determined at if the birth date and country of the user are stored in the user profile. If the birth date and country of the user are not in the user profile server at determines if the country of the user is known but not equal to US or Korea which both have enacted children s privacy laws e.g. COPPA of US and The Promotion of the Utilization of Information and Communication Network and Protection of Information Act of Korea . If this is not true server at determines if the age of the user is known and greater than fourteen. If the age of the user is either not known or not greater than fourteen then server provides an accrual UI at to accrue the birth date and country information from the user. Upon entry of the birth date and country information and selection of an option to continue the consent process at server proceeds to to update the user profile with the new country and birth date information. After the user profile is updated server continues to to determine if the user is a minor in order to decide which consent process i.e. either the normal consent process or the parent granting minor consent process is to be rendered to the user. Also illustrated in server also proceeds to to determine the consent process to be rendered if a the birth date and country of the user are stored in the user profile b the country of the user is known and not equal to US or Korea or c the age of the user is known and greater than fourteen.

The accrual UI to accrue the birth date and country information also includes an option for the user to cancel the consent process. If this option is selected at then server at determines if Service A is a legacy mode service. If Service A is a legacy mode service server at redirects the user back to Service A without an authentication ticket and profile cookie. If Service A is not a legacy mode service server at delivers an HTTP POST to Service A with cancel in the body of the POST.

If the user does not indicate that he or she wishes to review and or revoke consent for a managed minor user server at provides a review consent UI to the user via a browser. The review consent UI displays a list of policy groups and sites services including a link to the sites services to which the user has granted consent and includes an option for the user to view attributes consented including site specific attributes for a particular policy group or site service. Upon selection of the option at the user at is directed to an attributes UI that shows the attributes consented and the intentions and retentions associated therewith. The attributes UI has a user selectable option for the user to view the privacy policy associated with the particular policy group. Upon selection of the option at server at provides a web page displaying the privacy policy of the particular policy group. The web page includes an option to bring the user back to the review consent UI as indicated at .

Since site specific attributes are not stored in the user profile the attributes UI does not display the values of such site specific attributes. Nevertheless the attributes UI includes an option for the user to view the values of the site specific attributes accrued by a particular service. Upon selection of the option at the user is provided a web page hosted by the particular service which displays the values of the site specific attributes previously accrued by the service. As shown in both the attributes UI and the external web page hosted by the service may include a user selectable option for the user to return to the review consent UI.

According to one embodiment of the invention the review consent UI further has a revoke consent option for the user to revoke consent granted to a particular policy group or site service. Upon selection of the option at server provides a confirmation UI at to explain consequences of consent revocation e.g. that the user can no longer access the service . The confirmation UI has an option to cancel the option to revoke. Upon selection of the cancel option at the user is directed back to the review consent UI. If the user selects a continue option at server at may remove a consent record which indicates that the particular service has been granted consent to access the profile attributes and site specific attributes from database . After the consent record is removed the user is then directed back to the review consent UI which includes a back option to bring the user back to the member services page as indicated at .

According to one embodiment of the invention revoking consent to a service also means revoking consent to members of the policy group to which the service belongs. So after consent is revoked other members of the same policy group may no longer access profile attributes stored in the user profile. According to another embodiment of the invention the user may not partially revoke consent. That is the user may not revoke consent for a subset of the set of desired attributes while still allowing the service access to other desired attributes.

If the user wishes to continue accessing services provided by affiliate servers he or she may not revoke consent for the profile attributes desired by server as part of the registration process. These profile attributes are desired for the user to maintain his or her multi site user authentication account with server . Accordingly if these profile attributes are revoked access to the services are not allowed unless the user re registers with server and provides the desired profile attributes. In another embodiment of the invention if server determines that the user is a minor the option to revoke consent is not provided in the review consent UI. This embodiment of the invention prevents a minor user from revoking consent granted by a parent or other responsible person on behalf of the minor user.

In the illustrated embodiments computer has one or more processors or processing units and a system memory . In the illustrated embodiment a system bus couples various system components including the system memory to the processors . The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The modulated data signal has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of the any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during startup is typically stored in ROM . The RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. also shows a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. LAN and or WAN can be a wired network a wireless network a combination thereof and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

When used in a local area networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device not shown . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the memory device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the data processors of computer are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. Embodiments of the invention described herein include these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described herein in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. Embodiments of the invention also include the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described below.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computer one embodiment of the invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics including mobile phones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMI interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DOOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

In operation computer executes computer executable instructions such as those described herein to manage consent between a client and a network server. Computer executable instructions maintain a user profile associated with a user of the client. Computer executable instructions receive a request from a service provided by the network server for user information associated with the user and for consent to use the requested user information. Computer executable instructions determine if the requested user information is included in the user profile in response to the request for consent. A user interface is provided to the user via a browser of the client to collect the requested user information that is not included in the user profile from the user. After receiving the user information provided by the user via the user interface computer executable instructions allow access by the service provided by the network server to the received user information.

Information in this document including uniform resource locator and other Internet web site references is subject to change without notice. Unless otherwise noted the example companies organizations products domain names e mail addresses logos people places and events depicted herein are fictitious and no association with any real company organization product domain name e mail address logo person place or event is intended or should be inferred.

The order of execution or performance of the methods illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is it is contemplated by the inventors that elements of the methods may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and that the methods may include more or less elements than those disclosed herein.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

In view of the above it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained.

As various changes could be made in the above constructions and methods without departing from the scope of embodiments of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

Ichiro has an EASI created at Website A. His profile includes his email address country state and zip. Ichiro goes to Website B for the first time and presses the sign in button. Website B desires users to provide country state and zip. After entering his username password if necessary he is presented with a consent page. The consent page displays Ichiro s country state and zip along with a summary of how Website B intends to use Ichiro s data. Ichiro agrees to consent by choosing the continue button. Website B gets Ichiro s country state and zip.

Ichiro has previously granted consent to Website B for country state and zip. He is currently logged into a website supporting a single sign in service. He now goes to Website C for the first time. Website C desires the same profile attributes as Website B country state and zip . He presses the sign in button on Website C. He is automatically signed in to Website C and Website C gets country state and zip. No consent UI is displayed because he had previously granted consent to Website B for the same data same intentions and same retention and because Website B and Website C are in the same policy group.

Ichiro is signed in to a website hosting a single sign in service. He goes to Website D for the first time. Website D is in the same policy group to which Website B and Website C belong. Website D desires email address country state and zip. Ichiro presses the sign in button on Website D. Ichiro sees a consent page asking for consent for email address country state and zip because he has not yet granted consent to email address . He presses continue and is signed in to Website D and Website D gets the email address country state and zip.

Ichiro moves from Redmond to Woodinville. Shortly after moving he goes to Website E a site he has never visited before. Website E wants email country state and zip from its users. Ichiro presses the sign In button and is presented with a consent page with email country state and zip displayed in read only mode. He sees that his zip is still the Redmond zip of 98052. He wants to change this to the Woodinville zip code thus he clicks a link on the page that takes him to a page displaying his full user profile. Ichiro changes his zip code to 98072 and presses the save button. He is then taken back to the consent page and sees the updated zip code displayed in a read only field. He presses continue is signed in to Website E and Website E gets his zip and email address.

Ichiro now goes to Website F a site he has never been to before. Website F wants email zip country gender and birth date from its users. Ichiro presses the sign in button and after entering his username password if necessary he sees the consent page. The consent page displays email zip and country in read only mode and gender and birth date are shown. But since the gender and birth date profile attributes do not yet have values they are shown as unspecified and are editable. Ichiro selects male for gender and enters his birth date directly on the consent page he doesn t have to go to the edit profile page to do this . He presses continue is signed in to Website F and email zip country gender and birth date are sent to Website F. The new data he entered is also saved into his user profile and a consent record is written to allow Website F to request the same information without UI in the future.

Ichiro goes to Website G for the first time and presses the sign in button. He sees the consent page. It includes birth date and Ichiro does not want to provide that to Website G. So he clicks the cancel button on the consent page and is sent back to the return URL of Website G. No profile data is sent to Website G. If the site is operating in legacy mode Ichiro is not signed in.

Joe purchases a mobile phone with Internet connectivity. Joe starts his browser on his phone to sign up for Website A. Due to the difficulty in typing on a phone the registration process asks Joe to specify a username and password. No other profile information is desired. A week later Joe goes to Website A on his personal computer for the first time and signs in. Immediately after signing in Joe is presented with a consent accrual page for the standard Website A profile attributes including member directory and white pages checkboxes which are site specific attributes that are not stored in the user profile. Joe enters these and signs in to Website A. Joe then signs out. A week later he goes to Website A on his personal computer and signs in. He gets in without another consent accrual UI.

The policy group to which Website A belongs makes a material change to its privacy policy. It will now sell the user s profile information to third parties. Joe now goes to Website A a site that he has used before. He is asked to consent to share his data again with the new intentions.

Abby s son Tanner signs in to Website D for the first time to use his soccer team community site. Tanner has a user profile that includes his email address. Since Website D complies with the COPPA regulation Tanner is shown a consent page that asks him to provide his birth date and country as well as gender which Website D wants for targeted advertising. Tanner enters these values into the consent accrual UI and presses continue. Since Tanner is a child and his parent has not yet provided consent to Website D the next page he sees asks if his parent is with him to provide consent. He indicates Yes because his parent is present. Abby logs in enters her credit card to prove she is an adult reads the intentions grants consent to Website D and then sees the same profile consent accrual page again with the data that Tanner entered in the initial profile consent accrual page except for site specific attributes the values of which are not stored in the user profile . This page also explains to Abby that Website D might allow Tanner to enter additional information in public forums such as chat rooms that may display the information to other users. Abby thinks this is fine and presses the continue button. She is logged out and redirected back to Website D where Tanner signs in and gets access to his soccer team community site.

A week later Tanner signs in to Website H which is not a KPP site. To access the site Website H desires users to provide their occupation information. Instead of showing the normal profile consent page the Is your parent with you page is shown. Abby is present. Accordingly she presses Yes and signs in. She sees the profile consent page asking for occupation selects Student and presses continue. She is signed out and redirected back to Website H where Tanner can now sign in. A week later Tanner starts getting junk email at his email account. Abby believes this is caused by Tanner sharing his profile information with Website D thus she goes to Member Services and denies consent to Website D.

Ichiro decides that he no longer wants Website E to have access to his profile data. So he goes to the Privacy section of Member Services and views a page showing the policy groups to which he has granted consent. Next to a particular policy group is a list of the attributes to which he has granted consent. He sees Website E checks the box next to it presses the revoke button reviews the confirmation page explaining the consequences of revoking consent and presses continue to complete the action.

Abby signs in to Member Services and chooses the Privacy section. From the Privacy section she chooses the Managed Accounts link and reviews the consent settings for her children. When she discovers that she has granted full consent to Website E for Tanner she revokes consent completely so that Tanner will not be able to sign in to Website E in the future.

