---

title: Conveying subscriber information to service chain services using tunnel protocol header encapsulation for mobile network applications in a network environment
abstract: A method provided in one embodiment includes receiving, at a first network element, a first data packet of a data flow, wherein the data flow is associated with a subscriber. The method further includes receiving subscriber information associated with the subscriber, and encapsulating the subscriber information with the first data packet to form an encapsulated data packet. The method still further includes determining a service chain including one or more services to which the encapsulated data packet is to be forwarded, and forwarding the encapsulated data packet to the service chain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398486&OS=09398486&RS=09398486
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09398486
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140610
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to conveying subscriber information to service chain services using tunnel protocol header encapsulation for mobile network applications in a network environment.

Networking architectures have grown increasingly complex in communication environments. An increasing emphasis exists on service providers offering infrastructure to provide for value added services such as multimedia or other services to mobile subscribers. In general terms service providers may provide these value added services through the use of service chains. Service chains allow the chaining together of one or more services and or appliances to provide for performing a particular service on a particular data flow associated with a particular subscriber. In addition service providers often have a desire to offer use of the service chains to third parties who may use various services and or appliances of the service chain to realize a particular value added service that the third party wishes to offer to subscribers. In certain instances the third party may wish to encrypt the data flow as it passes through the service chain. However the third party may also desire that the service provider provide particular information associated with the subscriber to the third party in order to utilize the subscriber information within the service chain.

A method is provided in one embodiment and includes receiving at a first network element a first data packet of a data flow wherein the data flow is associated with a subscriber. The method further includes receiving subscriber information associated with the subscriber and encapsulating the subscriber information with the first data packet to form an encapsulated data packet. The method still further includes determining a service chain including one or more services to which the encapsulated data packet is to be forwarded and forwarding the encapsulated data packet to the service chain.

In specific embodiments the subscriber information includes policy information associated with the subscriber. In other specific embodiments encapsulating the subscriber information further comprises including the subscriber information within a network service header. In other specific embodiments the subscriber information is included within a context header of the network service header.

In specific embodiments the method further includes receiving a second data packet from the service chain the second data packet including an indication of one or more actions that are requested to be performed in association with the data flow. In other specific embodiments the method further includes routing the indication of the requested action to a network entity configured to perform the requested action upon the data flow.

In other specific embodiments the method further includes determining a subscriber identifier associated with the subscriber included in the first data packet. In still other specific embodiments the method further includes sending a request message including the subscriber identifier to a second network element the request message including a request for the subscriber information associated with the subscriber.

In still other specific embodiments one or more services of the service chain are configured to extract the subscriber information and the first data packet from the encapsulated data packet and perform one or more operations upon the first data packet based upon the subscriber information.

Logic encoded in one or more non transitory media is provided in one embodiment that includes code for execution and when executed by a processor operable to perform operations comprising receiving at a first network element a first data packet of a data flow wherein the data flow is associated with a subscriber receiving subscriber information associated with the subscriber and encapsulating the subscriber information with the first data packet to form an encapsulated data packet. The operations further include determining a service chain including one or more services to which the encapsulated data packet is to be forwarded and forwarding the encapsulated data packet to the service chain.

A network element is provided in one embodiment and includes a memory element configured to store electronic code a processor operable to execute instructions associated with the electronic code and a module coupled to the memory element and the processor. The network element is configured for receiving a first data packet of a data flow wherein the data flow is associated with a subscriber receiving subscriber information associated with the subscriber and encapsulating the subscriber information with the first data packet to form an encapsulated data packet. The network element is further configured for determining a service chain including one or more services to which the encapsulated data packet is to be forwarded and forwarding the encapsulated data packet to the service chain.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a communication system for conveying subscriber information to services of a service chain in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Communication system includes a service provider core platform including an application programming interface API gateway complex event processing CEP module master orchestrator module service gateway control classifier first service chain second service chain application analytics module infrastructure analytics module rules engine operations administration and management OAM module policy mediation module online charging system OCS mediation module and offline charging system OfCS mediation module .

API gateway is in communication with CEP module and CEP module is in further communication with application analytics module . Master orchestrator module is in communication with service gateway control classifier and rules engine . Service gateway control is in further communication with classifier policy mediation module OCS mediation and OfCS mediation module . Classifier is in further communication with first service chain and second service chain . First service chain and second service chain are each in further communication with application analytics module and infrastructure analytics module . Infrastructure analytics module is in further communication with rules engine .

Communication system further includes one or more infrastructure applications in communication with API gateway a policy and charging rules function PCRF in communication with policy mediation module via a Gi interface an OCS in communication with OCS mediation module via a Gy interface and an OfCS in communication with OfCS mediation module via a Gz interface. Communication system further includes first user equipment UE and second user equipment UE in communication with a mobile network . Mobile network is in further communication with a load balancing router . Load balancing router is in further communication with classifier of service provider core platform the Internet and an IP Multimedia System IMS . IMS is configured to provide IP multimedia services to one or more of first UE and second UE

API gateway is configured to provide integration of infrastructure applications with service provider core platform such as enabling programmability of services infrastructure via one or more of infrastructure applications . CEP is configured to receive information related to one or more networks event data sources analyze the received information and identify one or more network events based upon the analysis. Master orchestrator module is configured to perform various resource management functions within a virtualized environment of the service provider core platform virtual machine management software defined network SDN layer management and virtual appliance management. Although various embodiments described herein related to virtual environments it should be understood that the principles are equally applicable to physical environments as well.

Service gateway control is configured to receive subscriber specific information associated with a particular data flow from one or more sources such as PCRF OCS and OfCS as will be further described herein. PCRF may be configured to provide subscriber specific information related to policy and charging rule functions OCS may be configured to provide subscriber specific information related to online charging and OfCS may be configured to provide subscriber specific information related to offline charging. In particular embodiments policy mediation module OCS mediation module and OfCS mediation module may be configured to provide mediation operations on the subscriber specific policy online charging and offline charging information respectively before it is provided to service gateway control . In accordance with various embodiments service gateway control may be further configured to provide the subscriber specific information related to a particular data flow to classifier .

Classifier is configured to receive data flow packets associated with a particular subscriber and the subscriber specific information received from service gateway control and embed the subscriber specific information within the data flow packets as will be further described herein. In a particular embodiment the subscriber specific information is included within a header appended to the existing data flow packets of the data flow associated with the particular subscriber. Classifier is further configured to send the data flow packets having the included subscriber specific information to one or more of first service chain and second service chain . Each of first service chain and second service chain include one or more appliances that are configured in a chain to perform one or more services and or functions upon the data flow. In the particular embodiment illustrated in first service chain and second service chain each include a deep packet inspection DPI appliance an L7 Proxy appliance and a network address translation NAT firewall appliance. In particular embodiments first service chain and second service chain are each virtual service chains utilizing virtual appliances to perform the services and or functions upon a particular data flow associated with a subscriber. In one or more embodiments each of first service chain and second service chain are configured to extract the subscriber specific information embedded within the packet data for a particular flow and utilize the subscriber specific information to perform the specific services and or functions.

Application analytics module is configured to collect analytics related to applications within communication system and infrastructure analytics is configured to collect analytics related to infrastructure associated with communication system . Rules engine is configured to modify rules associated with the master orchestration module in response to changes in one or more conditions within the network infrastructure. OAM is configured to allow configuration management and maintenance operations of various component of service provider core platform by an operator.

Each of first UE and second UE is configured to include a cellular radio capable of communicating with mobile network . Each of first UE and second UE may be associated with clients or customers wishing to initiate a communication in communication system via some network. The term user equipment is interchangeable with the terminology endpoint and wireless device where such terms are inclusive of devices used to initiate a communication such as a computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or electronic notebook a cellular telephone an i Phone an i Pad a Google Droid an IP phone or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio video media or data exchanges within communication system .

Each of first UE and second UE may also be inclusive of a suitable interface to the human user such as a microphone a display a keyboard or other terminal equipment. Each of first UE and second UE may also be any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating an exchange within communication system . Data as used herein in this document refers to any type of numeric voice video or script data or any type of source or object code or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another.

In typical mobile applications a mobility anchor e.g. a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN or Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW separates the mobile access from packet data networks such as the Internet. Between the mobility anchor and the Packet Data Network Internet is a system of value added services VAS comprised of cascaded individual services e.g. appliances that use the subscriber identity as well as other knowledge of the subscriber e.g. the subscriber session record in making decisions regarding how the services are implemented for that specific subscriber. The subscriber session record may include the Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN the International Mobile Subscriber Identify IMSI the radio access technology RAT type as well as policy related information. It is usually maintained dynamically in the mobility anchor but is conveyed to a policy manager such as PCRF which can retrieve it using the IP address of the mobile device as a key. For Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP traffic one method of conveying the subscriber session record is by enriching an HTTP header.

Enriching traffic does not work for encrypted traffic. Much of the traffic today is carried by way of an encrypted tunnel e.g. through Secure Sockets Layer Transport Layer Security SSL TLS sessions for HTTPS and most SPDY traffic the mobile node sets up an encrypted end to end tunnel rendering any man in the middle service enhancements useless. Encrypting traffic is becoming the norm in mobile and non mobile networks. Various embodiments described herein provide by conveying subscriber information with encrypted or unencrypted traffic.

Various embodiments described herein may provide for conveying subscriber session record information from the mobility anchor to any appliance in the mobile VAS complex by a making the VAS multi tenant b enabling hosting by the mobile service provider appliances associated with the third parties managing the ciphered end point c exchanging subscriber session records with third parties in exchange for QoS and other transport specific information by way of subscriber records carried in a multi tenant tunnel and d establishing a business relationship between mobile service provider and the third party.

Typically a Software Defined Network SDN is formed of three elements. The first element is a logical connectivity view between services e.g. appliances and workflows provided by a topology of tunnels of encapsulated packets overlaid onto a physical network substrate. The second element is a special workflow called the forwarder which controls the forwarding of encapsulated packets between those tunnels. A third element is a control entity which can be centralized or distributed the SDN controller the function of which is to program the forwarder.

A VAS complex supporting the processing of flows and packets can be implemented using SDN techniques. For example service chains the basic construct that defines the sequencing of services that process packet flows may be implemented as an SDN based service chain. The SDN implementation of a service chain creates an overlay that interconnects services that are attached to forwarders.

In such an SDN based service chain a set of forwarders steer the traffic through all the services in the chain on an overlay network. These forwarders logically connect on a per flow basis the ports of the services in series in addition to connecting the first and last ports to external networks. For instance port A of the first service service A is connected to the mobility core and port A to the next service service B in the chain. The next service B is in turn connected to service C and service A and also has similar ports B connected to A and B connected to C . In this series the last service service X connects to the prior service via port X and to the packet data network via port X. Subscriber traffic is steered in either direction by the forwarders over this logical service path. In this example service A is the mobility anchor PDN GW or GGSN . It therefore has complete knowledge of the subscriber session record received from an external policy node and can insert a representation of this subscriber information as a service specific header in the tunnel encapsulation. An example of such a service header is the NSH vPath 3.0 as defined in EDCS 1236506. In accordance with various embodiments the forwarders in the path of the service chain have access to the service header and can present the subscriber session record or part thereof to the appliance either natively as metadata via the service header or via auxiliary third ports B C . . . used by the services for those purposes.

When the VAS is multi tenant third party providers can host their appliances in the infrastructure of the service provider hosting VAS. The prime benefits for hosting such appliances in the VAS is that the third party provider operates directly in the service provider s infrastructure is close in terms of latency to the subscriber and especially if the provided service includes shipping lots of cacheable information can avoid peering costs for both the third party provider and the VAS operator.

Given that the VAS operator and 3rd party provider share an infrastructure a control channel may be implemented between the third party provider and the VAS operator. In accordance with particular embodiments a header such as NSH vPath 3.0 tunnel header is used to implement a control channel between the VAS and third party provider operators. The control channel may be used to carry subscriber specific information including parameters pertaining to the subscriber such as IMSI MSISDN quality class max. QoS parameters etc . . . from the VAS operator to the third party provider. The third party provider may request certain QoS parameters for traffic destined to the mobile subscriber and can indicate how return traffic from the subscriber to the third party provider needs to be treated. In addition the control channel can be used by the third party provider to generate charging records counted against the subscriber s subscription or the VAS operator can charge access through its system for the third party provider by sending charging records over the control channel.

Accordingly various embodiments described herein use a service header to convey detailed mobile subscriber information to services offered by a mobile operator. Since in many cases the subscriber traffic is encrypted the service header metadata is the only way to derive needed subscriber information. One advantage that may be provided in some embodiments is that services that require subscriber information can have access to such information via the service header. For services that do not support the service header natively the information may be conveyed out of band. If the encapsulated traffic is encrypted as is often the case in mobile networks then various embodiments provide a viable option for the conveyance of subscriber session records or other subscriber specific information when an enriched header option is not possible. In a particular application of operator hosting of a content provider the subscriber session record contains valuable information about the user of mobile services that can be used by the content provider to personalize the service experience.

Referring again to first UE sends data traffic flow packets to mobile network which pass through load balancing router and are forwarded to classifier of service provider core platform . Service gateway control receives subscriber information associated with the data flow packets from one or more elements within communication system . In a particular embodiment service gateway control receives subscriber information in the form of policy information associated with the particular data flow from the policy infrastructure such as PCRF . Service gateway control sends the subscriber information associated with the data flow to classifier and encapsulates the subscriber information associated with the data flow within the data flow. In a particular embodiment classifier appends a network service header containing the subscriber information to the data flow associated with the subscriber. Classifier then forwards the data flow including the encapsulated subscriber information to a particular service chain such as first service chain . Each of the services and or appliances may look at the NSH header to determine the subscriber identity associated with the data packet. Accordingly all of the services and or appliances of first service chain for example DPI services NAT functions firewall etc. have a record of which subscriber originated the flow and can perform policy related operations on that flow without having to look inside the packets of the data flow. For example each individual application and or service can look at the network service header to identify the subscriber that is sending the data flow packet and determine what operations or services should be applied to the data flow based upon the subscriber information included in the network service header. This may be especially important if the flow is encrypted and it is not possible to look inside the flow. The packets at the end of first service chain may then be forwarded to their destination such as the Internet . Similarly on the way back a return packet from the Internet may be send from load balancing router to classifier .

In accordance with some embodiments a service and or appliance of one or more of first service chain and second service chain may send one or more return data packets back to classifier having an indication of one or more actions that are requested to be performed in association with the data flow of the subscriber. In particular embodiments the one or more actions may include QoS actions QCI actions billing actions rating actions network actions e.g. WiFi handoff implementing a traffic steering rule and service invocation e.g. media optimization . In a particular example a service and or appliance may request that the particular data flow associated with the subscriber be moved to a higher quality channel. In response to receiving the return data packets classifier may route the indication of the requested action to the appropriate network entity element or component within communication network configured to perform the requested action upon the data flow to determine whether the requested action is to be fulfilled. In another example classifier may communicate a subscriber s billing plan to a service of the service chain and the service may communicate back to classifier with an indication of the manner in which the subscriber should be charged for the service. In still another example classifier may communicate the network QoS to a service and in response the service may communicate an indication of the required QoS for the particular service back to classifier .

In another example one or more services of a service chain may be used to implement an Over The Top OTT voice service. In such an example classifier may send subscriber information in an NSH to a Web Real Time Communication WebRTC service within a virtual service chain that includes a subscriber identity e.g. IMSI MSISDN a subscriber location e.g. Cell ID Sector ID device specific information related to the capabilities of the UE and an indication of available supplementary services. In response the WebRTC service may send a return message including a required QoS a Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act CALEA or Lawful Intercept request a charging rating rule base and an indication to invoke one or more supplementary services.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a network service header NSH according to one embodiment. Network service header include a base header a first context header a second context header a third context header and a fourth context header . In at least one embodiment base header includes an indication of the protocol type of the data packet a service index that is decremented by service nodes after performing required services and a service path identifier to identify a particular service path. Base header facilitates service chaining by allowing traffic to be sent between different services in a service chain e.g. DPI NAT firewall etc. . In accordance with various embodiments one or more of first context header second context header third context header and fourth context header may include subscriber specific information associated with the data flow within the context data portion of the respective context header. Examples of subscriber specific data that may include a subscriber identifier such as the IMSI or MSISDN subscriber profile information subscriber location information access type charging parameters quality class information QoS parameters and network condition information.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a packet including a data packet having an embedded network service header NSH according to one embodiment. Packet includes a network service header appended to a data packet . Network service header includes subscriber information associated with a subscriber. Data packet includes a packet associated of a data flow associated with the subscriber. In a particular embodiment data packet may be an encrypted data packet while network service header is unencrypted. In still another particular embodiment data packet may be an unencrypted data packet. In one or more embodiments classifier receives the subscriber information associated with the data flow from service gateway control generates network service header including the subscriber information contained within the context data of the network service header and appends network service header to data packet . Classifier may then determine the particular service chain to which packet is to be forwarded and forward packet to one of first service chain and second service chain . One or more appliances and or services within the particular service chain may extract the subscriber information from the network service header and use the subscriber information to perform the service upon the data packet and or determine the particular operations that should be performed on data packet .

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of service gateway control in accordance with one embodiment. Service gateway control includes one or more processors a memory element and a service gateway control module . Processor s is configured to execute various tasks of service gateway control as described herein and memory element is configured to store data associated with service gateway control . Service gateway control module is configured to perform the various subscriber information collection functions of service gateway control as described herein. In particular embodiments service gateway control module is configured to receive subscriber information such as policy information associated with a data flow of a particular UE and send the subscriber information to classifier .

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of classifier in accordance with one embodiment. Classifier includes one or more processors a memory element and a classifier module . Processor is configured to execute various tasks of classifier as described herein and memory element is configured to store data associated with classifier . Classifier module is configured to perform the various classification functions of classifier as described herein. In a particular embodiment classifier module is configured to receive one or more data packets of a data flow associated with a particular subscriber receive subscriber information associated with the subscriber and include the subscriber information in a network service header. Classifier module may be further configured to encapsulate the network service header with the data packet and forward the encapsulated data packet of a particular service chain.

In one example implementation service gateway control and or classifier are network elements that facilitate or otherwise help coordinate subscriber information encapsulation activities e.g. for networks such as those illustrated in . As used herein in this Specification the term network element is meant to encompass network appliances servers routers switches gateways bridges loadbalancers firewalls processors modules base stations or any other suitable device component element or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. Moreover the network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

In one example implementation service gateway control and or classifier include software to achieve the operations as outlined herein in this document. In other embodiments this feature may be provided external to these elements or included in some other network device to achieve this intended functionality. Alternatively both elements include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments one or both of these devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram depicting a flow associated with service gateway control according to one embodiment. In service gateway control receives a request for subscriber information associated with a particular subscriber from classifier . In a particular embodiment classifier may send the request for subscriber information to service gateway control in response to receiving a data packet of a data flow associated with the particular subscriber. In one or more embodiments the request for subscriber information may include a subscriber identifier identifying the particular subscriber associated with the data flow. In service gateway control requests subscriber information associated with the subscriber identifier from one or more elements and or components of communication system . In a particular example service gateway control requests the subscriber information in the form of policy information associated the subscriber from PCRF . In service gateway control receives the requested subscriber information. In still other examples the requested subscriber information may include one or more of a subscriber name channel state access type charging state QoS state QoS class identifier QCI values subscriber profile information subscriber interests subscriber location information subscriber mobility patterns device type access type QoS rules and network overload conditions. In service gateway control sends the requested subscriber information to classifier and flow ends.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram depicting a flow associated with classifier according to one embodiment. In classifier receives one or more data packets of a data flow associated with a particular subscriber. In a particular embodiment the data packets are associated with a subscriber of first UE . In classifier identifies the subscriber associated with the one or more data packets. In one or more embodiments classifier may identify the subscriber by determining a subscriber identifier included in the one or more data packets. In a particular embodiment the subscriber identifier may include the MSISDN and or IMSI associated with the subscriber. In classifier requests subscriber information associated with the subscriber from service gateway control . In a particular embodiment classifier may send a request message including the subscriber identifier to service gateway control . In still another embodiment the request message may further include an indication of the particular subscriber information that is requested. In response to receiving the request service gateway control may collect the requested subscriber information and send the requested subscriber information to classifier .

In classifier receives the subscriber information from the service gateway control . In classifier encapsulates the subscriber information with the received data packet to form an encapsulated data packet. In one or more particular embodiments classifier generates a network service header including the requested subscriber information in one or more context headers of the network service header and appends the network service header to the received data packet to generate the encapsulated data packet.

In classifier determines whether the encapsulated data packet is to be forwarded to either first service chain or second service chain . In particular embodiments classifier determines whether to forward the encapsulated data packet to either first service chain or second service chain based upon one or more of the subscriber identity and or one or more subscriber parameters within the received subscriber information. In classifier forwards the encapsulated data packet to either first service chain or second service chain based upon the determination. In response to receiving the encapsulated data packet one or more services of the service chain may extract the subscriber information and data packet and perform one or more services and or operations upon the data packet based upon the subscriber information.

In some embodiments the one or more services of the service chain may send a return data packet to classifier including an indication of a request for one or more actions to be performed on the data flow associated with the subscriber. In classifier receives a return packet including the indication of the request for one or more actions to be performed on the data flow associated with the subscriber. In classifier processes the action request and flow ends. In a particular embodiment classifier processes the action request by routing the indication of the requested action to the appropriate network entity element or component within communication network configured to perform the requested action upon the data flow to determine whether the requested action is to be fulfilled. In particular embodiments the one or more actions may include QoS actions QCI actions billing actions rating actions network actions e.g. WiFi handoff implementing a traffic steering rule and service invocation e.g. media optimization . In response to receiving the return data packets classifier may route the indication of the requested action to the appropriate entity element or component within communication network to determine whether the requested action is to be fulfilled.

In regards to the internal structure associated with communication system each of service gateway control and classifier can include memory elements for storing information to be used in achieving the operations as outlined herein. Additionally each of these devices may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform the activities as discussed in this Specification. These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element random access memory RAM read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. The information being tracked or sent to service gateway control and classifier could be provided in any database register control list cache or storage structure all of which can be referenced at any suitable timeframe. Any such storage options may be included within the broad term memory element as used herein in this Specification. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements and mobile nodes can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that in certain example implementations the functions outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances memory elements as shown in can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory elements being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processors as shown in could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an EPROM an EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

Note that with the examples provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that communication system and its teachings are readily scalable and further can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of communication system as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

It is also important to note that the previously described activities illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by or within communication system . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by communication system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and signaling protocols communication system may be applicable to other exchanges routing protocols or routed protocols. Moreover although communication system has been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication system .

In a separate endeavor communication system may generally be configured or arranged to represent a 3G architecture applicable to UMTS environments in accordance with a particular embodiment. However the 3G architecture is offered for purposes of example only and may alternatively be substituted with any suitable networking system or arrangement that provides a communicative platform for communication system . Moreover the present disclosure is equally applicable to other cellular and or wireless technology including CDMA Wi Fi WiMAX etc.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

