---

title: Aerosol generator and method
abstract: An aerosol generator includes a first body having a first end including an exit opening, and an oppositely positioned second end. An open channel second body is substantially positioned inside the first body and extends from the first end to the second end of the first body. An exit opening of the second body is positioned adjacent to the exit opening of the first end of the first body. An insert, which holds material to be aerosolized, is at least partially positioned inside the second body. An inlet opening receives compressed air into the first body. The compressed air flows towards the exit opening of the first end of the first body. The air flow creates a region of low pressure at the exit opening of the second body. The region of low pressure pulls the material out from the second body and aerosolizes the material. The aerosol generator is particularly effective in generating aerosols from small amounts of solid and liquid materials with minimal losses of material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533319&OS=09533319&RS=09533319
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09533319
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140528
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments herein generally relate to aerosol generators and more particularly to aerosol generators used to aerosolize small amounts of powders and liquids with minimum losses.

Many aerosol generators are available to aerosolize liquid and dry powder materials. Generally all of these generators are designed for large quantities of materials and have significant losses in the generator. Sonic nozzles collision nebulizers and other medical nebulizers use a high air flow rate to aerosolize the material. These systems typically require gram quantities of material and have significant losses in the components that carry the powder or liquid through the generator. Accordingly there remains a need for an aerosol generator that can aerosolize small amounts of powders and liquids with minimal losses.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides an aerosol generator comprising a first body comprising a first end having an exit opening and a second end positioned opposite to the first end. The aerosol generator further comprises an open channel second body substantially positioned inside the first body and extending from the first end of the first body to the second end of the first body wherein an exit opening of the second body is positioned adjacent to the exit opening of the first end of the first body an insert at least partially positioned inside the second body wherein the insert is configured to hold material to be aerosolized and an inlet opening that receives compressed air into the first body wherein the compressed air flows towards the exit opening of the first end of the first body wherein the air flow creates a region of low pressure at the exit opening of the second body and wherein the region of low pressure pulls the material out from the second body and aerosolizes the material. Any of the first body and the second body may comprise a cylindrical tube.

The insert may comprise any of a tube and a flat sheet. The insert may comprise a groove. The material may comprise a mass of less than approximately 10 mg. The material may comprise any of a solid and a liquid. The exit opening of the second body may be smaller than the exit opening of the first end of the first body. Greater than approximately 97 of the material may be aerosolized. The compressed air may comprise a pressure of approximately 20 psi and may comprise an air flow rate of approximately 160 Lpm and the air flow may occur for approximately one second. The inlet opening may be located proximate to the second end of the first body.

Another embodiment provides an aerosol generator comprising a first tube having an open first end and a closed second end and a second tube substantially positioned inside the first tube and having a continuous open channel extending from a first end to a second end of the second tube wherein an open first end of the second tube is substantially aligned with the open first end of the first tube and wherein the second tube houses material to be aerosolized wherein the first tube receives compressed air that flows towards the open first end of the first tube wherein the air flow creates a region of low pressure at the open first end of the second tube and wherein the region of low pressure pulls the material out from the second tube and aerosolizes the material. The aerosol generator may further comprise an insert at least partially positioned inside the second tube and comprising an end aligned with the open first end of the second tube wherein the insert is configured to hold the material wherein the insert comprises any of a tube or a flat sheet and wherein the insert includes a groove. The material may comprise a mass of less than approximately 10 mg. The material may comprise any of a solid and a liquid. The open first end of the second tube may be smaller than the open first end of the first tube. Greater than approximately 97 of the material may be aerosolized. The compressed air may comprise a pressure of approximately 20 psi and may comprise an air flow rate of approximately 160 Lpm and the air flow may occur for approximately one second.

Another embodiment provides a method of aerosolizing material the method comprising receiving compressed air in a first body of an aerosol generator wherein the aerosol generator comprises the first body and a second body positioned substantially within the first body wherein the first body and the second body each comprise an exit opening adjacent to one another wherein the exit opening of the first body is around the exit opening of the second body and wherein the second body houses material to be aerosolized configuring the first body to direct the compressed air towards the exit opening of the first body creating a region of low pressure at the exit opening of the second body by a stream of compressed air being discharged from the exit opening of the first body the region of low pressure pulling the material out from the second body into the stream of compressed air being discharged from the exit opening of the first body and aerosolizing the material. The material may comprise any of a solid and a liquid comprising a mass of less than approximately 10 mg. The compressed air may comprise a pressure of approximately 20 psi and may comprise an air flow rate of approximately 160 Lpm.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide an aerosol generator used to aerosolize small amounts of powders and liquids and in particular provides an aerosol generator used to aerosolize milligram quantities e.g. 

The second body is configured as an open channel body to permit the insert to be inserted therein for placing the material inside the second body . An inlet opening which is located proximate to the second end of the first body receives compressed air into the first body wherein the compressed air flows towards the exit opening of the first end of the first body wherein the air flow creates a region of low pressure at the exit opening of the second body and wherein the region of low pressure pulls the material out from the second body and aerosolizes the material .

In one embodiment any of the first body and the second body comprises a cylindrical tube. The material may comprise any of a solid e.g. powder and a liquid e.g. liquid droplets . The aerosol generator can aerosolize any quantity of material . In one example embodiment the amount of material comprises a mass of less than approximately 10 mg. The exit opening of the second body is smaller than the exit opening of the first end of the first body . Moreover the insert may comprise any of a tube e.g. a copper tube etc. or a flat sheet that slides into the second body . In one embodiment the insert includes a groove that holds the material which can assist in holding even smaller quantities of material . When the insert is embodied as a flat sheet the sheet may comprise any sturdy material including for example overhead transparency sheets which have very low weight to accurately measure a small amount of material thereon. A sharp object not shown can be used to make an indent e.g. groove on the sheet for the placement of the material .

In accordance with the embodiments herein greater than 97 of the material is aerosolized e.g. aerosol . The losses e.g. 97 of the material is effectively aerosolized with 

In one example embodiment the aerosol generator may be configured using the following configurations and dimensions which are merely provided as example configurations and dimensions and the embodiments herein are not restricted to these particular configurations and dimensions. The first body may be configured as a cylindrical tube with a length of approximately 1.7 inches and a diameter of approximately 1.5 inches. The exit opening shown as y in may be configured with a diameter of approximately 0.2 inches. The second tube may be configured as a cylindrical tube with a length of approximately 2.9 inches and a diameter of approximately 0.15 inches. The inlet opening for receiving the compressed air may be configured as a cylindrical tube with a length of approximately 1.0 inch and a diameter of approximately 0.5 inches. In the length of x the length from connector to the front end of the first body is approximately 0.4 inches in one example embodiment.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

