---

title: Compartmentalized smart refrigerator with automated item management
abstract: A smart refrigerator system includes a plurality of compartments for storing food items and one or more tag readers. The smart refrigerator system may read a tag coupled to a food item using one of one or more tag readers. The smart refrigerator system may determine an identity of the food item, an associated date of the food item, and/or a compartment containing the food item. The smart refrigerator system may track item information that includes the identity of the food item, a state of the food item, and/or a compartment location of the food item. The smart refrigerator system may receive item usage information indicating when a user plans to use the food item and change a temperature of the food item. The smart refrigerator system may also generate a notification regarding freshness and/or a spoilage level of the food item and present it to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449208&OS=09449208&RS=09449208
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09449208
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141203
---
The present invention relates to refrigerators and more particularly to smart refrigerators providing automated management of stored items.

Refrigerators include a thermally insulated unit and a cooling system to keep contents in the unit at a cooler temperature than the ambient temperature. The cool temperature maintains freshness of food items. Smart refrigerators may provide internet access and maintain a food inventory using a touchscreen display panel. However the food inventory is typically manually entered by a user through the touchscreen display panel which can be inconvenient for users.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods for a compartmentalized smart refrigerator providing automated item management.

In various embodiments a smart refrigerator system includes a plurality of compartments for containing food items and one or more tag readers configured to read a tag associated with each food item. Each food item may have an associated tag that is for example adhesively attached to the food item attached to the food item using a tag fastener included in a container or wrapper of the food item embedded in the container or wrapper of the food item or otherwise coupled to the food item. A compartment may be for example a shelf a drawer a bin a crisper a container a box or other compartment. Each compartment may include one or more tag readers to provide automatic reading of tags when the food items are placed in the compartments. When a user places food items in the compartments the smart refrigerator system identifies each food item and an associated date for each food item e.g. an expiration date a use by date a best before date a sell by date etc. in response to the tag readers reading tags coupled to the food items. The smart refrigerator system may further determine which compartment each food item is located in based on which of the tag readers detects the tag for each food item.

In various embodiments the smart refrigerator system tracks each of the food items stored in the smart refrigerator system in an item database. The smart refrigerator system may track the identity of the food item an associated date of the food item a state of the food item including freshness and or a spoilage level a compartment at which the food item is located and or an amount of the food item that is left. The smart refrigerator system may determine the state of the food item based on for example the associated date of the food item how long after the associated date the food item is fresh or safe to eat detection of gas produced by deterioration or spoilage of the food item using chemical sensors a temperature in the refrigerator or a compartment containing the food item a time at which the food item is opened a number of times the food item is taken out of the refrigerator how long an item is outside the refrigerator and or an ambient temperature outside the refrigerator while the item is outside.

In various embodiments the smart refrigerator system may determine item usage information indicating which food items a user plans to use or is expected to use and when the user plans to use or is expected to use the food items. For example the item usage information may indicate that a user may need a certain food item in the near future so should be thawed or that a user may not need a certain food item in the near future so should be frozen. The user may enter the item usage information on a refrigerator display or on a user device which transmits the item usage information to the smart refrigerator system. For example the user may enter which food items the user plans to use for dinner or may enter a dinner menu so that the smart refrigerator can determine which food items will be needed for such dinner menu. The smart refrigerator system may determine which food items are to be changed in temperature e.g. thawed frozen etc. based on the item usage information. In an embodiment each compartment has an independent temperature control such that the temperature of each compartment may be changed. The smart refrigerator system may change the temperature of the compartment containing the food items to be changed in temperature. In other embodiments the smart refrigerator system may physically move the food items to be changed in temperature or the compartments containing such food items to an area with a different temperature e.g. a thawing area for example using a conveyor system a robotic hand or a food item release and chute system.

In various embodiments the smart refrigerator system may determine that a food item will deteriorate in quality and or spoil soon or has deteriorated in quality and or has spoiled based on tracking the state of each food item. The smart refrigerator system may generate a notification regarding the deterioration in quality spoiling and present the notification to a user on a refrigerator display or on a user device. The smart refrigerator system may further determine that a user is low on a certain food item e.g. based on the weight of the item measured by weight sensors and or an image of the item captured by image sensors such as a camera and present the notification to the user on a refrigerator display or on a user device. The smart refrigerator system may provide an option to purchase such food item from a merchant and make a payment through a service provider.

Referring now to a block diagram of a hardware environment of an exemplary smart refrigerator system is illustrated. Smart refrigerator system may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating data which interconnects subsystems and components including a user interface a display panel a plurality of tag readers one or more sensors one or more processors or processing components e.g. a microprocessor microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a storage component e.g. a static storage drive such as ROM and a network interface circuit .

A user may interact with smart refrigerator system using user interface . User interface in an embodiment may include an input component such as a touchscreen e.g. touchscreen component of display panel a remote control a keyboard or other input component. In an embodiment user interface may be provided at least in part by a graphic user interface GUI provided on display panel or a user device . User may interact with smart refrigerator system using user device communicatively coupled to smart refrigerator system via a network and or via short range wireless communication such as Bluetooth communications Near Field Communication NFC or Wi Fi communications.

Display panel in an embodiment is configured to present visual content. Display panel includes a pixel array. Each pixel may be manipulated and have an address corresponding to its physical coordinates. Display panel may be a light emitting diode LED display panel organic light emitting diode OLED display panel liquid crystal LCD display panel plasma display panel PDP cathode ray tube CRT display panel or other display panel. Display panel may be flat or curved and may have a rectangular shape round shape or other shape.

Display panel in an embodiment may include a touchscreen component to provide user interface . User may touch display panel to interact with visual content presented on display panel . Touch input may be detected by the touchscreen component based on capacitive or resistive changes in vertical and horizontal conductive lines of the touchscreen component which traverse display panel at the location of the touch.

One or more tag readers in an embodiment are configured to read tags coupled to items. Tag readers may be Near Field Communications NFC readers or Radio Frequency Identification RFID readers configured to read respectively NFC tags or RFID tags by transmitting a radio signal to the tags and receiving a modulated signal from the tags. In other embodiments tag reader may be a barcode scanner configured to scan a barcode such as a Universal Product Code UPC a Quick Response QR code or other barcode. In a further embodiment tag reader may be a Bluetooth communication device configured to read Bluetooth tags.

Tag readers in an embodiment may receive information indicating an identity of an item and or an associated date of the item from a tag coupled to the item. The associated date may include an expiration date a use by date a best before date and or a sell by date. In another embodiment tag readers may determine a uniquely assigned item identifier e.g. a number letters or alphanumeric code in response to receiving a modulated signal or scanning a barcode. The uniquely assigned item identifier may be used to look up the identity of the item and or the associated date.

Tag readers in an embodiment are each coupled to a compartment for storing items. Smart refrigerator system may include a plurality of compartments inside the refrigerator and one or more of the compartments may include one or more tag readers . In certain embodiments each of the compartments includes one or more tag readers . Each tag reader for example may be located within under behind in front of along the edges of or otherwise disposed on in or around the respective compartment. Tag readers may be located at various positions relative to the compartments such that tag readers are capable of reading or scanning tags coupled to items. The plurality of tag readers may include an array of tag readers arranged in rows and columns that span the interior of the refrigerator. However this is merely exemplary and the tag readers may be arranged in any arrangement or shape and or may span a part of the refrigerator. In another embodiment tag readers are located on the outside of the refrigerator such as on a door of the refrigerator.

Tag readers in an embodiment include an NFC transceiver circuitry or an RFID transceiver circuitry and may also include respectively an NFC antenna or an RFID antenna. NFC readers and NFC tags RFID readers and RFID tags and or other readers and tags may implement standards such as ECMA 340 NFCIP 1 ECMA 352 NFCIP 2 ISO IEC 18000 ISO IEC 18092 ISO IEC 21481 ISO IEC 14443 ISO IEC 14443A ISO IEC 14443B ISO IEC 15693 JIS X6319 4 and FeliCa. However it is contemplated that other short range wireless communication technologies and standards e.g. Bluetooth low energy etc. may be utilized and fall within the scope of the present disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the use of NFC and or RFID between tag readers and tags may be advantageously utilized to provide for low power communication and also provide an automated identification of items.

Each tag reader in an embodiment is configured to detect a tag coupled to an item when the tag is within the range of tag reader e.g. within 2 cm within 5 cm within 10 cm within 20 cm etc. . Each tag reader may create a communication area in which a tag is detected. The communication area may cover for example a spherical region around tag reader . When the tag is placed in the communication area of tag reader tag reader may detect the tag and exchange data with the tag.

One or more sensors in an embodiment include temperature sensors configured to measure and monitor a temperature. One or more of the compartments for storing food items may include a temperature sensor configured to measure the temperature in the respective compartments. A temperature sensor may also be placed on or outside the refrigerator to measure the ambient temperature outside the refrigerator. In another embodiment sensors may include chemical sensors configured to detect and monitor the air for chemical substances produced by spoiling of perishable food items. For example items may deteriorate and or be spoiled by chemical reactions and or microorganisms e.g. bacteria fungi such as yeast or mold etc. and produce gas that are emitted from the items into the air. One or more of the compartments for storing food items may include a chemical sensor configured to detect and monitor the air in the respective compartments for gas emitted by the items. In a further embodiment one or more of the compartments for storing items may include a weight sensor configured to determine a weight of the items in the respective compartments an image sensor e.g. a visible light camera configured to capture an image of the items in the respective compartments and or a motion sensor configured to detect opening and closing of the respective compartments. In certain embodiments each of the compartments of smart refrigerator system may include a temperature sensor a chemical sensor a weight sensor an image sensor and or a motion sensor.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure smart refrigerator system performs specific operations by processor or processing component executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as storage component . These may include instructions for example to operate tag readers to detect a tag coupled to an item within its respective communication area and read the tag to determine an identity of the item. In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of one or more embodiments of the disclosure.

Storage component in an embodiment contains one or more databases for storing item data and information such as an identity of the item description of the item associated date of the item and or other item information. Storage component may also contain one or more databases for user data and information such as personal information e.g. user login user s age user s location etc. user account information user interest data sensor data e.g. sensor data from sensors of user device and or other user data and information. Storage component may store an association between each tag reader and a respective compartment to which each tag reader is coupled. In another embodiment storage component is configured to store an address for each tag reader which may correspond to its physical coordinates.

Processor in an embodiment may use one of one or more tag readers to detect a tag coupled to an item identify the item and determine an associated date of the item by receiving item related information e.g. associated dates of the item . Processor may determine a compartment containing the item based on which tag reader detects the tag. In another embodiment processor may use tag reader located outside the refrigerator to identify the item and determine which compartment contains the item based on which container had been opened e.g. using motion sensors .

Processor in an embodiment may receive chemical data from a chemical sensor of a compartment for containing food items compare the chemical data with data for a corresponding type of food item in a chemical database on storage component and determine a state of the items such as food quality and food spoilage of the food items in the compartment. In another embodiment processor may receive weight data from a weight sensor of a compartment for containing food items and determine a quantity of the food items in the compartment.

Smart refrigerator system in an embodiment includes network interface circuit that is coupled to network . Smart refrigerator system may transmit and receive data information messages and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through network interface circuit and a communication link . Smart refrigerator system may also include other components such as a Bluetooth device NFC device and or a Wi Fi device configured to communicate with user device .

Referring now to a diagram of a front side elevational view of smart refrigerator system with its doors closed is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system includes doors for a freezer side and a refrigeration side and handles for each door . Display panel and or user interface may be mounted on a side of smart refrigerator system such as on door . Smart refrigerator system may include network interface circuit which may not be visible from the exterior to provide network connectivity to user interface and or communicate with a user device such as user device .

Referring now to a diagram of a front side elevational view of a smart refrigerator system with its doors open is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system includes a plurality of compartments containing food items and one or more tag readers . The plurality of compartments may include a shelf a drawer a bin a crisper a container a box and or other compartments.

Each compartment in an embodiment may include one or more tag readers configured to detect tags coupled to food items . Each compartment may be configured to have independent temperature control such that each compartment is capable of being set at a different temperature from another compartment. Each compartment may include a temperature sensor one or more independently controlled fans and one or more air vents and or ducts. Each compartment may be insulated and or include a heating component e.g. using a heating element or microwave to provide further temperature control. A processor such as processor may determine a target temperature of item and operate compartment to change the temperature of the compartment containing item .

Each compartment in an embodiment may include a shutter system to shut the one or more air vents and or ducts. A processor such as processor may determine that item in compartment has spoiled and operate compartment containing item to seal compartment by shutting the air vents and or ducts. Accordingly smart refrigerator system may quarantine item to prevent or deter the spread of microorganisms to other compartments e.g. bacteria fungi such as yeast or mold etc. . However this is merely exemplary and it is contemplated that the compartment may be sealed by other suitable mechanisms known in the art.

Referring now to a diagram showing communication areas of respective tag readers of smart refrigerator system is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Dashed lines are used for communication areas to indicate that communication areas may not be visible as in . In an embodiment communication areas are regions in the vicinity of respective tag readers such as an area enclosed by a range of each tag reader . Tag readers may have a predetermined range e.g. 2 cm 5 cm 10 cm 20 cm etc. . The range of tag readers may be configured depending on how compacted or spread apart tag readers are arranged from each other. Smart refrigerator system may identify item coupled to a tag and determine which compartment contains the item such as by a compartment location based on which of tag readers detects the tag.

Referring now to a diagram of a front side elevational view of a smart refrigerator system with its doors open is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system includes a plurality of compartments containing food items one or more tag readers a robotic component and one or more areas with a different temperature from other areas of the refrigerator such as thawing area .

In an embodiment robotic component includes a conveyor system and a rail system on which compartments may be moved. A processor such as processor may decide to change a temperature of item and operate the conveyor system to move compartment containing item to an area with a different temperature such as thawing area . In another embodiment robotic component may include a robotic hand configured to hold item or compartment . In an example the robotic hand may move item out of compartment and move it to another compartment or an area with a different temperature. In another example the robotic hand may move compartment to an area with a different temperature. A processor such as processor may decide to change a temperature of item and operate the robotic hand to move item or compartment containing item to an area with a different temperature such as thawing area . However these mechanisms for robotic component are merely exemplary and robotic component may implement other mechanisms known in the art suitable to move compartments and or items .

In a further embodiment a processor such as processor may determine that item in compartment has spoiled and operate robotic component to move item or compartment containing item to a quarantine area or quarantine compartment. Accordingly smart refrigerator system may quarantine item to prevent or deter the spread of microorganisms to other compartments e.g. bacteria fungi such as yeast or mold etc. .

Referring now to a diagram of a front side elevational view of a smart refrigerator system with its doors open is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system includes a plurality of compartments containing food items one or more tag readers a chute system one or more areas with a different temperature from other areas of the refrigerator such as thawing area . In an embodiment one or more compartments include an opening below or on the side of compartments a movable cover structure covering the opening a dispensing system configured to move cover to release items contained in compartments into chute system . Chute system guides released items to an area with a different temperature such as thawing area .

Referring now to an embodiment of a network based system for implementing one or more processes described in the present disclosure is illustrated. As shown network based system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

The embodiment of the networked system illustrated in includes smart refrigerator system one or more user devices e.g. a mobile phone a smartphone a wearable device etc. one or more service provider servers or devices e.g. network server devices and one or more merchant servers or devices in communication over network . Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments smart refrigerator system user device service provider server and merchant server may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

Smart refrigerator system in various embodiments includes tag reader modules configured to read or scan tags coupled to items and a network interface module that is communicatively coupled to network . Tag reader modules and network interface module may be communicatively coupled to any or all of an inventory management module a monitoring module a control module and a notification module any of which may be coupled to a storage module . Any or all of the modules may be implemented as a subsystem of smart refrigerator system including a circuit a hardware component a hardware subcomponent and or a variety of other subsystems known in the art. For example any or all of the modules and may be implemented using any or all of the hardware components described in . Furthermore any or all of the modules may be preconfigured to perform their disclosed functionality or may be configured by a processing system on the fly or as needed to perform their disclosed functionality. As such any or all of the modules may include pre configured and dedicated circuits and or hardware components or may be circuits and or hardware components that are configured as needed.

For example any or all of the modules may be provided via one or more circuits that include resistors inductors capacitors voltage sources current sources switches logic gates registers and or a variety of other circuit elements known in the art. One or more of the circuit elements in a circuit may be configured to provide the circuit s that cause the modules to perform the functions described below. As such in some embodiments preconfigured and dedicated circuits may be implemented to perform the functions of the modules. In other embodiments a processing system may execute instructions on a non transitory computer readable medium to configure one or more circuits as needed to perform the functions of the modules.

Tag reader modules may be included as a separate module provided in smart refrigerator system or may include communications hardware e.g. antennas and instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in smart refrigerator system configure tag reader modules to operate the communications hardware to read or scan tags coupled to items as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. In an embodiment tag reader modules may be implemented at least in part as tag readers in . Network interface module may be included as a separate module provided in smart refrigerator system or may include communications hardware e.g. antennas and instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in smart refrigerator system configure network interface module to operate the communications hardware to send and receive information over network as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. In an embodiment network interface module may be implemented at least in part as network interface circuit in .

Inventory management module may be included as a separate module provided in smart refrigerator system or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in smart refrigerator system configure inventory management module to operate tag reader module to track item information for an item including an identity of the item a state of the item quantity of the item and or a location of the compartment containing the item and store the item information in an item inventory database on storage module as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. Monitoring module may be included as a separate module provided in smart refrigerator system or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in smart refrigerator system configure monitoring module to monitor a state of an item based on an associated date of the item how long after the associated date the item is fresh or safe detection of gas produced by deterioration or spoilage of the item using chemical sensors a number of times a door of the refrigerator is opened and closed a temperature of the refrigerator or the compartment containing the item a time at which the item is first opened or taken outside the refrigerator a number of times the item is taken outside how long an item is outside and or a temperature outside while the item is outside as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. Control module may be included as a separate module provided in smart refrigerator system or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in smart refrigerator system configure control module to operate temperature control of a compartment or operate a robotic component e.g. a conveyor system or a robotic hand to change a temperature of an item as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. Notification module may be included as a separate module provided in smart refrigerator system or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in smart refrigerator system configure notification module to generate a notification based on item information for an item and provide the notification to user such as by presenting the notification on display panel or on user device as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein.

Other modules discussed herein but not illustrated in may be provided as separate modules on smart refrigerator system or using instructions stored on a computer readable medium similarly as discussed above. While storage module has been illustrated as located in smart refrigerator system one of skill in the art will recognize that it may include multiple storage modules and may be connected to other modules through network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In an embodiment storage module may be implemented as storage component in .

User device in various embodiments may be utilized by user to interact with smart refrigerator system over network . User device may also be utilized by user to interact with service provider server and or merchant server over network . User device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . In various embodiments user devices may include at least one of a smartphone wireless cellular phone satellite phone tablet laptop computer notebook computer hybrid convertible computer and or other types of mobile computing devices. In other embodiments user devices may include at least one of a wearable device such as an activity tracker e.g. a fitness tracker a health tracker etc. smart watch eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware resources and or other types of wearable computing devices. User devices may include a user interface module one or more user identifiers a location module one or more sensors a storage module and a network interface module .

In various implementations user is able to input data and information into an input component e.g. a touchscreen a keyboard a microphone etc. of user device to provide personal information user interest information user identification information and other user data and or information.

User interface module in an embodiment may be utilized by user to access applications to view data or information on a display and to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding etc. with service provider server and or merchant server over network . In one aspect user may login to an account associated with user and purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from the account via user interface module .

In one implementation user interface module includes a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with service provider server via network . In another implementation user interface module comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over network . For example user interface module may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over network .

In an example user is able to access merchant websites via one or more merchant servers to view and select items for purchase and the user is able to purchase items from one or more merchant servers via service provider server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more items from one or more merchant servers via service provider server .

User device in an embodiment may include other modules as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to user . In one example such other modules may include security modules for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software modules. In still other examples the other modules may interface with user interface module for improved efficiency and convenience.

One or more user identifiers in an embodiment may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with user interface module identifiers associated with hardware of user device or various other appropriate identifiers. User identifier may include one or more attributes related to user such as personal information related to user e.g. one or more of names user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers a social security number etc. banking information financial information and or funding source information e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various embodiments identifier data that includes user identifier may be transmitted from user device to smart refrigerator system via network. In other embodiments identifier data that includes user identifier may be transmitted with a user login request e.g. user login data to service provider server via network and service provider server may use the identifier data to associate user with a particular user account maintained by service provider server .

Location module in an embodiment determines tracks monitors and or provides an instant geographical location of user device . In one implementation the geographical location may include GPS coordinates zip code information area code information street address information and or various other generally known types of location data or information. In various embodiments location data may be automatically obtained and or provided by user device via an internal or external monitoring component such as global positioning system GPS which uses satellite based positioning assisted GPS A GPS which uses cell tower information to improve reliability and accuracy of GPS based positioning and Wi Fi based positioning. In other embodiments location data may be obtained based on communications between user device and a device at the location such as smart refrigerator system in or a check in device e.g. a beacon device . This may help to save battery life and allow for better indoor location. In further embodiments location information may be directly entered into user device by user via a user input component such as a keyboard touch display and or voice recognition microphone.

Sensors in an embodiment may include an accelerometer a gyroscope a pedometer a heart rate monitor one or more cameras and other sensors. An accelerometer that measures acceleration and a gyroscope that measures orientation may be used together to measure movement orientation and or activity of user device . A pedometer may measure the number of steps taken by user . A heart rate monitor may measure a heart rate of user . A camera may be used by user to take pictures. The camera may be used to take pictures of food items and or scan barcodes coupled to the food items. Sensors may generate sensor data in response to the measurements. A processor of user device may receive the sensor data by accessing and or communicating with sensors . The processor of user device may process analyze infer from and or interpret the sensor data to generate further sensor data or determine other data or information based on the sensor data. For example user device may determine calories burned based on the activity the steps taken and or the heart rate. In another example user device may determine an identity of a food item nutritional value associated dates of the food item or other item information by accessing an item information database e.g. on service provider server based on the picture of the food item or the scanned barcode. Such determination may supplement tag reader modules of smart refrigerator system identifying food items when the food item is not coupled to a tag e.g. fruits or vegetables that may not be tagged .

Storage module in an embodiment may store data and information. Storage module may contain one or more databases in which to store the data and information. User device may locally store user account information and or sensor data in a database on storage module .

Network interface module in an embodiment communicates with other devices or servers over network . For example user device may communicate with smart refrigerator system service provider server and merchant server via network interface module exchanging data with a network interface module of respective devices or servers over network .

In one aspect when interfacing with user device user may elect and or consent to provide personal information user interest data sensor data location data and or other user data or information to service provider server and or merchant server . User may set or configure the user settings configuration menu of user interface module of user device . Through the user settings configuration menu user may provide consent to share user data or information and the extent of shared user data or information. User device may transmit shared user data or information dynamically by push synchronization periodically or each time an application associated with service provider server or merchant server is opened by user . In some embodiments user may be prompted for permission to release user data or information. Accordingly user may have exclusive authority to allow transmission of personal information user interest data sensor data and or location data from the user device to service provider server and or merchant server .

Service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a service provider such as an online service provider or a transaction processing entity that provides processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between user and one or more of merchant servers . As such service provider server includes a service module which may be adapted to interact with the user device over network to facilitate the searching selection purchase and or payment of items by user from one or more merchant servers . In one example service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. or eBay Inc. in San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

Service module in one embodiment utilizes a payment processing module to process purchases and or payments for financial transactions between user and each of merchant servers . In one implementation payment processing module assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. As such service module in conjunction with the payment processing module settles indebtedness between user and each of merchant servers wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

Service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database on storage module each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. user and merchants. For example account information may include private financial information of user and merchants e.g. one or more merchants associated with merchant servers such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between user and one or more merchants associated with merchant servers . Account information may also include personal information such as one or more contact information e.g. phone number address email etc. and other account IDs of user that are maintained by third parties e.g. user names or account numbers . In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation user may have identity attributes stored with service provider server and user may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding source information. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by service provider server to associate user with one or more particular user accounts maintained by service provider server .

One or more merchant servers in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more business entities that offer various items such as goods and or services for purchase and payment e.g. a supermarket a grocery store a drugstore a convenience store a farmers market a discount retailer a restaurant a caf or other merchant or in some cases by a partner of a business entity that processes transactions on behalf of business entities. The business entities may maintain a merchant website through which the various items are offered for purchase and payment. In some embodiments business entities may need registration of user identity information as part of offering items to user over network . As such each of one or more merchant servers may include a merchant database on a storage module for identifying available items which may be made available at least in part to smart refrigerator system and or user device for viewing and purchase by user . In one or more embodiments user may complete a transaction such as purchasing the items via service provider server .

Each of merchant servers in one embodiment may include a marketplace module which may be configured to provide data or information to smart refrigerator system and or user device over network . For example marketplace module may transmit item data or information to smart refrigerator system which presents the item data or information on display panel or user device . User may interact with marketplace module through user interface of smart refrigerator system and or user interface module of user device to search and view various items available for purchase in the merchant database on storage module .

Each of merchant servers in one embodiment may include at least one merchant identifier which may be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that for example particular items are associated with particular merchants. In one implementation merchant identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the merchant such as business and banking information. Merchant identifier may include attributes related to merchant server such as identification information e.g. a serial number a location address GPS coordinates a network identification number etc. . In various embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. searching selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for items with each merchant server via service provider server over network .

A merchant website in an embodiment may be maintained by a merchant and communicate e.g. using merchant server with service provider server over network . For example the merchant website may communicate with service provider server in the course of various services offered by service provider server to the merchant website such as payment intermediary between customers of the merchant website and the merchant website itself. The merchant website may use an application programming interface API that allows it to offer sale of goods in which customers are allowed to make payment through service provider server while user may have an account with service provider server that allows user to use service provider server for making payments to merchants that allow use of authentication authorization and payment services of service provider server as a payment intermediary. The merchant website may also have an account with service provider server .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for managing items stored in compartments of a refrigerator is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

At block smart refrigerator system identifies food items and determines which compartment contains each of the food items. In an embodiment user may bring food items each coupled to a tag to smart refrigerator system and place the food items in at least one of a plurality of compartments of smart refrigerator system . One or more of the compartments may include one or more tag readers such as NFC readers or RFID readers configured to automatically read tags such as NFC tags or RFID tags within its communication area e.g. within 2 cm within 5 cm within 10 cm within 20 cm etc. . For example each of the compartments may include one or more tag readers . Each tag reader may have a communication area that is an area or a part of an area inside its respective compartment. Smart refrigerator system e.g. using processor and or inventory management module may determine an identity of each food item in response to at least one of tag readers reading the tag coupled to the food item which may include receiving identifying data from a tag. Smart refrigerator system may further determine which compartment contains each item based on which of the tag readers read the tag coupled to each item.

In another embodiment food items may be coupled to a tag such as a barcode e.g. UPC QR code etc. and user may scan the tag using tag reader such as a barcode reader located at a convenient location such as on a door of smart refrigerator system before placing the food items in compartments. Smart refrigerator system may determine an identity of each food item based on tag reader scanning a uniquely assigned item identifier from the tag e.g. UPC QR code etc. which is in turn used to look up item information from a database stored on smart refrigerator system on service provider server and or merchant server . One or more of the compartments may have a weight sensor a motion sensor and or an image sensor configured to detect that an item has been placed inside. Accordingly smart refrigerator system may further determine which compartment contains each item.

At block smart refrigerator system tracks food items in an item database. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system e.g. using processor and or inventory management module may track item information that includes an identity of each food item and a location of the compartment containing each food item in an item database on storage component . Smart refrigerator system may also track an amount of each food item that is left e.g. using weight sensors of each compartment and other food item related information such as a state of each food item e.g. quality and spoilage level of each food item .

At block smart refrigerator system determines item usage information. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system e.g. using processor and or control module may receive item usage information item indicating that user plans to use certain food items at a certain time from user . User may enter item usage information indicating what food items user may need and when user may need such food items on display panel of smart refrigerator system . User may also enter the item usage information on user device which may transmit the item usage information to smart refrigerator system . In other embodiments item usage information indicates that user is expected to use the item at a time based on item usage history of a user which may be when user had used certain food items in the past.

User may provide item usage information that includes a specific food item e.g. chicken frozen in a compartment of freezer or a menu item. User may further provide item usage information that includes a specific time e.g. by 6 pm or a general meal time e.g. breakfast lunch dinner at which user needs the food items. If user provides a menu item e.g. chicken soup smart refrigerator system may look up recipes from a recipe database stored on smart refrigerator system service provider server and or merchant server to determine which food items e.g. chicken and vegetables user will need. If there are food items needed for the menu item that user does not have in smart refrigerator system the smart refrigerator system may notify user so that user may buy such food items. In some embodiments smart refrigerator system provides the option to buy food items that user does not have from merchant server via display panel of smart refrigerator system or via user device .

At block smart refrigerator system determines food items to be placed at a different temperature. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system e.g. using processor and or control module may determine which food items needed by user at a certain time need to be placed at a different temperature based on the usage information. For example smart refrigerator system may receive item usage information that includes a menu item e.g. chicken soup determine food items needed for the item menu e.g. chicken and vegetables and determine food items that must be placed at a different temperature e.g. frozen chicken must be thawed and food items that do not need to be placed at a different temperature e.g. vegetables can be left at refrigerated temperature .

At block smart refrigerator system places food items in a different temperature. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system includes compartments capable of being set at different temperatures using independent temperature controls as described in . Smart refrigerator system e.g. using processor and or control module may operate temperature controls of compartments containing the food items to be placed at a different temperature to change the temperature of the compartment. In another embodiment smart refrigerator system includes robotic component such as robotic component as described in . Smart refrigerator system may operate robotic component e.g. a conveyor system or a robotic hand to move the food items or compartments containing the food items to an area with a different temperature. In a further embodiment smart refrigerator system includes compartments capable of releasing contained food items such as chute system as described in . Smart refrigerator system may operate chute system to release and drop the food items to an area with a different temperature.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for managing item inventory is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

At block smart refrigerator system identifies items and an associated date of each item such as an expiration date a use by date a best before date and or a sell by date. In an embodiment user may place the food items coupled to tags in at least one of a plurality of compartments of smart refrigerator system . One or more compartments may include one or more tag readers such as NFC readers or RFID readers configured to automatically read tags such as NFC tags or RFID tags within its communication area e.g. within 2 cm within 5 cm within 10 cm within 20 cm etc. . For example each of the compartments may include one or more tag readers . Each tag reader may have a communication area that is an area or a part of an area inside its respective compartment. Smart refrigerator system e.g. using processor and or inventory management module may determine an identity of each food item and an associated date of each food item in response to at least one of tag readers reading the tag coupled to the item which may include receiving identifying data and associated date data from a tag.

In another embodiment food items may be coupled to a tag such as a barcode e.g. UPC QR code etc. and user may scan the tag using tag reader such as a barcode reader located at a convenient location such as on a door of smart refrigerator system before placing the food items in compartments. Smart refrigerator system may determine an identity of each food item and an associated date of each food item based on tag reader scanning a uniquely assigned item identifier from a tag e.g. UPC QR code etc. which is in turn used to look up the identity and the associated date from a database stored on smart refrigerator system on service provider server and or merchant server .

At block smart refrigerator system tracks items in an item database. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system e.g. using processor and or inventory management module may track item information that includes an identity of each food item and a state of each food item in an item database on storage component . In some embodiments refrigerator system may further track an amount of each food item e.g. using weight sensors and or image sensors .

The state of each food may include freshness of the food item which relates to the quality of the food item and or a spoilage level of the food item which relates to food safety. Smart refrigerator system may determine the state of each food item based on the associated date of the food item how long after the associated date the food item is fresh or safe to eat detection of gas produced by deterioration or spoilage of the item using chemical sensors a temperature in the refrigerator or a compartment containing the food item a time at which the food item is opened a number of times the food item is taken outside of the refrigerator how long an item is outside and or an ambient outside temperature while the item is outside. Smart refrigerator system may access a freshness spoilage database to determine how long after the associated date the food item is fresh or safe to eat and other freshness spoilage related information to determine the state of each food item.

At block smart refrigerator system generates a notification based on the item information. In an embodiment smart refrigerator system e.g. by processor and or notification module generates a notification relating to freshness and or spoilage of a food item. For example if a food item e.g. milk will be going bad in the near future at a certain time e.g. 3 days from today smart refrigerator system may generate a notification indicating that the food item will go bad at the certain time. The amount of time in advance that smart refrigerator system notifies user of a food item going bad may depend on the type of the food item an amount of the food item left e.g. earlier warning if there is a large amount of the food item left or other food item related information. In some embodiments smart refrigerator system may generate a notification that a food item has spoiled and further quarantine the food item. For example smart refrigerator system may seal a compartment containing the spoiled food item by operating a shutter system of compartment e.g. a shutter system of compartment as described in . In another example smart refrigerator system may operate a robotic component e.g. robotic component as described in to move the compartment or the food item to a quarantine area.

In another embodiment smart refrigerator system may further suggest a menu item for a meal so that food item soon to deteriorate in quality and or spoil will be used before then. For example if refrigerated meat will spoil in 3 days smart refrigerator system may suggest a menu item that includes the meat so that user uses the meat before spoiling. Smart refrigerator system may search for relevant menus and their ingredients for example on service provider server via network .

In a further embodiment smart refrigerator system generates a notification when user has only a small amount of a food item left and will soon run out. Smart refrigerator system may include in the notification an option to buy food item that user is low on from merchant server via display panel of smart refrigerator system or via user device .

At block smart refrigerator system presents the notification to user . In an embodiment smart refrigerator system e.g. by processor and or notification module transmits notification data to display panel of smart refrigerator system and or user device. User may view the notification and use the food items accordingly to avoid deterioration in quality or spoiling of the food items.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the smart refrigerator system user device service provider server and merchant server is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by users service providers and or merchants in the system discussed above may be implemented as computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processor or processing component e.g. microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. light emitting diode LED display component organic light emitting diode OLED component liquid crystal LCD display component plasma display panel PDP cathode ray tube CRT display component or other display component an input component e.g. keyboard keypad virtual keyboard touchscreen etc. a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer trackball etc. a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art and or a sensor component . In one implementation disk drive component may include a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component such as described herein with respect to the smart refrigerator system user device service provider server and merchant server. Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component . Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

In view of the present disclosure it will be appreciated that various devices systems and methods have been described according to one or more embodiments for providing interaction between a user device and an interactive display system using near field communications.

Although various components and steps have been described herein as being associated with smart refrigerator system one or more user devices service provider server merchant server of it is contemplated that the various aspects of such devices and servers illustrated in may be distributed among a plurality of servers devices and or other entities.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor mobile device server and other devices described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

