---

title: Antifungal drugs
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642846&OS=09642846&RS=09642846
owner: Georgetown University
number: 09642846
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 793 090 filed Mar. 15 2013.

The documents cited or referenced herein herein cited documents and all documents cited or referenced in herein cited documents together with any manufacturer s instructions descriptions product specifications and product sheets for any products mentioned herein or in any document incorporated by reference herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference and may be employed in the practice of the invention.

Citation or identification of any document in this application is not an admission that such document is available as prior art to the present invention.

This invention was made in part with government support under grant number 1R21 AI090290 awarded by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease NIAID of the National Institutes of Health NIH . The government has certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates to methods of using chemical compounds that demonstrate broad spectrum activity against a variety of fungal infections. The chemical compounds of the invention may be administered to a subject for the treatment and or prevention of fungal infections.

Fungal infections are major causes of morbidity and mortality. In particular fungal infections can be life threatening for those with weakened immune systems. Severe systemic fungal infections such as candidiasis aspergillosis histoplasmosis blastomycosis and coccidioidomycosis are often acquired in hospital settings. Such infections are commonly seen in patients with suppressed immune systems.

For example patients at risk of fungal infection include neutropaenic patients following chemotherapy and in other oncology patients with immune suppression immune compromised due to Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome AIDS caused by HIV infection and in patients in intensive care. While there are treatments for candidiasis and aspergillosis these treatments are plagued by limited efficacy serious side effects high expense and often result in drug resistance.

Classes of established antifungal drugs on the market include 1 the polyenes e.g. amphotericin B nystatin natamycin 2 the azoles e.g. fluconazole itraconazole voriconazole 3 allylamines e.g. terbinafine and 4 the newly introduced echinocandins e.g. caspofungin . Of these classes only the polyenes azoles and echinocandins are used to treat systemic fungal infections. Each of the currently marketed antifungal drugs have major drawbacks including a lack of broad spectrum activity a lack of per oral absorption undesirable side effects low antifungal activity a lack of fungicidal activity drug drug interactions and high costs. Further the systemic antifungal amphotericin B is highly toxic when administered intravenously and its side effects include severe organ damage.

Therefore there is a pressing need for potent antifungals for both topical and systemic infections. Treatment failures and secondary drug resistance remain common with systemic mycoses. In particular antifungal drugs with broad spectrum activity against multiple species per oral absorption lower amount of side effects fungicidal activity no drug drug interactions or lower costs or a combination of these are desirable.

The present invention relates to new methods for the elimination and prophylaxis of fungal infections. The present invention provides for the treatment and prevention of fungal infections via the administration of chemical compounds and compositions described herein. In particular the chemical compounds of the present invention exhibit broad spectrum antifungal activity.

An embodiment of the present invention relates to the use and or administration of a compound of formula I 

In an embodiment the methods of the invention comprises the administration of a compound of formula I II III IV V or VI for the treatment or prevention of fungal infections.

The compounds of formula I are ions so they may be preferably present in salt form with a counter ion. Likewise compounds of formula II III IV V VI may be present in salt form.

In an embodiment the compound of formula I is a chloride Cl salt. In another embodiment the compound of formula I is a salt of 2 sulfoacetate 

Methods of treating and preventing yeast or fungal infections such as candidiasis aspergillosis and fluconazole resistant infections in a subject are also provided. The methods described herein may be used against fungal infections that have developed drug resistance to one or more antifungal drugs such as multi drug resistant fungal strains. The methods of the invention include administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the compounds and or compositions described herein.

The methods of the present invention relate to both local and systemic administration of the compounds of the invention. Compounds and compositions of the compounds described herein may be administered to a subject in need of antifungal treatment or prevention of fungal infection. A subject in need of antifungal treatment or prevention may be a subject suffering from one or more fungal infections or a subject that is at high risk for fungal infection. In some examples the subject in need of antifungal treatment or preventions is immunocompromised.

The methods of treating or preventing yeast or fungal infections as described herein can further include administering to the subject a second compound or composition wherein the second compound or composition includes an antifungal an antiviral or mixtures thereof e.g. a triazole a thiazole an imidazole a polyene an echinocandin an allylamine a nucleoside polymerase inhibitor a non nucleoside polymerase inhibitor a protease inhibitor a nucleoside or nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor a non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor an entry inhibitor an assembly inhibitor and mixtures thereof .

Combination treatments combining a compound of formula I II III IV V or VI with second antifungal compound may result in a synergistic effect between the two compounds. In a specific embodiment synergy is observed between a compound of formula I II III IV V or VI and a triazole a thiazole an imidazole a polyene an echinocandin or an allylamine antifungal may be observed in the treatment of a fungal infection.

Accordingly it is an object of the invention to not encompass within the invention any previously known product process of making the product or method of using the product such that Applicants reserve the right and hereby disclose a disclaimer of any previously known product process or method. It is further noted that the invention does not intend to encompass within the scope of the invention any product process or making of the product or method of using the product which does not meet the written description and enablement requirements of the USPTO 35 U.S.C. 112 first paragraph or the EPO Article 83 of the EPC such that Applicants reserve the right and hereby disclose a disclaimer of any previously described product process of making the product or method of using the product.

It is noted that in this disclosure and particularly in the claims and or paragraphs terms such as comprises comprised comprising and the like can have the meaning attributed to it in U.S. Patent law e.g. they can mean includes included including and the like and that terms such as consisting essentially of and consists essentially of have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. Patent law e.g. they allow for elements not explicitly recited but exclude elements that are found in the prior art or that affect a basic or novel characteristic of the invention.

Described herein are methods of using chemical compounds that demonstrate broad spectrum activity against yeast and or fungal pathogens. In particular the methods the invention may be useful for the treatment or prevention of infection by fungal pathogens such as candidiasis aspergillosis and fluconazole resistant infections. The methods of administration described herein relate to both the systemic and local treatment of fungal infection.

In particular the methods of the invention may be particularly valuable for the treatment and prevention of fungal infections in immunocompromised subjects as is illustrated in more detail below.

An embodiment of the present invention relates to the use and or administration of a compound of formula I 

In an embodiment of formula I each Ris independently a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl or two of the Rgroups are combined as CH or CH CH to form a 5 or 6 membered ring.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris CHor two Rgroups are combined as CH to form a 5 membered ring.

In an embodiment of formula I each Ris independently a substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl or the Rgroups are combined as CH or CH CH to form a 5 or 6 membered ring.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris CHor the Rgroups are combined as CH to form a 5 membered ring.

The compound of formula I may be administered as part of a pharmaceutical composition wherein the pharmaceutical composition further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

Salts of the compounds described in the foregoing. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts as used herein refers to those salts of the compounds described herein that are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of patients without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio and effective for their intended use as well as the zwitterionic forms where possible of the compounds described herein. The term salts refers to the relatively non toxic inorganic and organic acid addition salts of the compounds described herein. These salts can be prepared in situ during the isolation and purification of the compounds or by separately reacting the purified compound in its free base form with a suitable organic or inorganic acid and isolating the salt thus formed.

Representative salts include the bromide chloride sulfate bisulfate nitrate acetate oxalate valerate oleate palmitate stearate laurate borate benzoate lactate phosphate tosylate citrate maleate fumarate succinate tartrate naphthylate mesylate glucoheptonate lactobionate methane sulphonate sulfoacetate and laurylsulphonate salts and the like. These may include cations based on the alkali and alkaline earth metals such as sodium lithium potassium calcium magnesium and the like as well as non toxic ammonium quaternary ammonium and amine cations including but not limited to ammonium tetramethylammonium tetraethylammonium methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine ethylamine and the like. See Stahl and Wermuth Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use Wiley VCH 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety at least for compositions taught therein. 

In an embodiment the compound of formula I II III IV V or VI is a chloride Cl salt. In another embodiment the compound of formula I II III IV V or VI is a salt of 2 sulfoacetate.

In another embodiment the compound of formula II III IV or V is a salt of 2 sulfoacetate. In another embodiment the compound of formula VI is a chloride salt.

As used herein the terms alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl include straight and branched chain monovalent substituents. Examples include methyl ethyl isobutyl 3 butynyl and the like.

Heteroalkyl heteroalkenyl and heteroalkynyl are similarly defined but may contain O S or N heteroatoms or combinations thereof within the backbone.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein is a non aromatic carbon based ring composed of at least three carbon atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl norbornyl and the like. The term heterocycloalkyl is a type of cycloalkyl group as defined above and is included within the meaning of the term cycloalkyl where at least one of the carbon atoms of the ring is replaced with a heteroatom such as but not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur or phosphorus.

Aryl molecules include for example cyclic hydrocarbons that incorporate one or more planar sets of typically six carbon atoms that are connected by delocalized electrons numbering the same as if they consisted of alternating single and double covalent bonds. An example of an aryl molecule is benzene.

Heteroaryl molecules include substitutions along their main cyclic chain of atoms such as O N or S. When heteroatoms are introduced a set of five atoms e.g. four carbon and a heteroatom can create an aromatic system. Examples of heteroaryl molecules include furan pyrrole thiophene imidazole oxazole pyridine and pyrazine. Aryl and heteroaryl molecules can also include additional fused rings for example benzofuran indole benzothiophene naphthalene anthracene and quinoline.

The alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl heteroalkyl heteroalkenyl heteroalkynyl heterocycloalkyl and heteroaryl molecules used herein can be substituted or unsubstituted.

As used herein the term substituted includes the addition of an alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl heteroalkyl heteroalkenyl heteroalkynyl heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl group as described herein to a position attached to the main chain of the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl heteroalkyl heteroalkenyl heteroalkynyl heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl e.g. the replacement of a hydrogen by one of these molecules.

Examples of substitution groups include but are not limited to amino amido hydroxyl halogen e.g. F Br Cl or I cyano nitro haloalkyl and carboxyl groups. Conversely as used herein the term unsubstituted indicates the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl heteroalkyl heteroalkenyl heteroalkynyl heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl has a full complement of hydrogens i.e. commensurate with its saturation level with no substitutions e.g. linear decane CH CH .

The compounds described herein may contain chiral centers. Such chiral centers may be of either the R or S configuration or may be a mixture thereof. Thus the compounds provided herein may be enantiomerically pure or be stereoisomeric or diastereomeric mixtures. The separation of mixtures of optical isomers to obtain pure enantiomers is known in the art and is contemplated. Enantiomeric resolution may for example be achieved by fractional crystallization of salts with chiral acids or by chromatographic separation on chiral columns.

In the case of amino acid residues such residues may be of either the L or D form. As used herein the term amino acid refers to amino acids which are racemic or of either the D or L configuration. The designation L preceding an amino acid refers to the L isomer of the amino acid. The designation DL preceding an amino acid designation refers to a mixture of the L and D isomers of the amino acid. The chiral centers of the compounds provided herein may undergo epimerization in vivo. As such the administration of a compound in its L form is equivalent for compounds that undergo epimerization in vivo to administration of the compound in its D form.

The compounds described herein can be prepared in a variety of ways. The compounds can be synthesized using synthetic methods known in the art of synthetic organic chemistry or variations thereon as appreciated by those skilled in the art. The compounds described herein can be prepared from readily available starting materials. Optimum reaction conditions may vary with the particular reactants or solvent used but such conditions can be determined by one skilled in the art by routine optimization procedures.

Variations on compounds of formula I II III IV V and VI include the addition subtraction or movement of the various constituents as described for each compound. Similarly as described above when one or more chiral centers is present in a molecule the chirality of the molecule can be changed. Additionally compound synthesis can involve the protection and deprotection of various chemical groups. The use of protection and deprotection and the selection of appropriate protecting groups can be determined by one skilled in the art. The chemistry of protecting groups can be found for example in Wuts and Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 4Ed. Wiley Sons 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The synthesis and subsequent testing of various compounds as described by formulas I II III IV V and VI to determine efficacy is also contemplated.

Reactions to produce the compounds described herein can be carried out in solvents which can be selected by one of skill in the art of organic synthesis. Solvents can be substantially nonreactive with the starting materials reactants the intermediates or products under the conditions at which the reactions are carried out i.e. temperature and pressure. Reactions can be carried out in one solvent or a mixture of more than one solvent. Product or intermediate formation can be monitored according to any suitable method known in the art. For example product formation can be monitored by spectroscopic means such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy e.g. H or C infrared spectroscopy spectrophotometry e.g. UV visible or mass spectrometry or by chromatography such as high performance liquid chromatography HPLC or thin layer chromatography.

The compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof can be provided in a pharmaceutical composition. Depending on the intended mode of administration the pharmaceutical composition can be in the form of solid semi solid or liquid dosage forms such as for example tablets suppositories pills capsules powders liquids or suspensions preferably in unit dosage form suitable for single administration of a precise dosage. The compositions will include an effective amount of the compounds described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and in addition may include other medicinal agents pharmaceutical agents carriers or diluents. By pharmaceutically acceptable is meant a material that is not biologically or otherwise undesirable which can be administered to an individual along with the selected substrate without causing significant undesirable biological effects or interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the other components of the pharmaceutical composition in which it is contained.

As used herein the term carrier encompasses any excipient diluent filler salt buffer stabilizer solubilizer lipid stabilizer or other material well known in the art for use in pharmaceutical formulations. The choice of a carrier for use in a composition will depend upon the intended route of administration for the composition. The preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and formulations containing these materials is described in e.g. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 21st Edition ed. University of the Sciences in Philadelphia Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 2005. Examples of physiologically acceptable carriers include buffers such as phosphate buffers citrate buffer and buffers with other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol salt forming counterions such as sodium and or nonionic surfactants such as TWEEN ICI Inc. Bridgewater N.J. polyethylene glycol PEG and PLURONICS BASF Florham Park N.J. .

Compositions containing the compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof suitable for parenteral injection may comprise physiologically acceptable sterile aqueous or nonaqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions and sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers diluents solvents or vehicles include water ethanol polyols propyleneglycol polyethyleneglycol glycerol and the like suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preserving wetting emulsifying and dispensing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be ensured by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents for example sugars sodium chloride and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the use of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Solid dosage forms for oral administration of the compounds described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof include capsules tablets pills powders and granules. In such solid dosage forms the compounds described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof is admixed with at least one inert customary excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate or a fillers or extenders as for example starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and silicic acid b binders as for example carboxymethylcellulose alignates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose and acacia c humectants as for example glycerol d disintegrating agents as for example agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain complex silicates and sodium carbonate e solution retarders as for example paraffin f absorption accelerators as for example quaternary ammonium compounds g wetting agents as for example cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate h adsorbents as for example kaolin and bentonite and i lubricants as for example talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate or mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents.

Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethyleneglycols and the like.

Solid dosage forms such as tablets dragees capsules pills and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and others well known in the art. They may contain opacifying agents and can also be of such composition that they release the active compound or compounds in a certain part of the intestinal tract in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used are polymeric substances and waxes. The active compounds can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above mentioned excipients.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration of the compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active compounds the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers as for example ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propyleneglycol 1 3 butyleneglycol dimethylformamide oils in particular cottonseed oil groundnut oil corn germ oil olive oil castor oil sesame oil glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethyleneglycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan or mixtures of these substances and the like.

Besides such inert diluents the composition can also include adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending sweetening flavoring or perfuming agents.

Suspensions in addition to the active compounds may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar and tragacanth or mixtures of these substances and the like.

Compositions of the compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof for rectal administrations are preferably suppositories which can be prepared by mixing the compounds with suitable non irritating excipients or carriers such as cocoa butter polyethyleneglycol or a suppository wax which are solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active component.

Dosage forms for topical administration of the compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof include ointments powders sprays and inhalants. The compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof are admixed under sterile conditions with a physiologically acceptable carrier and any preservatives buffers or propellants as may be required. Ophthalmic formulations ointments powders and solutions are also contemplated as being within the scope of the compositions.

The compounds and compositions described above are useful in treating fungal or yeast infections in humans e.g. including pediatric and geriatric populations and animals e.g. veterinary applications. Methods of using the compounds and compositions described herein comprise administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of the compounds or compositions described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof.

Examples of yeast and fungal infections treatable by the methods described herein include fluconazole resistant infections and infections caused by the genus e.g. candidiasis including vaginal candidiasis and hospital acquired candidiasis and fluconazole resistant infections and infections caused by the genus . The methods described herein are useful in treating infections caused by several species of including and

Further the methods of treating fungal or yeast infections as described herein are useful in treating immunocompromised subjects. Immunocompromised subjects include for example HIV positive subjects subjects undergoing immunotherapy cancer patients individuals with viral infections individuals with an autoimmune disease patients with malignancies leukemias collagen vascular diseases or congenital or acquired immunodeficiency organ transplant recipients receiving immunosuppressive therapy and other patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy. As used herein the term treating or treatment includes prevention delay in onset diminution eradication or delay in exacerbation of signs or symptoms after onset and prevention of relapse.

The methods and compounds or compositions as described herein are useful for both prophylactic and therapeutic treatment of fungal or yeast infections. For prophylactic use a therapeutically effective amount of the compounds or compositions described herein are administered to a subject prior to exposure e.g. before or when traveling to a location where yeast or fungal infections are possible during a period of potential exposure to yeast or fungal infections or after a period of potential exposure to yeast or fungal infections.

Prophylactic administration can occur for several days to weeks prior to potential exposure during a period of potential exposure and for a period of time e.g. several days to weeks after potential exposure.

Therapeutic treatment involves administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of the compounds or compositions described herein after a yeast or fungal infection is diagnosed.

Administration of compounds or compositions described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof can be carried out using therapeutically effective amounts of the compounds or compositions described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof for periods of time effective to treat yeast or fungal infections.

The effective amount of the compounds or compositions described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof may be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art and includes exemplary dosage amounts for a mammal of from about 0.05 to about 100 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day which may be administered in a single dose or in the form of individual divided doses such as from 1 to 4 times per day. Alternatively the dosage amount can be from about 0.05 to about 75 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day about 0.5 to about 50 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day about 0.5 to about 25 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day about 1 to about 20 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day about 1 to about 10 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day about 20 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day about 10 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day or about 5 mg kg of body weight of active compound per day. Those of skill in the art will understand that the specific dose level and frequency of dosage for any particular subject may be varied and will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the metabolic stability and length of action of that compound the species age body weight general health sex and diet of the subject the mode and time of administration rate of excretion drug combination and severity of the particular condition.

In these methods yeast or fungal infection for example can be further treated with one or more additional agents. For example the methods of treating and preventing yeast or fungal infections as described herein can further include administering a second compound or composition to the subject. The second compound or composition used in the treatment of fungal or yeast infections can include antifungal compounds antiviral compounds or mixtures thereof. Examples of second compounds include triazole antifungals thiazole antifungals imidazole antifungals polyene antifungals echinocandin antifungals allylamine antifungals and amphotericin B. Combination treatments of the invention may exhibit synergy between the two agents.

In an embodiment a compound of formula I II III IV V or VI is administered in combination with a triazole antifungal thiazole antifungal imidazole antifungal polyene antifungal echinocandin antifungal allylamine antifungal or amphotericin B. In an embodiment the antifungal is a triazole antifungal. In a specific embodiment the triazole antifungal is fluconazole.

In an embodiment a compound of formula II is administered in combination with fluconazole. The combination of formula II and fluconazole may exhibit synergy when used in combination.

Antiviral compounds that can be used in combination with the compounds described herein include for example nucleoside polymerase inhibitors non nucleoside polymerase inhibitors protease inhibitors nucleoside or nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors entry inhibitors assembly inhibitors integrase inhibitors kinase inhibitors enzyme inhibitors maturation inhibitors M2 inhibitors and neuraminidase inhibitors. Examples of such additional antiviral compounds include but are not limited to amantadine rimantadine oseltamivir Tamiflu Roche Laboratories Nutley N.J. zanamivir Relenza GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. peramivir raltegravir Maraviros enfuvititide bevirimat Vivecon Myriad Genetics Salt Lake City Utah Combivir zidovudine lamivudine AZT 3TC GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Emtriva emtricitabine FTC Gilead Sciences Foster City Calif. Epivir lamivudine 3TC GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Epzicom Kivexa abacavir lamivudine ABC 3TC GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Retrovir zidovudine AZT ZDV GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Trizivir abacavir zidovudine lamivudine ABC AZT 3TC GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Truvada tenofovir DF emtricitabine TDF FTC Gilead Sciences Foster City Calif. Videx Videx EC didanosine ddI Bristol Myers Squibb Princeton N.J. Viread tenofovir disoproxil fumarate TDF Gilead Sciences Foster City Calif. Zerit stavudine d4T Bristol Myers Squibb Princeton N.J. Ziagen abacavir ABC GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Racivir RCV Pharmasset Princeton N.J. Amdoxovir AMDX DAPD RFS Pharma Tucker Ga. apricitabine SPD754 AVX754 elvucitabine ACH 126 443 Beta L Fd4C Immunitin HE2000 alpha epibromide Hollis Eden Pharmaceuticals San Diego Calif. Proleukin aldesleukin Interleukin 2 IL 2 Chiron Corporation Emeryville Calif. Remune HIV 1 Immunogen Salk vaccine Orchestra Therapeutics Carlsbad Calif. BAY 50 4798 IR103 Intelence etravirine TMC 125 Tibotec Therapeutics Irvine Calif. Rescriptor delavirdine DLV Pfizer New York N.Y. Sustiva Stocrin efavirenz EFV Bristol Myers Squibb Princeton N.J. Viramune nevirapine NVP Boehringer Ingelheim Ridgefield Conn. rilpivirine TMC 278 Agenerase amprenavir APV GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Aptivus tipranavir TPV Boehringer Ingelheim Ridgefield Conn. Crixivan indinavir IDV Merck Whitehouse Station N.J. Invirase saquinavir SQV Roche Laboratories Nutley N.J. Kaletra Aluvia lopinavir ritonavir LPV r Abbott Laboratories Abbott Park Ill. Lexiva Telzir fosamprenavir FPV GlaxoSmithKline Philadelphia Pa. Norvir ritonavir RTV Abbott Laboratories Abbott Park Ill. Prezista darunavir DRV Tibotec Therapeutics Irvine Calif. Reyataz atazanavir ATV Bristol Myers Squibb Princeton N.J. Viracept nelfinavir NFV Pfizer Inc. New York N.Y. Fuzeon enfuvirtide ENF T 20 Roche Laboratories Inc. Nutley N.J. Selzentry Celsentri maraviroc UK 427 857 Pfizer Inc. New York N.Y. Victiviroc SCH 417690 SCH D Schering Plough Kenilworth N.J. PRO 140 Progenics Pharmaceuticals Tarrytown N.Y. TNX 355 Tanox Inc. Houston Tex. Isentress raltegravir MK 0518 Merck Whitehouse Station N.J. Elvitegravir GS 9137 Gilead Sciences Foster City Calif. Bevirimat PA 457 Panacos Pharmaceuticals Inc. Watertown Mass. and Droxia or Hydrea hydroxyurea HU Bristol Myers Squibb Princeton N.J. .

For combination treatments a compound of formula I II III IV V or VI may be administered simultaneously or sequentially with a second compound. For simultaneous administration or co administration the compound of formula I II III IV V or VI may be part of the same pharmaceutical composition with the second agent or the two agents may be administered as separate compositions.

The one or more additional agents and the compounds or compositions described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof can be administered in any order including simultaneous administration as well as temporally spaced order of up to several days apart. The methods may also include more than a single administration of the one or more additional agents and or the compounds or compositions described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The administration of the one or more additional agent and the compounds or compositions described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be by the same or different routes and concurrently or sequentially.

The examples below are intended to further illustrate certain aspects of the methods compounds and compositions described herein and are not intended to limit the scope of the claims.

The anti fungal or anti yeast activity of compounds of formula II III IV V and VI were tested against species including and as well as was determined based upon the minimum inhibitory concentration MIC and minimum fungicidal concentrations MFC values as described below. An MFC MIC ratio of less than four indicates that the compound is fungicidal an MFC MIC ratio of greater than four indicates that the compound is fungistatic. Fluconazole an ergosterol inhibitor and the beta 1 3 glucan inhibitor micafungin served as controls See Tables 1 and 2 .

The minimum inhibitory concentrations resulting in 80 growth inhibition MIC of multiple species and apicola as well as to a set of formula II III IV and V was determined in accordance with the guidelines in CLSI document M27 A2 Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute Wayne Pa. . The total volume of cells and drug was 100 L per microtiter well and each drug was diluted in RPMI to achieve final concentrations of 0.2 100 g ml. Uninoculated cultures were used as a reference standard. Stock inoculum suspensions were prepared from 24 hour cultures on YPD yeast extract peptone dextrose media at 30 C.

For MIC determinations an inoculum of 1.0 10cells of and 2.0 10cells of per well were used and cells in diluted drugs were prepared in RPMI 1640 medium. MICs were determined both visually and spectrophotometrically at 24 hours and 48 h at 550 nm using a micro plate reader. The MICendpoint was measured as the lowest drug concentration resulting in a reduction of growth of 80 or more compared with growth of the control.

The minimum fungicidal concentrations MFCs may be determined for each drug isolate medium combination as follows. After 48 hours of incubation 100 L of each drug isolate medium combination 2 plates is subcultured onto YPD plates 100 L of solution is spread over the YPD plate . The subcultured solutions are obtained from each well that showed complete inhibition 100 or an optically clear well from the last positive well growth similar to that for the growth control well and from the growth control drug free medium . The plates are then incubated at 30 C. for 48 hours. The MFC is measured as the lowest drug concentration that shows either no growth or fewer than five colonies to obtain approximately 99 killing activity.

Growth inhibition was visualized by plating 5 l of ten fold serial dilutions of cells onto YPD agar plates containing compounds at indicated concentrations. Cells were grown overnight in YPD broth at 30 C. washed with saline and standardized by hemacytometer counts. Growth was photographed and evaluated after 48 h of incubation at 30 C. The results of this drop plate assay are shown in .

The neutral red uptake assay is a cytotoxicity test that is based on the ability of viable cells to incorporate and bind the supra vital dye neutral red in the lysosomes. This weakly cationic dye penetrates cell membranes by non ionic passive diffusion and concentrates in the lysosomes where it binds by electrostatic hydrophobic bonds to anionic and phosphate groups of the lysosomal matrix. The dye is then extracted from the viable cells using an acidified ethanol solution and the absorbance of the solubilized dye is read. When the cell dies or the pH gradient is reduced the dye is not retained and consequently the amount of retained dye is proportional to the number of viable cells. Most primary cells and cell lines can be used for this method. The HepG2 and Huh7 two human hepatoma cell lines are used for this study. The cells are seeded in 96 well tissue culture plates and treated for 48 hours with the compounds. The plates are then incubated for 2 hours with a medium containing neutral red. The cells are subsequently washed the dye is extracted in each well and the absorbance is read using a spectrophotometer.

The MTT assay is a colorimetric assay that measures the reduction of yellow 3 4 5 dimethythiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide MTT by mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase. The MIT enters the cells and passes into the mitochondria where it is reduced to an insoluble dark purple formazan product. The cells are then solubilized with an organic solvent e.g. isopropanol and the released solubilized formazan reagent is measured spectrophotometrically. Since reduction of MTT can only occur in metabolically active cells the level of activity is a measure of the viability of the cells.

Cells of the HepG2 liver cell NIH 3T3 fibrolast cell or 293T kidney cell were seeded in a 96 well plate. The plate was incubated overnight at 37 C. in a humidified incubator 5 CO. Compounds of formula II III IV V and VI were added to the plate. Different concentrations of drug were tested in triplicate along with a negative control. The final volume was adjusted to 100 l per well. The plate was incubated overnight at 37 C. in a humidified incubator 5 CO. After 24 hours and 48 hours MTT reagent 5 mg ml 10 l 100 l per well of the 96 well plate was added and incubated at 37 C. for 3 hours. After 3 hours 100 l of the DMSO solution was added to each well and the plate was rocked at room temperature for 1 hour. The plate was then read on a plate reader at 550 nM. The results are shown below in tables 1 and 2.

E test strips Biomerieux containing a graded series of fluconazole concentration are placed on a YPD plate that had been previously inoculated to confluency with . The strip plate that was inoculated is incubated for 48 h at 30 C. The zone of inhibition at the lowest concentration of fluconazole is read as the MIC. The results shown in indicate synergy between the compound of formula II and fluconazole.

The compounds and methods of the appended claims are not limited in scope by the specific compounds and methods described herein which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the claims and any compounds and methods that are functionally equivalent are within the scope of this disclosure. Various modifications of the compounds and methods in addition to those shown and described herein are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Further while only certain representative compounds methods and aspects of these compounds and methods are specifically described other compounds and methods are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Thus a combination of steps elements components or constituents may be explicitly mentioned herein however all other combinations of steps elements components and constituents are included even though not explicitly stated.

