---

title: Systems and methods for providing notifications in a communications system
abstract: The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing notifications in a communication system. In connection therewith, a first communication is transmitted, by a processor, in accordance with a first communication scheme that defines a first communication service by which the first communication is to be transmitted and a first user device to which the first communication is to be transmitted. The processor estimates whether the first communication was received by the first user device. Responsive to estimating that the first communication was not received by the first user device, the processor operates to determine a further communication scheme, different to the first communication scheme, that defines a further communication service by which a further communication is to be transmitted and a further user device to which the further communication is to be transmitted, and operates to transmit the further communication in accordance with the further communication scheme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503871&OS=09503871&RS=09503871
owner: MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED
number: 09503871
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141114
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to Great Britain Application No. 1320348.4 filed Nov. 18 2013. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to the provision of notifications in a communication system. More particularly the disclosure relates to methods and systems of providing multiple forms of notifications in a communication system.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

Notification systems provide a means of delivering communications or information to one or more recipients. Notification systems are regularly used to send a communication such as an email or SMS to one or more recipients to indicate that an event has occurred. For example recipients interested in a particular discussion on a website may register to receive a notification any time new comments are added to the discussion. In a further example notifications may be used to alert recipients to emergency situations.

However there are many situations in which it would be desirable to provide an improved notification system that is adaptable to changes in an operational environment.

This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

In accordance with a first aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a method of transmitting a communication to a user the method comprising operating a processor to a transmit a first communication in accordance with a first communication scheme the first communication scheme defining a first communication service by which the first communication is to be transmitted and a first user device to which the first communication is to be transmitted b estimate whether the first communication was received by the first user device and responsive to estimating that the first communication was not received by the first user device operating a processor to c determine a further communication scheme different to the first communication scheme the further communication scheme defining a further communication service by which a further communication is to be transmitted and a further user device to which the further communication is to be transmitted and d transmit the further communication in accordance with the further communication scheme. In this manner a more reliable method of communicating with a user is provided.

Operating a processor to determine a further communication scheme different to the first communication scheme may comprise operating the processor to determine a further communication scheme defining at least one of i a further communication service different to the first communication service and ii a further user device different to the first user device.

In an embodiment operating a processor to estimate whether the first communication is received by the first user device comprises operating the processor to determine whether an acknowledgment response has been received from the first user device within a predefined period from transmission of the first communication.

The method may further comprise operating a processor to determine whether the further communication is received by the further user device and responsive to determining that the further communication was not received by the further user device operating the processor to repeat steps c and d .

The processor may be operated to repeat steps c and d which comprises operating the processor to repeat steps c and d until the processor determines that one or more of the following conditions has been met no further communication scheme is determined at step c a predefined period of time has expired since transmission of the first communication and steps c and d have been performed a predefined number of times. In this manner the processor may continue to transmit the notification using different communication schemes and or to different devices associated with the user until a communication is successfully received at a device associated with the user.

Prior to performing steps a to d the method may comprise operating a processor to receive a list of preferred communication schemes from a device associated with the user store the received list of communication schemes in association with an identifier of the user and determine a potential set of communication schemes based at least in part on the received list of preferred communication schemes wherein at step c the further communication scheme is determined from the potential set of communication schemes.

Transmitting the first communication in accordance with the first communication scheme may comprise determining the first communication scheme from the potential set of communication schemes.

The received list of preferred communication schemes may have an associated list order and wherein the further communication scheme is determined in accordance with the list order.

The communication may be associated with an application being executed on at least one of the first user device and the further user device.

The potential set of communication schemes may be further based on one or more of a location of at least one device associated with the user and the application being executed on the at least one device associated with the user.

The communication may comprise information received from a remote server associated with the application being executed on the at least one user device.

The set of potential communication schemes may comprise two or more communication schemes each of which defines a respective communication service from the group of transmission of data using Short Message Service SMS initiation of an audio transmission via a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and or a Private Branch Exchange PBX to the user device transmission of data using SMTP or TCP IP protocol transmission of an application notification transmission of data using Bluetooth .

According to a further aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a notification engine for transmitting a communication to a user the notification engine comprising a processor configured to a transmit a first communication in accordance with a first communication scheme the first communication scheme defining a first communication service by which the first communication is to be transmitted and a first user device to which the first communication is to be transmitted b estimate whether the first communication was received by the first user device and responsive to estimating that the first communication was not received by the first user device operate a processor to c determine a further communication scheme different to the first communication scheme the further communication scheme defining a further communication service by which a further communication is to be transmitted and a further user device to which the further communication is to be transmitted and d transmit a further communication in accordance with the further communication scheme.

The processor of the notification engine may be configured to estimate whether the communication is received by the first user device by determining whether an acknowledgment response has been received from the first user device within a predefined period from transmission of the first communication.

The processor of the notification engine may be further configured to determine whether the further communication is received by the further user device and responsive to determining that the further communication was not received by the further user device to repeat steps c and d .

The processor of the notification engine may be configured to repeat steps c and d until the processor determines that one or more of the following conditions has been met no further communication scheme is determined at step c a predefined period of time has expired since transmission of the first communication and steps c and d have been performed a predefined number of times.

Prior to performing steps a to d the processor of the notification engine may be configured to receive a list of preferred communication schemes from a device associated with the user store the received list of communication schemes in association with an identifier of the user and determine a potential set of communication schemes based at least in part on the received list of preferred communication schemes wherein at step c the further communication scheme is determined from the potential set of communication schemes.

The received list of preferred communication schemes may have an associated list order and wherein the processor is configured to determine the further communication scheme in accordance with the list order.

The communication may be associated with an application being executed on at least one of the first user device and the further user device.

The processor of the notification engine may be further configured to determine the potential set of communication schemes based on one or more of a location of at least one device associated with the user and the application being executed on the at least one device associated with the user.

The communication may comprise information received from a remote server associated with the application being executed on the user device.

The set of potential communication schemes may comprise two or more communication schemes each defining a respective communication service from the group of transmission of data using Short Message Service SMS initiation of an audio transmission via a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and or a Private Branch Exchange PBX to the user device transmission of data using SMTP or TCP IP protocol transmission of an application notification transmission of data using Bluetooth .

According to a further aspect of the disclosure there is provided a processor comprising electronic circuitry configured to a transmit a first communication in accordance with a first communication scheme the first communication scheme defining a first communication service by which the first communication is to be transmitted and a first user device to which the first communication is to be transmitted b estimate whether the first communication was received by the first user device and responsive to estimating that the first communication was not received by the first user device operate a processor to c determine a further communication scheme different to the first communication scheme the further communication scheme defining a further communication service by which a further communication is to be transmitted and a further user device to which the further communication is to be transmitted and d transmit a further communication in accordance with the further communication scheme.

According to a further aspect of the disclosure there is provided a non transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions which when executed cause a processor to a transmit a first communication in accordance with a first communication scheme the first communication scheme defining a first communication service by which the first communication is to be transmitted and a first user device to which the first communication is to be transmitted b estimate whether the first communication was received by the first user device and responsive to estimating that the first communication was not received by the first user device operate a processor to c determine a further communication scheme different to the first communication scheme the further communication scheme defining a further communication service by which a further communication is to be transmitted and a further user device to which the further communication is to be transmitted and d transmit a further communication in accordance with the further communication scheme.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Specific embodiments of the present disclosure will be described below with reference to the Figures. The description and specific examples included herein are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring to the drawings and in particular to an exemplary notification system or scheme is shown. The system comprises at least one user device capable of or adapted to receive communications from a notification engine .

The at least one user device may comprise one or more devices of the same type. Alternatively the at least one user device may comprise a plurality of devices of different types. For example the at least one user device may comprise one or more of a portable device such as a pager a portable telephone a watch a portable computer a tablet computer a fixed device such as a desktop computer a fixed line or landline telephone or any other suitable communication device.

The notification engine may comprise or be comprised within any suitable device. For example the notification engine may comprise or be comprised within a remote server associated with one or more applications being executed by the user device . Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may be comprised within a base station. In what follows the method steps are described as being performed by the notification engine . However it will be appreciated that these steps may be performed by other elements of the system or by one or more processors comprised within the notification engine or other elements of the system .

The notification engine may be configured to communicate with one or more databases for example via a wired or wireless connection. For example the notification engine may write data to the one or more databases . Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may retrieve data stored in or accessible to the database .

The user device and the notification engine may communicate using any suitable means. For example the user device and the notification engine may communicate using one or more of Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Infra Red IR Communication Magnetic Induction or over a wired or wireless network .

In an exemplary embodiment the network may comprise any network across which communications can be transmitted and received. For example the network may comprise a wired or wireless network. The network may for example comprise one or more of the internet a local area network a radio network such as a mobile or cellular network a mobile data network or any other suitable type of network. In one embodiment the user device communicates over the internet with a notification engine operating on a cloud .

At step a user of one or more user devices registers or enrolls to use the system . The registration may be performed by any suitable means. For example the user may register to use the system via a website by telephone by text message etc.

Registration information may for example comprise user details e.g. name address age etc. Additionally or alternatively registration information may comprise information indicative of one or more communication schemes via which the user would like to receive specified notifications wherein a communication scheme defines a communication service by or via which a communication is to be transmitted and a user device to which the communication is to be transmitted. Communication schemes will be discussed further in respect to .

This information may for example indicate a relative order of preference for each of the indicated communication schemes.

In an embodiment in which the system is provided by or in association with a software application app the registration step may comprise a user installing the application on one or more user devices . Additionally or alternatively the registration step may comprise one or more of the user authorizing the application to provide notifications to one or more user devices associated with the user one or more user devices executing the application and the user inputting or updating registration information via an interface of or associated with the application.

At step a request or order is transmitted by or in association with a user device . The request may be transmitted to the notification engine or to a server or a base station operating in association with the notification engine . The request may for example comprise an order for goods or services and or a request for information. For example in an embodiment in which the system is provided by or in association with a food outlet the request may be a food order. Similarly in an embodiment in which the system is provided by or in association with a news service the request may comprise a request for one or more news stories.

It will be appreciated that one or both of steps and may be omitted. Similarly steps and may be combined to form a single step in which case the request transmitted at step may additionally comprise any registration information.

At step the notification engine transmits a first communication to a user device in accordance with a first communication scheme.

The notification engine may transmit the first communication responsive to determining that a predefined event has occurred. For example the notification engine may transmit the first communication in response to the user providing registration details at step and or in response to the user device transmitting a request at step

In an exemplary embodiment in which the system is provided in association a food outlet the notification engine transmits the first communication responsive to receiving an indication that a food order placed by or in association with a user device is ready for collection.

In an exemplary embodiment in which the system is provided in association with a news service the notification engine transmits the first communication responsive to receiving an indication that a news story of interest to a user of a user device is available.

The first communication may comprise any message and or notification comprising data indicative of the occurrence of an event. For example the first communication may comprise data indicative of one or more of the following an emergency situation publication of an article of interest proximity of the first user device to a predefined location or service and the occurrence of any other predefined event. The notification engine may generate some or all of the data included in the first communication. Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may include data received from another device in the first communication. For example the notification engine may retrieve data from the database and include the retrieved data in the first communication.

The first communication scheme may define any suitable first user device to which the first communication is to be transmitted. For example in an embodiment in which the notification engine transmits the first communication in response to a user device transmitting a request at step the first user device may be defined to be the same as the user device that transmitted the request at step . Alternatively the user device may be a device other than that which transmitted the request at

The first communication scheme used to transmit the first communication may define any suitable first communication service or means for transmitting information from the notification engine to a user device . For example the first communication service used by the notification engine may comprise any one of Short Message Service SMS or text message voice communication e mail communication using e.g. one or more of POP IMAP SMTP a notification e.g. a toast a passive pop up or pop up notification a desktop notification a notification bubble a balloon notification a desktop alert a dialog or a modal window Instant Messaging IM e.g. IRC ICQ AIM Yahoo Messenger MSN XMPP iMessage Blackberry Messenger etc. a pager service using e.g. Simple Network Paging Protocol SNPP RSS feed cell broadcast and any other suitable protocol or service for transmitting a communication to a user device .

In an exemplary embodiment a user device executes a software application app and or authorizes the application to transmit notifications or communications to the user device executing the application and or a further user device associated with the user. The notification engine may be operated by or in association with a remote server associated with the application. In this case the communication transmitted by the notification engine may comprise a notification or alert message sent by or in association with the application and the communication service used may comprise an Application Programming Interface API .

The notification engine may determine which communication scheme to use by any suitable means. It will be appreciated in what follows that determining a communication scheme may comprise determining either one or both of a communication service and a user device. The notification engine may determine one or more communication schemes by determining communication services and or user devices that are available at a given time. The available communication services and or user devices may be determined in accordance with one or more of a location of the notification engine a location of a user device an identification of a user device and or an indication of the communication services that can be received by the user device and any other criteria that may affect the communication services that are likely to be successfully received by a user device .

Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may select a communication scheme in accordance with predefined or default settings of the system and or the information provided by the user during registration at step

In an exemplary embodiment the notification engine determines a communication scheme to be used in accordance with past performance of communication schemes. For example if the notification engine determines that a predefined portion or number of communications transmitted using a given communication scheme have been successfully received during an observation period the notification engine may determine that the given communication scheme should be used to transmit the communication.

Similarly if the notification engine determines that a predefined portion or number of communications transmitted using a given communication scheme have not been received by a user device the notification engine may determine that the given communication scheme should not be used to transmit the communication. Determination of which communication scheme is to be used to transmit a communication is discussed in more detail with respect to .

At step of method the notification engine determines or estimates whether the first communication has been received by the first user device . This estimation may be performed by any suitable means. For example the notification engine may determine whether an acknowledgement ACK communication or any other type of confirmation of receipt has been received in response to the first communication.

In an exemplary embodiment the first communication comprises a request or indication to the user to reply to the communication to confirm that it has been safely received. In this case the notification engine may then determine that the first communication was not received by the first user device if a response from the first user device is not received within a predefined period of time from transmitting the first communication. Alternatively if a response is received from the first user device within a predefined period of time the notification engine may determine that the first communication was successfully received by the first user device .

For example the first communication may be an Actionable Notification i.e. notification to which a user can reply or respond. In this case the notification engine may determine that the first communication was not received by the first user device if no reply is received from the user within a predefined period of time after transmission of the first Actionable Notification.

In an exemplary embodiment the first communication is an SMS message and the notification engine determines that the first communication was received by the first user device if an acknowledgement of receipt is received within a predefined period after the notification engine transmits the SMS message.

If at step the notification engine estimates that the first communication was received by the first user device the process ends at step .

On the other hand if at step the notification engine estimates that the first communication was not received by the first user device the notification engine determines a further communication scheme at step wherein the further communication is different to the first communication scheme.

At step of method the notification engine determines a further communication scheme for use to transmit a further communication. The further communication service defines a further communication service by which a further communication is to be transmitted and a further user device to which the further communication is to be transmitted. As with the first communication scheme it will be appreciated that determining the further communication scheme may comprise determining one or both of a further communication service and a further user device . Similarly the further communication scheme may differ from the first communication scheme in respect of at least one of the parameters defined by the schemes i.e. the communication services and or the user devices .

The further communication scheme may be determined in any suitable way. For example the further communication service may be determined in any of the ways discussed above in relation to the first communication service at step or as discussed in more detail with respect to .

The further communication service defined by the further communication scheme may be any suitable communication means or service for transmitting a communication from the notification engine to a user device . For example the further communication service may be any of the above listed communication services.

Similarly the further user device defined by the further communication scheme may be any suitable device associated with the user. For example the further user device may be a device specified by the user at step

The further user device may be the same as the first user device in which case the further communication service must be different to the first communication service. Alternatively the further user device may be a device other than the first user device in which case the further communication service may be but is not necessarily the same as the first communication service.

At step of method the notification engine transmits a further communication in accordance with the determined further communication scheme by transmitting a communication to the further user device using the further communication service. For example if the first communication was an application notification sent via an Application Programming Interface API to a tablet device associated with the user the further communication may be an SMS sent to a portable telephone also associated with the user. In this manner if the user fails to receive the notification on his her tablet device due for example to a failure in one or more of the application software the data network or the physical device the user can still be notified using an alternative communication service on a different device.

In an exemplary embodiment processing then continues at step at which the notification engine determines whether the further communication is received by the user device . As with the first communication responsive to determining that the further communication is not received by the further user device the notification engine may then repeat steps and . In this manner responsive to determining that a communication has not been received by a device associated with the user the notification engine transmits further communications each in accordance with a respective communication scheme until such time as a limiting condition is determined to have been met.

The limiting condition may for example be that no further communication schemes are determined at step . For example at step the notification engine may determine or identify the further communication scheme from a predefined set of communication schemes e.g. a number of communication schemes available to a user device or an application being executed thereon in association with which the communication is being transmitted. The notification engine may then cease repetition of steps to when a communication has been transmitted in accordance with each of the communication schemes in the set. Additionally or alternatively the limiting condition may comprise one or more of a predefined number of times that the steps are to be repeated expiration of a predefined period of time since transmission of the first communication or any other suitable limiting factor.

In this manner the notification engine adapts to a given operational environment to improve the reliability with which a user can be notified of the occurrence of an event.

In an embodiment in which a communication scheme comprised within the list defines a communication service but not a user device the notification engine may determine a user device in any suitable manner. For example the notification engine may determine a user device in any of the manners described above in relation to . Similarly if a communication scheme comprised within the list defines a user device but not a communication service the notification engine may determine a communication service in any suitable manner e.g. the manners described above in relation to .

The list of preferred communication schemes may be indicative of a list of preferred communication schemes for one or more of a predefined period of time a predefined location of a user device and a predefined location of the notification engine .

The notification engine may for example retrieve the list of preferred communication schemes from the database . Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may receive a list of preferred communication schemes that is transmitted e.g. broadcast multi cast or simulcast by an information service.

In an exemplary embodiment the notification engine receives the list of preferred communication schemes from a user device . For example prior to the notification engine transmitting the first communication at step of method the notification engine may receive the list of preferred communication schemes from the user device . The list of preferred communication services may for example be provided by a user of the user device during a registration step

Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may receive the list of preferred communication schemes from a remote server. For example in an embodiment in which the first communication is a notification transmitted in association with an application app being executed on a user device a remote server associated with the application may transmit or otherwise provide the list of preferred communication schemes to the notification engine . The preferred communication schemes included in the list may be a predefined set of communication schemes that may define communication services supported by or available for use with the application. Similarly the preferred communication schemes may define user devices executing the software application app at a given time. The preferred list of communication schemes may comprise communication schemes selected by a user for example when authorizing the application to provide notifications and or other communications to the one or more devices associated with the user.

At step of method the notification engine stores the received list of communication schemes in association with an indication of an identity of the user. The user devices defined by the listed communication schemes may comprise indications of the user devices for example a model number or any other identifier associated with a user device . The notification engine may store the received list in association with a user identity in any memory comprised within or accessible to the notification engine . For example the notification engine may store the received list in association with the user device identity in the database .

At step of method the notification engine determines a potential set of communication schemes based at least in part on the received list of preferred communication schemes. The potential set of communication schemes may for example be the same as the received list of preferred communication services.

Alternatively the potential set of communication schemes may comprise a subset of the preferred communication services. In an exemplary embodiment the notification engine determines which of the communication services and or user devices of the preferred communication schemes are available based on one or more of a current time a location of the notification engine and a location of the user devices .

In an exemplary embodiment a user device defined by a communication scheme is a mobile device and the notification engine determines that the user device is currently located in an area in which wireless internet access e.g. 2G 3G 4G is not available. The notification engine then determines that the communication schemes defining this user device must define a communication service not reliant on wireless internet in order to be included in the set of potential schemes.

Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may determine the potential set of communication schemes based on observed performance of the services and or user devices defined in the received list of preferred communication schemes. For example the notification engine may eliminate schemes defining communication services that have been observed to be unsuccessful within a predefined period of time. In this manner the use of overloaded networks can be avoided. For example during a sporting event the large increase in demand for wireless internet access may result in communications transmitted using wireless internet being dropped by the network. Accordingly even though wireless internet is an available communication service the notification engine may determine that based on recent performance this communication service should not be used.

At step of method the notification engine transmits a communication i.e. one or other of the first communication or the further communication in accordance with a selected communication one of the potential set of communication schemes. The communication scheme may be selected from the potential set in any suitable manner. For example the communication scheme may be selected randomly or in accordance with a predefined order. In an exemplary embodiment the communication scheme may be selected in accordance with an order of the list of preferred communication schemes.

At step the user places the order via a user interface UI of a software application app being executed by a processor of a user device . The order is communicated to a service provider e.g. a food outlet. For example the order may be communicated to the service provider via the network and or via a remote server associated with the software application.

Subsequent to the order being completed by the service provider the notification engine receives an indication that the order is ready for collection at step . This indication may be transmitted to the notification engine via any suitable means. For example the notification may be transmitted from the service provider over the network and or via a remote server associated with the software application.

The notification engine determines from the received indication and or information stored in the database a user device associated with the order and the type of notification to be sent to the user device . The notification engine may perform this determination by any suitable means. For example the received indication may comprise information indicative of one or more of the user device a number of the order placed by the user and the software application used to place the order.

In the exemplary embodiment of the notification engine determines that an actionable notification or alert should be transmitted to the software application running on the user device that transmitted the request and using an Application Programming Interface API to alert the user to the fact that the food is ready for collection. At step the notification engine transmits the actionable notification.

At step the notification engine determines whether or not the notification was received by the user device . In the exemplary embodiment of if the notification engine receives a response to the actionable notification within a predefined period of time the notification engine determines that the notification has been received by the user. Accordingly the user has been successfully notified that the order is ready for collection and processing ends at step .

Alternatively if the notification engine does not receive a response to the actionable notification within a predefined period of time the notification engine determines that the user device has not received the notification. For example overloading of the wireless internet network may have caused the notification to be dropped and therefore not received by the user device . Such overloading of the network may commonly occur at sporting events or concerts due to the large demand on the network.

In this case processing continues at step at which the notification engine determines the next type of communication or alert to send to the user and or a next device to which the next type of communication or alert should be transmitted. As discussed in relation to and the next type of communication and or the next device may for example be determined in accordance with user preferences defined via the software application.

In an exemplary embodiment at step the notification engine determines that the next alert should be sent to the same device as the first alert but this time using SMS. At step the notification engine then transmits an SMS alert to the user device indicating that the order is ready for collection.

Subsequent to transmitting the SMS message at step processing returns to step at which the notification engine determines whether or not the alert has been received by the user device . As with the first notification the notification engine may determine that the SMS message was not received by the user device if no response to the message is received from the user device . Additionally or alternatively the notification engine may determine that the SMS message was not received by the user device if a delivery acknowledgment is not received within a predefined period of time after transmission of the notification.

As discussed in relation to and the notification engine may continue to transmit different types of alert and or alerts to different devices associated with the user until it is determined that a device associated with the user device has received an alert or until some other limiting condition occurs. For example in the exemplary embodiment of if the notification engine determines that the SMS alert was not received by the user device the notification engine may next transmit an SMS alert to a second device associated with the user. In this manner if a first device associated with the user is unable to receive an alert the user may still be successfully notified. For example where a first user device runs out of battery power or is operating on a network with limited coverage the user can be notified via a second device such as a device belonging to a friend.

Similarly in an exemplary embodiment in which the notification engine determines that a communication has not been received by a mobile user device the notification engine can instead initiate a voice call to a home telephone i.e. a land line or fixed line telephone associated with the user.

The process ends when the notification engine determines that either i a communication has been successfully received by the user device or ii that all suitable communication services have been tried.

It should be appreciated that the functions described herein in some embodiments may be described in computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable media e.g. in a physical tangible memory etc. and executable by one or more processors. The computer readable media is a non transitory computer readable storage medium. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

It should also be appreciated that one or more aspects of the present disclosure transform a general purpose computing device into a special purpose computing device when configured to perform the functions methods and or processes described herein.

Further it should be appreciated that the present disclosure is not limited to the embodiment s described herein but can be amended or modified without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated that the methods described are by way of example only and various modifications of the disclosed methods may be made. For example the order in which steps of the methods are performed may be altered or individual steps may be omitted.

With that said exemplary embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. In some example embodiments well known processes well known device structures and well known technologies are not described in detail.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

