---

title: Personal video recorder systems and methods
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for providing an interactive television system for recording television programming. The interactive television system may include components for providing personal video recorder (PVR) functionality, such as an interactive television program guide (IPG), PVR extensions, PVR application programming interfaces (APIs), a PVR device, any suitable hardware or software, or a combination thereof. These components may be implemented in, for example, an arrangement having an integrated PVR-compliant device with a PVR device, or in an arrangement having a PVR-compliant device (e.g., a set-top box) coupled to PVR equipment (e.g., a remote PVR server or a PVR sidecar) with a PVR device. The PVR-compliant device may include software and hardware configured to implement the IPG. The PVR APIs may be a library of intelligent vendor-specific and vendor-independent APIs able to determine the type of PVR device being used. The PVR extensions and PVR APIs may be configured to provide a seamless integration of functionality associated with the PVR-compliant device and the PVR device. A full port of the IPG may be implemented in both the PVR-compliant device and the PVR device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491500&OS=09491500&RS=09491500
owner: Rovi Guides, Inc.
number: 09491500
owner_city: San Carlos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141028
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 818 863 filed on Jun. 18 2010 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 105 082 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 156 528 filed Mar. 21 2002 which claims the benefit of United States provisional patent application No. 60 278 079 filed Mar. 22 2001 United States provisional patent application No. 60 284 951 filed Apr. 19 2001 and United States provisional patent application No. 60 290 714 filed May 14 2001 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates to personal video recorder PVR systems and more particularly to PVR systems that include user television equipment having an interactive television program guide IPG with PVR extensions implemented thereon.

Products have recently been developed that allow users to manage their viewing experiences and record media with increased flexibility. PVRs such as those provided by TiVo and ReplayTV record programs on hard disk drives configured for multi media storage. Users may schedule programs to be recorded and may play back the recorded programs at a later time. These products also record what users are watching in real time allowing users to pause real time programs when for example the user must leave the room. The product may continue recording and storing the program being broadcast while the displayed program is paused. Users may resume their viewing where they left off and may fast forward through commercials until they reach the point at which the program is currently being provided.

Interactive television applications such as IPGs are now widely available to the general public. IPGs may be used to provide interactive television services. Interactive television services include services for allowing a user to tune to a program set parental locks record a program set reminders etc.

IPGs may allow users to record programs on digital or analog storage devices e.g. videocassettes hard disks floppy discs flash memory recordable compact discs CDs and recordable digital versatile discs DVDs . Programs may also be recorded on a program guide server Internet server or other server. The program guide server may be located at for example the cable system headend. The program guide may be an on line program guide which may be implemented using a web server on the Internet.

However in most cases the IPGs that facilitate television viewing remain separate from the applications that offer PVR functionality. For example PVRs may include IPGs that are separate from the IPGs provided by other user equipment e.g. a set top box and may require input devices and graphic interfaces separate from those used with existing IPGs. Subsequently users often experience difficulty integrating existing IPGs with video recording applications.

It would therefore be desirable to provide an interactive television system having PVR functionality in which the user may use an IPG seamlessly with PVR functionality.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide an interactive television system having PVR functionality in which the user may use an IPG seamlessly with PVR functionality.

This and other objects of the present invention are accomplished by providing a PVR compliant media recording system with an architecture that may include for example a PVR device PVR application programming interfaces APIs PVR extensions storage devices and any additional hardware or software or combination thereof for the purpose of integrating PVR functionality to an IPG.

The high level hardware architecture may involve a PVR compliant device and PVR equipment having a PVR device. The PVR compliant device may include an IPG that provides a user with the ability to record television programming. The user may control the IPG functionality by sending a command to the PVR compliant device. A signal corresponding to the command may be generated by the PVR compliant device and may be communicated to and executed by the PVR device.

The PVR compliant device may include software and hardware configured to implement an IPG PVR extensions and PVR APIs. The PVR device may be coupled to the PVR compliant device and the PVR APIs may be configured to facilitate communications between the PVR device and the PVR compliant device. The PVR device may include software and hardware configured to implement an IPG PVR extensions and PVR APIs.

The PVR compliant device may include hardware interfaces and software interfaces that may provide an IPG with PVR features. The PVR extensions and PVR APIs may be configured to provide a seamless integration of PVR functionality with the IPG. For example PVR compliant applications may interface with existing IPGs implemented in other hardware such as a set top box to perform the PVR functions.

When coupled to a PVR device the PVR compliant device may detect the PVR device being coupled determine the type of PVR device being used based on information received from the PVR device and establish communications with the PVR device based on the information received. This may be accomplished using intelligent PVR APIs implemented in the PVR compliant device.

In a similar manner the PVR device may detect the PVR compliant device being coupled determine the type of PVR compliant device being used based on information received from the PVR compliant device and establish communications with the PVR compliant device based on the information received. This may be accomplished using PVR APIs implemented in the PVR device.

A full port of the IPG may be implemented in both the PVR equipment and the set top box. A full port of the IPG is a full implementation of the IPG application that includes of all features and functions associated with the IPG. In this dual platform arrangement where the IPG is implemented in both the PVR equipment and the set top box the integrated IPG may be used to provide PVR features and functionality when PVR equipment is being used. The dual platform arrangement also allows either the PVR equipment or the set top box to be used independently as a stand alone system. Other configurations for integrating PVR features and functions may also be used.

An illustrative interactive television system in accordance with the principles of the present invention is shown in . Illustrative interactive television system may include main facility distribution facility and user equipment . Illustrative interactive television system may include multiple main facilities . Only one main facility however is illustrated in to avoid over complicating the drawing.

Main facility may include server for storing and distributing IPG information from program guide database . Program guide database may store program guide information such as television program listings information service listings information program related information VOD program information pay per view ordering information promotional information or any other suitable program guide information. Main facility may distribute the program guide information to distribution facility via communications path .

Communications path may be any suitable communications path such as a satellite link a cable link a fiber optic link a microwave link a telephone network link an Internet link or a combination thereof. If it is desired to transmit video signals e.g. television programs over communications path in addition to data signals a relatively high bandwidth link such as a satellite link may be preferable to a relatively low bandwidth link such as a telephone line. Only one distribution facility is shown in to avoid over complicating the drawing. Multiple distribution facilities may be involved in implementing interactive services.

The program guide information or content transmitted by main facility to distribution facility may include television program listings data such as program times channels titles descriptions program type genre actors or any other suitable data.

The promotional information transmitted by main facility to distribution facility may include various promotional banners promotional ads promotional slogans promotional advertisements or any other suitable promotional material.

Distribution facility may be a television distribution facility for broadcast television a cable system headend a satellite distribution facility or any other suitable distribution facility for distributing signals to viewers. Distribution facility may distribute program guide information programming content or any other suitable content or information to user equipment via communications paths . Distribution facility may include server for storing such content and information. Server may be used for distributing television programming music or any other suitable type of media in response for example to requests for such content and information. Server may include a local database for storing various information and content e.g. program guide information or for storing recorded programs remotely. Storing recorded programs remotely on a server at the distribution facility may be an alternative to a storage media in the user s home. Client server based interactive television systems with remote server recording are illustratively described for example in Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 332 244 filed Jun. 11 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Additional techniques for storing programs and program information are illustratively described for example in Hassell et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 157 256 filed Sep. 17 1998 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In addition server may be capable of providing other interactive services such as near video on demand and video on demand. Server may include one or more computers.

If desired some or all of the information distributed to distribution facility may be provided using information sources other than main facility . For example distribution facility may receive information from wide area network e.g. the Internet via communications path . Communications path may be a T link a digital subscriber line DSL link a cable modem link an analog modem link or any other suitable link.

If desired data may be provided to user equipment using facilities other than main facility and distribution facility . For example user equipment may receive data directly from wide area network via communications path . Communications path may be a T link a DSL link a cable modem link an analog modem link radio frequencies such as a paging system or any other suitable link. In another example a separate facility such as a satellite broadcasting system not shown may transmit data to user equipment which may receive data via a satellite receiving system not shown .

Communications path may be any suitable type of link that allows distribution facility to distribute program guide information television programming or any other suitable information data or media to user equipment . There may be more than one communications path that couples each user equipment to distribution facility . For example if distribution facility is a cable headend user equipment may receive information via a cable link and may transmit information to distribution facility via a digital serial link a dial up modem connection or any other suitable link. Each of communication paths may be unidirectional or bi directional.

User equipment may be configured to send or receive e mails via communication path or communications path . User equipment may receive e mails that were sent by distribution facility or by some other facility.

An interactive television application in accordance with the embodiments described herein may be implemented in user equipment to provide interactive services to a user. Interactive services may enable a user to interact with television applications for example by setting particular channels as favorites by changing channels by ordering pay per view PPV movies by selecting programs to be recorded by playing recorded programs etc. An interactive television application may be an IPG application or an interactive personal video recorder application that may be used to provide interactive services to users.

User equipment may be based on a television platform a computer platform or both. For example user equipment may include user television equipment e.g. a television set a PVR and a set top box user computer equipment e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant or any other small personal computing device etc. or any other suitable user equipment for implementing an IPG. User computer equipment may include a computer based receiver having integrated set top box circuitry or a personal computer television PC TV . If desired user television equipment may include computer equipment for receiving e mails.

As shown in the capabilities of server may be provided using servers located at network nodes . Servers such as servers may be used instead of server or may be used in conjunction with server located at distribution facility . Servers may include web servers main frame computers or any suitable device or devices. User equipment may include any suitable device for providing an IPG such as user television equipment.

Set top box may receive signals transmitted by distribution facility e.g. audio video or IPG data . Set top box may include a storage device e.g. a hard drive or memory for storing personal user preferences settings user programmed reminders or other information. For illustrative purposes the present invention will be described in the context of user television equipment which has set top box as its receiver or tuner. If desired user television equipment may include multiple tuners which may be used for simultaneously watching one program and recording another. IPGs with simultaneous watch and record capabilities are illustratively described for example in Lemmons et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 329 850 filed Jun. 11 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Set top box may be coupled to recording device . Recording device may include PVR VCR or any other suitable recording device. Recording device may include one or both of PVR and VCR . If the user desires to record a program set top box may be manually or automatically tuned to a particular channel and control signals may be sent to recording device to record that program. Data link may couple PVR and VCR and may be a cable link or any other suitable data link. Data link may be used to transfer audio video signals for programs between PVR and VCR .

Set top box may send audio video signals and signals that are representative of graphics to display device for presentation to the user. If desired set top box may route signals to display device through recording device . Display device may be a television a computer monitor a computer system with a monitor and speakers a flat panel display or any other suitable display device.

Set top box may be arranged in a client server relationship with PVR . In one embodiment of the present invention set top box may function as a server and PVR may function as a client. All requests for information received from remote control or other input devices may be routed first through the set top box . If for example a user requests PVR information or a PVR recording the request may first be processed by set top box which may communicate with PVR to obtain the information or recording. Set top box may send audio video signals and signals that are representative of graphics to display device based on the communications with PVR . Other arrangements for establishing communications and operations between PVR set top box and display device may also be used.

A user may interact with any of the components in user television equipment and with an IPG using one or more input devices such as remote control . Remote control may have various buttons that may be pressed by the user to interact with portions of an IPG. For illustrative purposes many aspects of the present invention are discussed primarily in the context of an input device that is a remote control. Other suitable input devices such as a conventional keyboard a wireless keyboard a touch screen display remote a handheld computer a mouse a trackball or a touch pad may also be used.

An IPG may be implemented locally on user equipment or may be implemented using a client server or distributed architecture where some of the program guide application is implemented locally on user equipment . Client server program guides are illustratively described for example in Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 374 043 filed Aug. 13 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. If desired an IPG for providing the features and functionalities discussed herein may be partly implemented in PVR set top box or both.

Remote control may include alphanumeric buttons that may be used for entry of alphanumeric characters. Alphanumeric buttons may further include last button which may provide the user with the ability to return to the last channel that was watched or the last screen that was displayed.

Remote control may include task buttons that may provide means for directing a task to be performed by user equipment e.g. user equipment of . Task buttons may include for example play button pause button stop button rewind button fast forward button record button OK button or any other suitable task button. Remote control may include control buttons that may include volume control buttons navigation buttons and channel control buttons . Navigation buttons may provide the user with the ability to adjust or move a desired element e.g. a cursor a highlight window etc. vertically or horizontally. For example if the desired element is a cursor in an IPG display screen navigation buttons may be used to move the cursor in the display screen. OK button in task buttons in combination with navigation buttons may provide the user with the ability to make on screen selections. Remote control buttons are also sometimes referred to herein as remote control keys.

In one embodiment of the present invention interactive television system may include a PVR compliant media recording system for recording television programming having PVR compliant device of . PVR compliant device may include for example IPG PVR extensions PVR APIs firmware any other component needed to accommodate PVR functionality or any combination thereof. Components of PVR compliant device may be located in for example a PVR sidecar a PVR server a set top box any suitable location or locations or a combination thereof.

IPG may be any IPG capable of displaying program information made available through distribution facility . PVR extensions may include any suitable hardware software or both that may be used in conjunction with IPG or any other suitable interactive television application. In one suitable approach PVR extensions may be implemented together with IPG e.g. as part of a single software component . In another suitable approach PVR extensions may be implemented separately from IPG e.g. as a separate software module but may work in conjunction with IPG as a separate functional component.

Whether separate from IPG or integrated as part of IPG PVR extensions may enable a seamless integration of IPG with PVR functionality. This seamless integration may include for example using the same interface motif for PVR related functions as is used for IPG related functions. By providing such add on PVR enabling features to IPG PVR equipment may be combined with IPG to provide a single interface with which to operate both IPG and the PVR equipment.

In one suitable approach PVR equipment having a PVR device may be coupled to PVR compliant device to provide PVR functionality. PVR equipment may include any combination of software hardware or both that provides PVR functionality using a PVR. PVR equipment may include for example a PVR sidecar a PVR server an integrated set top box or any other suitable hardware software or both that enables PVR functionality.

PVR APIs may be used to facilitate communication between the IPG and the PVR equipment. PVR APIs may provide a set of routines protocols tools or a combination thereof for communicating with the PVR device.

In one suitable approach in the absence of an API standard for use with the PVR device PVR APIs may be vendor specific. More particularly in this approach only certain PVR devices may be used in conjunction with PVR compliant device . For example PVR devices may be made to be compatible with a particular PVR compliant device having vendor specific PVR APIs . Alternatively PVR compliant device having vendor specific PVR APIs may be made to be compatible with a particular PVR device. A PVR vendor may be responsible for implementing PVR APIs for a specific PVR device.

In another suitable approach PVR APIs may be vendor independent e.g. based on industry standard or proprietary standard PVR APIs . Designing PVR APIs in this way may allow IPG to be developed independently from the PVR device providing flexibility in the selection of the PVR device. Also PVR devices may be developed independently from PVR APIs .

PVR APIs may include functionality for determining the type model manufacturer etc. of PVR device being used. For example PVR APIs may include a library of multiple vendor specific APIs generic APIs or both. In this approach PVR APIs may be used to determine which of the vendor specific APIs should be used based on a determination of the type of PVR device coupled to PVR compliant device or by any other suitable criteria e.g. using firmware PVR extensions or IPG .

In one suitable arrangement PVR APIs having a library of intelligent APIs may be implemented in PVR compliant device . In this arrangement PVR APIs may automatically detect the PVR device when coupled to PVR compliant device test and diagnose the PVR device and automatically generate the driver source code for the specific PVR device being used.

In another suitable arrangement PVR APIs having a library of intelligent APIs may be implemented in the PVR device. In this arrangement PVR APIs may automatically detect PVR compliant device when coupled to the PVR device test and diagnose PVR compliant device and communicate with the specific PVR compliant device using the appropriate corresponding APIs.

The foregoing description of monitoring techniques that may be used by PVR compliant device and the PVR device are to illustrate embodiments where the PVR device is implemented in PVR equipment separate from the PVR compliant device. Such monitoring and detection would not be necessary if the PVR device were integrated into PVR compliant device . However in another suitable arrangement PVR compliant device may have peripheral component interconnect PCI interfaces industry standard architecture ISA interfaces integrated drive electronic IDE interfaces small computer system interfaces SCSI or any other suitable interfaces that may be used to create an integrated device by way of the above mentioned monitoring and detection.

After determining the appropriate PVR APIs to use in facilitating communication between the PVR device and PVR compliant device PVR APIs may be used to execute any suitable functions routines or any other suitable programming constructs to provide any suitable protocols to provide any suitable tools or to provide any combination thereof. For example the following Tables 1 10 show illustrative programming constructs that may be provided by PVR APIs such as general disk management file support video playback controls video processing support etc.

It will be understood that the PVR API programming constructs of Tables 1 10 are merely illustrative. Any other suitable API programming construct may be used instead of or in addition to those illustrated. It will further be understood that any suitable modification may be made to the APIs of Tables 1 10 in accordance with for example a particular arrangement of hardware software or both being used.

One suitable function of the PVR APIs is to facilitate communication between IPG of PVR compliant device and the PVR device implemented in PVR equipment. shows one configuration of PVR software and hardware that may be used to implement PVR device on PVR equipment or any other suitable equipment. In one suitable arrangement PVR equipment may contain only PVR device . In other suitable arrangements PVR equipment may include PVR device other components of PVR compliant device e.g. PVR APIs any additional hardware or software or a combination thereof.

PVR device may include any suitable hardware software or both including for example circuitry memory e.g. random access memory RAM or any other suitable solid state volatile or non volatile memory devices hardware interfaces e.g. serial interface i.e. RS 232 parallel interface i.e. high performance parallel interface HIPPI universal serial bus USB interface FireWire i.e. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering IEEE 1394 interface wireless interface i.e. wireless application environment WAE RGB component interface RJ 45 interface telephone line interface Ethernet interface coaxial cable interface optical interface or any other suitable interface software drivers processors storage devices e.g. hard drives or any other suitable magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other suitable storage devices APIs IPG or IPG like applications or any other suitable hardware or software. PVR device may provide among other things functionality related to the recording storage scheduling retrieval and playback of television programming.

It will be understood that PVR compliant device and PVR device may be used in any suitable arrangement with any suitable additional software hardware or both. For example components of PVR compliant device and PVR device may be interchanged or otherwise moved from one to the other in any suitable way.

In one suitable embodiment of the present invention PVR compliant device may be used in conjunction with a PVR sidecar to provide PVR functionality as illustrated in . In the arrangement illustrated in PVR compliant device may be implemented in set top box which may be part of user television equipment . PVR device may be implemented in PVR sidecar . PVR sidecar may include any suitable hardware software or both in addition to PVR device to provide any suitable functionality. In one suitable arrangement PVR sidecar may include only PVR device as shown in .

PVR sidecar may communicate with set top box via communications path which may be any suitable wired or wireless communications path. For example if wire based communications path may be a serial cable parallel cable telephone cable fiber optic cable coaxial cable Ethernet cable USB cable FireWire cable component video cables composite cables any other suitable wire based communications path or any combination thereof. If wireless any suitable communications protocol or standard such as IEEE 802.11 wireless application protocol WAP radio frequency RF Bluetooth Extended time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA global systems for mobile communications GSM or any other suitable wireless communications path or protocol may be used.

PVR extensions may be combined with IPG to create a single software component. If PVR extensions are not implemented as part of IPG as shown herein PVR extensions may be independent software modules separate from IPG and may communicate and function in conjunction with IPG . Programming modules that include PVR extensions may be implemented locally using an installation device e.g. a personal computer personal digital assistant USB installation device etc. or may be downloaded to set top box or PVR sidecar from a remote location e.g. a cable headend a distribution facility such as distribution facility software support a web server or from any other suitable location using a cable modem an integrated services digital network ISDN modem a DSL modem a telephone modem a virtual private network VPN wireless connection or any other suitable communications path or protocol.

PVR device in PVR sidecar may communicate with IPG having PVR extensions via PVR APIs . In IPG having PVR extensions and PVR APIs are implemented in set top box . PVR APIs may be implemented locally in set top box using an installation device e.g. a personal computer personal digital assistant etc. or may be downloaded to set top box or PVR sidecar from a remote location e.g. a cable headend a distribution facility such as distribution facility a software support center a web server or any other suitable location using a cable modem an ISDN modem a DSL modem a telephone modem a VPN wireless connection or any other suitable communications path or protocol.

Communication between components implemented in the set top box may occur via communications path which may include serial connections parallel connections wireless connections any suitable connection for communicating information or any combination thereof.

In another suitable arrangement as illustrated in IPG and PVR APIs may be implemented in set top box while PVR extensions and PVR device are implemented in PVR sidecar . IPG may communicate with PVR APIs via communications path in set top box . PVR APIs may in turn communicate with PVR device via communications path which may be any suitable wired or wireless communications path. IPG may communicate with PVR extensions on PVR sidecar via communications path . This arrangement is advantageous because it allows for a plug and play PVR sidecar that provides set top box with the necessary PVR functionality via PVR device and application enhancements via PVR extensions together in a single sidecar unit.

In IPG and PVR extensions are implemented in set top box while PVR device and PVR APIs are implemented in PVR sidecar . This arrangement is advantageous because all components relating directly to the IPG are located on set top box while all components relating directly to PVR functionality are located on PVR sidecar .

In IPG may communicate with PVR extensions via communications path in set top box . IPG may communicate with PVR APIs via communications path which may include any wired or wireless connection. Communication between components implemented in PVR sidecar may occur via communications path which may include serial connections parallel connections wireless connections any suitable method for communicating information or any combination thereof.

In the arrangement where the IPGs on the set top box and PVR sidecar work in conjunction with one another the set top box port of the IPG may perform basic tuning functions PPV functions and authorization functions. The set top box may receive out of band OOB data and may otherwise act as a pass through for the PVR sidecar while the PVR sidecar may receive and process control commands from a remote control or any suitable user input device. A pass through implies that although the PVR sidecar is coupled to the set top box the PVR sidecar may be used as a communications medium for signals sent by the set top box and may not provide any functionality. In this configuration the PVR sidecar may generate all video overlays using for example a video overlay generator that may generate a user interface superimposed over programming being displayed.

In another suitable approach set top box may monitor any communication to and from PVR sidecar via communications path . If PVR sidecar is not detected the IPG may function as it does without PVR functionality using its own port of the IPG to provide basic IPG features. If the PVR sidecar is detected however the IPG may support PVR functionality. If the sidecar is removed the IPG may detect the change and function as though there is no sidecar present causing the PVR sidecar to operate in pass through mode.

In pass through mode the PVR sidecar may for example ignore all user commands from the IR remote control or may receive user commands and communicate them to the set top box for execution. In pass through mode the PVR sidecar need not display programming or video overlays but may rather pass this data directly from the set top box to a display screen. In pass through mode the PVR sidecar may also perform passive functions such as accepting commands to purchase programming maintaining in non volatile memory all parental control settings allowing parental control settings to be polled checking whether a specific channel rating or title is locked checking the validity of a parental control code or purchase code or any other suitable function.

The IPG s PVR functions may be implemented using a set of generic PVR APIs to simplify the porting of the PVR compliant device to the integrated set top environment when it is available. PVR sidecar may also include a porting layer not shown that will simplify the porting of the IPG from set top box to PVR sidecar . This will be especially valuable if multiple sidecar platforms must be supported and may provide for a more seamless integration of the devices IPGs.

The PVR sidecar arrangement of are further illustrated in . Remote control may be used to operate either set top box PVR sidecar or display device . Remote control communicates commands to any of the devices via communications path which may include IR radio waves or any suitable means for controlling set top box and PVR sidecar or display device with remote control .

PVR sidecar set top box or both may communicate with software support or any other remote site via communications path . Software support may be for vendor specific applications located at a remote software support site with which the PVR compliant device may communicate to download additional software applications software upgrades or any other suitable component associated with the components implemented in PVR sidecar set top box or both. Communications path may also be used to download information not specific to the PVR sidecar such as program guide data. Communications path may be a serial connection parallel connection wireless connection any other suitable connection or any combination thereof.

PVR sidecar set top box or both may upload user information to a remote site using communications path . For example PVR sidecar may be configured to communicate to with a remote site such as a cable headend distribution facility software company web server or any other suitable location information relating to a user s profile preferred options recorded programming or any other information on PVR sidecar or set top box .

PVR sidecar may receive guide data from set top box which may be passed from the IPG s data channel such as an out of band OOB data channel. This approach may allow the system to be deployed without having to put a new data delivery infrastructure in place. The IPG data may be augmented to accommodate more data then could be supported by or would be needed by the set top box alone e.g. between 14 and 30 days of data or any other suitable amount of data may be stored . A separate data feed may be developed to support the PVR device. On a cold install set top box may tune to the non PVR data channel until a sufficient amount of data is stored in local storage. The set top may switch under command from the sidecar to the PVR feed. After a power outage the set top may tune immediately to the PVR feed because of data cached on the disk drive.

In certain arrangements set top box and PVR sidecar may communicate information using IR commands. For example set top box may receive an indication via an IR command from remote control . Set top box may then communicate the IR command to PVR sidecar via its own IR command. IR commands may be relayed from remote control to set top box via PVR sidecar in other arrangements. In additional arrangements IR commands may be sent to and from PVR sidecar and set top box that do not originate from remote control .

In the embodiment using the PVR sidecar the PVR sidecar set top box or both may also include third party applications to enable specific functionality or obtain a higher level of performance. Various classes of such third party applications may be used in conjunction with the PVR device. For example applications may be independent of real time video or be time dependant and rely on real time video. These applications may be implemented in set top box and launched by the IPG on PVR sidecar using commands sent over communications path which may be any suitable wired or wireless connection. When one of these applications launches it may send a command to PVR device to disable its functions. While that application is running the sidecar may act in a pure pass through mode.

In another embodiment of the present invention a PVR server may be used to implement PVR functionality as illustrated in . The PVR server may be located in any remote location for example a cable headend a distribution facility such as distribution facility or a main facility such as main facility . The PVR server may be a mainframe computer web server network node or any suitable device or devices for providing information over a network. The PVR server may be provided by for example a programming source or a third party service provider such as an application service provider ASP . The PVR server may provide PVR functionality to more than one set top box. While it is desirable for PVR servers to serve set top boxes in similar locations to reduce latency and enhance the rate of communication between the set top and the server it is not necessary for a server to serve only a specific location since PVR functionality may be identical over various geographic areas.

In PVR device may be provided by PVR server while all other devices e.g. IPG having PVR extensions and PVR APIs may be located on set top box . IPG may communicate with PVR APIs via communications path . PVR APIs may communicate with PVR device via communications path which may include a wired connection a wireless connection or any suitable combination of connections. In the user s local equipment e.g. set top box includes all hardware and software needed to interact with PVR device which provides PVR functionality from a remote location. This arrangement is desirable because it offers users of set top box the ability to easily integrate PVR functionality to their existing set top box by providing plug and play functionality from PVR server .

In both IPG and PVR APIs are implemented in set top box while PVR device and PVR extensions are implemented in PVR server . IPG may communicate with PVR extensions and PVR APIs may communicate with PVR device via communications paths which may include a wired connection a wireless connection or any suitable combination of connections. This arrangement may be found desirable because it equips the user with substantially all IPG components needed to communicate with PVR device and PVR extensions .

In another suitable arrangement as shown in IPG having PVR extensions may be implemented in set top box . IPG may communicate with PVR APIs on PVR server via communications path which may include a wired connection a wireless connection or any suitable combination of connections. This arrangement may be found desirable because substantially all components directed to providing integration of the PVR application are implemented in set top box while substantially all components relating to the PVR functionality are located on PVR server .

In another embodiment of the present invention shown in the PVR device may be incorporated directly into an integrated unit such as set top box . In this arrangement the PVR capability is available directly to the set top box and no additional PVR equipment or communication paths may be needed to implement PVR device to set top box . To support the integrated unit the IPG may communicate with PVR APIs to issue PVR related commands. PVR APIs may be implemented as a separately downloadable module that may communicate with PVR device located on set top box . As with the other embodiments communication occurs between PVR APIs and IPG having PVR extensions . Components implemented in set top box may communicate via communications path which may include a serial connection parallel connection wireless connection any other suitable connection or any combination thereof.

By implementing PVR functionality to a PVR compliant system in one of the foregoing manners the IPG with PVR extensions may provide display screens with embedded PVR functions such as main menu display screen of . Main menu display screen may include various menu headings such as program listings heading cable showcase heading and viewer services heading . Program listings heading may be a heading for options relating to searching for or displaying program listings such as search option . Cable showcase heading may be a heading for options that are available from the cable provider such as PPV option . Viewer services heading may be a heading for options that provide various interactive services such as PVR services to a user. Such options may include recordings option scheduled recordings option and setup option . Display screen may include advertisement and which may be used to promote any suitable program product event reminder or service and may be selected by the user.

Main menu display screen may be provided by the IPG until the user selects an option such as an option from viewer services menu that may involve PVR functionality for example recordings option . In the embodiment where a set top box is coupled to a PVR sidecar the user may interact with main menu display screen using the IPG implemented in the set top box. When the user selects recordings option the IPG may send a request for a display screen associated with the user s request to the PVR extensions which may be provided by the set top box or the PVR sidecar. The PVR extensions may then provide the IPG with a display screen associated with the user s request. If the PVR extensions are provided by the PVR sidecar a communications path may be used for communications between the set top box and the PVR sidecar. The IPG working in conjunction with the PVR extensions may provide the user with PVR functionality and information provided by a PVR device implemented in the PVR sidecar.

In one suitable arrangement a full port of the IPG may be implemented in the set top box the PVR sidecar or both. In this arrangement display screens and may be provided by the PVR sidecar IPG while the set top box IPG may perform functions in support of the PVR sidecar i.e. managing PPV services .

In the embodiment using a PVR server the IPG on the set top box may send a request to the PVR extensions provided by the set top box or the PVR server in response to the user selecting an option from viewer services menu such as recordings option . The PVR extensions may then provide the IPG with a display screen associated with the user s request. If the PVR extensions are provided by the PVR server a communications path may be used for communications between the set top box and the PVR server. The IPG working in conjunction with the PVR extensions may provide the user with PVR functionality and information provided by a PVR device implemented in the PVR server.

In the embodiment using an integrated set top box both the IPG and the PVR extensions may be implemented in the set top box. The IPG may send a request to the PVR extensions in response to the user selecting an option from viewer services menu such as recordings option . The PVR extensions may then provide the IPG with a display screen associated with the user s request.

In a similar manner search display screen of may be provided by only the IPG until a user indicates a desire to record a given program using a PVR. In the user may search for programs in a format provided by the IPG. Any navigational feature for example up and down arrow keys on the remote control as indicated by scroll up indicator and scroll down indicator may be used to navigate the program listings menu. Each program listing may include a program rating and a recording indicator that shows whether a program is scheduled to be recorded. The user may record a program with the PVR device by highlighting and selecting a program .

Search display screen may be partially provided by the PVR device. For example the program listings may include listings for both scheduled programs and recorded programs. The listings for the scheduled programs may be provided by the set top box and the listings for the recorded programs may be provided by the PVR device. The listings may include programs scheduled to be recorded including an indication that they are to be recorded. The indication may be stored on the PVR device and the set top box may use the PVR device as a storage device to store program listings.

While interacting with search display screen the user may indicate a desire to record the given program using the IPG or an input device such as remote control of . When the user indicates a desire to record a program the IPG may request a display screen from the PVR extensions that corresponds to the user s selection. The PVR extensions implemented in the set top box PVR sidecar or PVR server may provide the IPG with display screens corresponding to the user s indication. If the PVR extensions are provided by a PVR sidecar or server a communications path may be used for communications between the IPG and the PVR extensions. The IPG working in conjunction with the PVR extensions may provide the user with PVR functionality and information provided by a PVR device.

For example the PVR extensions may provide the IPG with recording setup screen shown in in response to the user selecting a program provided by the IPG or in response to the user selecting a record option from remote control . Display screen may provide the user with the ability to set or modify various recording setting s including the ability to schedule one time and series recordings. Record option quality option series setup option buffer time before option buffer time after option and cancel option may be provided on display screen .

The user may modify the selected options by using left and right arrow keys on the remote control as indicated by scroll left and scroll right indicators. The user may select record option after modifying the various options available or may cancel the recording at any time by selecting cancel option . If desired the IPG may provide the user with the ability to set a manual recording by specifying a channel date and time and duration to record not shown .

Recording setup display screen may be provided by an IPG working in conjunction with PVR extensions. The IPG may provide a seamless look and feel to the display screen while the PVR extensions may provide the selectable options. When the user submits finalized options to be recorded from recording setup display screen the IPG with PVR extensions may send a command to be executed by a PVR device. If the user selects to record a program that will occur at a later time the IPG with PVR extensions may delay sending the command to the PVR device or the PVR device may delay executing the command until the program occurs. PVR APIs may be used to facilitate communications between the IPG with PVR extensions and the PVR device.

The PVR device may be implemented in a PVR sidecar PVR server or an integrated set top box. If located in a PVR server or sidecar the PVR device may receive requests and provide functionality to the IPG and PVR extensions over a communications path via PVR APIs. Once the user selects record option and returns to screen of scheduled recording indicator may appear for the listing the user has selected to record. The IPG may also provide the ability to initiate a recording from any program information screen by selecting the record option from a display screen provided at least partially by the PVR extensions or by using a remote control such as remote control .

The PVR compliant device may allow the user to select quality at step . The user may be able to select one of several recording qualities to control the amount of storage space required for recorded programs. For example if the user selects higher quality more recording storage space may be required to record an individual program. By selecting lower recording quality the user may be able to record more hours of programming in the same amount of storage space.

The user may then determine if the recording is a one time or series recording at step . A one time recording may record a single occurrence of a program while a series recording may record all occurrences of the program. If the user selects a one time recording the PVR compliant device may then provide the user an opportunity to select the program buffers at step . If the user selects a series recording the PVR compliant device may first provide the user an opportunity to select other options at step before providing the user opportunity to select program buffers at step . The additional options for a series recording may include the number of programs to keep on the PVR device the channels to include in the recording e.g. all channels or just a specific channel etc.

Program buffers may be placed at the beginning and end of the scheduled program to ensure the entire program is recorded. The length of the buffer s may be selected by the user at step . To help the viewer compensate for slight variations in broadcast times the system may allow the viewer to specify an amount of time before and after the program to extend the recording time. For example if the viewer knows that a program they watch regularly begins broadcasting two minutes before the hour the viewer may tell the IPG to begin recording two minutes prior to the program s air time to compensate for the early broadcast of the program. A detailed illustration of steps involved in applying buffers is later discussed in .

When the user returns to the program listing at step the system may display program listings or other screen with record icons next to the programs that are scheduled to be recorded at step . The recording process depicted in may culminate when the system records the program as it occurs at step .

It will be understood that the steps of the process depicted in may be performed in any suitable order. However for the purpose of brevity and clarity only one illustration of the process is provided.

The PVR extensions have been designed to allow the viewer to initiate a recording with a single remote command anywhere a program appears in the IPG or while watching a program with no IPG screens or overlays. For example the viewer may initiate a recording from a program listing screen browse screen flip bar or program information screen simply by pressing the record key on the remote control not shown .

When the viewer presses the record key while a program is selected on the user interface the IPG may initiate a one time recording and display an icon next to the program title indicating that a recording is currently scheduled for the program. Whenever the program listing appears on a display screen the IPG may place the recording option next to the program title.

In response to the user initiating recording setup the system may provide the user an opportunity to allocate beginning and ending program buffers by selecting a time value in step . In step the system may allocate the appropriate amount of storage space to accommodate the length of the buffers and the program being recorded. The system may then determine the time of recording in step . In applying the beginning buffer the system may begin recording the program at the length of time selected by the user prior to the program s scheduled start time in step . To apply the ending buffer the system may stop recording the program at the length of time selected by the user after the program is scheduled to end in step .

Information may be provided to the IPG with PVR extensions by sending a request for information to a PVR device via PVR APIs. The PVR device may be located in for example an integrated set top box a PVR sidecar or a PVR server. In response to receiving a request from the IPG and PVR extensions via PVR APIs the PVR device may provide a list of programs scheduled to be recorded. The PVR device may also provide such information to designate each program scheduled to be recorded in the IPG with recording indicator . In some embodiments the IPG may store the information on programs to be recorded without using the PVR device.

The PVR compliant device may provide access to scheduled recordings through a button on the main menu of the IPG. When the viewer wishes to modify the options for a scheduled recording or determine what recordings are scheduled the viewer may access the scheduled recordings list such as the one depicted in from the IPG main menu . Scheduled recordings may be shown on any listing screen or other IPG screen. Scheduled recordings may also be incorporated into a reminder list which may be displayed whenever a reminder is executed.

Once a program has been recorded by the PVR device the IPG may provide recordings screen shown in by working in conjunction with PVR extensions. The user may access recordings screen by interacting with main menu screen provided by the IPG or by some other technique using for example remote control .

In another suitable approach not shown the list of recorded programs in display screen may be combined with the list of programs scheduled to be recorded in display screen . The list of recorded programs and programs scheduled to be recorded may be further supplemented with all program listings that are scheduled to be presented by the IPG. Providing such integrated lists of programs may be an added convenience for the user.

Recordings screen may include a list of recorded programs that the user may select. Screen may present security icon to indicate that the listed program may only be viewed by certain users or by entering a control code. Users or control criteria may have been identified while the user modified other options in the recording setup process . Television rating and scroll indicators and may again be provided to facilitate user interaction with screen .

The user may view a previously recorded program by selecting the program from recordings display screen . The IPG may send a request to the PVR extensions upon receiving indication from the user to view a recorded program and the PVR extensions may provide a display screen consistent with the user s indication. If desired listings for recorded programs may be shown on other IPG screens.

In the embodiment where a set top box is coupled to a PVR sidecar the user may interact with recordings display screen using an IPG provided by the set top box and PVR extensions provided by either the set top box or the PVR sidecar. When the user selects a recording to view the IPG and PVR extensions may send a request to a PVR device provided by the PVR sidecar to present the recording requested by the user. PVR APIs and a communications path between the set top box and the PVR sidecar may be used to facilitate communications between the IPG PVR extensions and the PVR device. Other embodiments may include an IPG provided wholly or partially by the PVR sidecar.

In the embodiment where a set top box is coupled to a PVR server the user may interact with recordings display screen using an IPG provided by the set top box and PVR extensions provided by either the set top box or the PVR server. When the user selects a recording to view the IPG and PVR extensions may send a request to a PVR device provided by the PVR server to present the recording requested by the user. PVR APIs and a communications path between the set top box and the PVR server may be used to facilitate communications between the IPG PVR extensions and the PVR device. Other suitable embodiments may include an IPG provided wholly or partially by the PVR server.

In the embodiment where an integrated set top box is used the user may interact with recordings display screen using an IPG and PVR extensions provided by the set top box. When the user selects a recording to view the IPG and PVR extensions may send a request to a PVR device provided by the set top box to present the recording requested by the user. PVR APIs may be used to facilitate communications between the IPG PVR extensions and the PVR device.

In any of these embodiments in response to the IPG s request to present a recording the PVR device may generate a presentation of the recording in display screen of . The PVR device may generate the presentation using software hardware or both provided by the set top box PVR device display screen any suitable device or a combination thereof. If the PVR extensions are provided by a PVR sidecar or server a communications path may be used to communicate the recording presentation to the display screen.

Video content of a recorded program may be provided by the PVR device and displayed in display screen of . A playback indicator such as flip bar may be presented to provide the user an ability to control the recording playback. The title and time of the recorded program being displayed may also be presented by flip bar which may also include advertisements . VCR type features may be presented such as play option stop option fast forward option rewind option and pause option . Playback of the recorded program may be controlled using typical VCR controls on a remote control .

It will be understood that the playback indicator may be smaller than flip bar and may not include all components illustrated in . For example the playback indicator may be provided without advertisements and with a smaller area for providing a limited number of playback controls. A smaller modified playback indicator may be preferable to users because less of the program being presented will be covered by the playback indictor.

The user may interact with the playback control functions using the IPG with PVR extensions or the remote control. The IPG may send commands to the PVR device based on the user s indication. For example the user may pause the playback of a recorded program by selecting pause option on flip bar or by selecting pause button on remote control . Upon receiving indication from the user to pause the playback of the recorded program the IPG with PVR extensions may send a pause command to be executed by the PVR device. The PVR device may then suspend providing the presentation of the recorded program to display screen . When the user selects to continue viewing the recorded program by interacting with for example flip bar or remote control the IPG with PVR extensions may send a command to the PVR device to continue providing the recorded program. Upon receipt of the IPG s command the PVR device may execute the command and continue providing the recorded program to display screen .

In reminder display screen is presented with a list of scheduled recordings and reminders. The user may select hide list option to hide the recording reminder list or highlight a program and press the OK key on the remote control to watch the program to be recorded or with a reminder. Upon receiving indication from the user to watch the scheduled program as it is recorded the system may automatically tune in the channel on which the scheduled program is to be presented. Scrolling indicators and may again be provided to assist the user in navigating the recording reminder list. Program guides that provide reminders are illustratively described in Bennington et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 331 877 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be practiced by other than the described embodiments which are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation and the present invention is limited only by the claims.

