---

title: Method to fabricate portable electron source based on nitrogen incorporated ultrananocrystalline diamond (N-UNCD)
abstract: A source cold cathode field emission array (FEA) source based on ultra-nanocrystalline diamond (UNCD) field emitters. This system was constructed as an alternative for detection of obscured objects and material. Depending on the geometry of the given situation a flat-panel source can be used in tomography, radiography, or tomosynthesis. Furthermore, the unit can be used as a portable electron or X-ray scanner or an integral part of an existing detection system. UNCD field emitters show great field emission output and can be deposited over large areas as the case with carbon nanotube “forest” (CNT) cathodes. Furthermore, UNCDs have better mechanical and thermal properties as compared to CNT tips which further extend the lifetime of UNCD based FEA.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09299526&OS=09299526&RS=09299526
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 09299526
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140425
---
The United States Government claims certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the U.S. Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratories and also pursuant to Grant No. N6601 12 1 4237 from DARPA.

X ray tube technologies have not changed drastically since 1895 with two general common design features thermionic electron emission and a single focal spot design. These characteristics make heat dissipation in the X ray target on important operational problem. In addition X rays generated from a single focal point yield a widely diverging X ray coaxially shaped beam leading to geometric distortion of the medical anatomy or internal 3D structures of imaged objects due to magnification.

An improved X ray source design provides a method and article of manufacture which was developed that uses multiple electron sources and is distributed in a 2D array instead of just a single focal spot. Also the method and article of manufacture replaces thermionic electron emission with electron field emission. The use of field emission has not gained much attention in terms of X ray tube technology in the recent past. The biggest hurdle has been the fabrication of a stable field emission source of electrons and the microfabrication techniques required did not exist until the last several decades. The benefits of field emission are appealing when compared to thermionic emission such as lower power consumption and higher brightness. Additionally there are several different designs and materials used in cold cathodes ranging from the original Spindt type emitters with molybdenum pyramidal tips to gated tips. Furthermore cold cathodes made from carbon based materials like carbon nanotubes CNT and diamond have been heavily researched. However field emission properties from ultra nanocrystalline diamond UNCD are very good even with planar geometry without the need for coating them onto high aspect ratio tips which simplifies the microfabrication process. These and other features of the invention will be described in more detail hereinafter with reference to the figures described below.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention a fabrication procedure is described for providing an article of manufacture of a 3 3 flat nitrogen incorporated ultra nanocrystalline diamond N UNCD field emitter array FEA . In the first part a preferred method of preparation is shown in for a cathode extraction grid . As will be discussed hereinafter the cathode was developed using a microfabrication process that allows for individually addressable N UNCD arrays. Electron field emission was demonstrated by applying a bias between a cathode and the monolithically integrated electron extraction grid and these electron emission characterization results and device structure are detailed hereinafter. The X ray system shown in further includes a collimator an X ray target a focusing electrode a spacer a lead shield and with further components detailed hereinafter.

The FEA component was most preferably carried out by monolithical fabrication using microfabrication techniques and the process flow schematic is shown in . In the first steps of a preferred fabrication process shown in p type 100 Si wafers were coated with a low stress 1 micrometer SiNlayer preferably deposited by low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD . This SiNlayer serves as an electrical insulation layer between the base wafer and the electron emitters. Next a thin tungsten layer about 250 nm thick is sputtered onto the SiNlayer for electrical connection to an N UNCD emitters see . Tungsten for the layer was selected for its ability to withstand the high temperatures 850 C. required for the N UNCD growth process and it also serves as a good seed layer for the N UNCD growth. Other like performing refractory metals can also be used. The metal deposition was preferably done using a magnetron sputtering system such as a system from AJA International Inc. or by using a Lesker PVD 250 electron beam evaporator. The N UNCD growth was done in a microwave plasma assisted chemical vapor deposition MPCVD system such as a 915 MHz large area MPCVD system Lambda Technologies Inc. . To obtain a hard mask for pattern transfer in N UNCD a 50 nm titanium layer was deposited by e beam evaporation after UV lithography. For patterning a 2.7 m thick S1827 for example Shipley photoresist layer was spin coated at 3000 rpm baked at 115 C. for 1 min and exposed using a Karl Suss MA 6 mask aligner. The pattern was developed in 351 Microposit developer diluted 1 3 in deionized water DIW for 20 s. Lift off of the Ti layer was done at 100 C. in standard 1165 remover for 3 hours following a 90 second ultrasonic bath. The N UNCD layer was etched by a conventional ICP RIE PlasmaLab 100 using oxygen 50 sccm a chamber pressure 10 mTorr at 1200 W ICP power and 10 W RF power etching rate 50 nm min . After etching the N UNCD layer a solution of HF and HO with a ratio of 1 9 was used to remove the Ti hard mask layer .

The next steps shown in were to create the tungsten electrical wiring circuit suitable for individually addressable pixels. This step was completed by UV optical lithography using a maN 415 Microchem negative photoresist. This photoresist layer was spin coated at 3000 rpm and baked at 100 C. for 90 s a 1.5 m thick layer was obtained. The tungsten layer was etched by SFRIE CS 1700 March at 20 sccm 150 mTorr chamber pressure 250 W RF power and with an etching rate of about 80 nm min. After etching the photoresist was removed with acetone. A sample of the tungsten wiring circuit is shown in . Once the tungsten wiring scheme was finished the base cathode fabrication was completed.

The next step was to make the electron extraction grid as shown by . In order to integrate the electron extraction grid a standoff and electrically insulating layer was needed due to its high dielectric strength a SiOlayer was selected for this step. For a thickness greater than 1 m the SiOlayer was deposited by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD at a low temperature of 100 C. ICP CVD Oxford . During fabrication a 5 m limit was established due to a phenomenon in which deposited SiOon the chamber walls of the deposition system started to flake off and contaminate the wafer surface.

A copper layer was chosen as a preferred form of an electron extraction grid material due to its electrical and thermal properties. However in a most preferred embodiment in order to improve the copper adhesion characteristics the thin 50 nm tungsten layer see was first sputtered onto the SiOsurface layer . To control the location of the copper electroplating process a third UV optical lithography was required. In this step a S 1818 positive photoresist not shown was used allowing for a 1.8 m thick form of the copper grid with small electron extraction openings as shown in . The copper electroplating was performed using a copper sulfate plating process from Lea Ronal Inc. An acetone bath was used to strip the photoresist from the surface. The left over tungsten base plate layer where the grid holes were left from the removal of the photoresist was removed by SFRIE. Finally the SiO layer not shown under the copper grid was etched to expose the N UNCD emitters. A buffered oxide etchant BOE was used to etch the SiOlayer and complete the fabrication process of the N UNCD field emission arrays shown in .

The electron emission characteristics of the micro fabricated field emitter arrays FEA were evaluated by measuring their current voltage behavior. For the experiments the sample consisting of four 3 3 FEA was placed on an electrically insulated Teflon table as shown in . The N UNCD pixels and extraction grid contacts were connected to AWG 20 0.032 in Oxygen free OFHC copper wires using silver epoxy as shown see . Before the I V measurements were performed the electrical contacts of the FEA were tested and some pixels were found to be short circuited. This short circuit problem is related to copper delamination issues and subsequent harsh undercut to the SiOwhere the copper layer is missing leaving the underlying material exposed. After the electrical connections were made to the working pixels a turbo pump was used to evacuate the vacuum chamber. The field emission experiments were conducted at a pressure below 4 10 Torr.

For the current voltage measurements the grid was electrically grounded and the voltage fed to the N UNCD cathode was varied from 0 V to 140 V. The emission currents I at the grid was recorded as the cathode voltage was varied. In this experiment two grids were tested and compared 1 the electroplated copper grid EP Grid shown in which was monolithically fabricated according to the procedure presented hereinbefore and 2 a 1000 mesh TEM copper grid TEM Grid which was attached to the copper electroplated layer using silver epoxy. The distance between the N UNCDs and the EP grid is 5 m while the distance between the N UNCDs and the TEM Grid is 7 m. These values of the cathode grid gaps were used to estimate the externally applied electric field E in Eq. 1. The difference in the gap sizes between the cathode and the grid configurations 1 and 2 is due to the fact that the TEM grid was attached on top of the 2 micrometer copper electroplated layer while the EP grid is part of the copper electroplated layer itself.

The measured I V behavior of the two cathode grid configurations tested is presented in . As shown the emission current per pixel measured at the grid was approximately of the order of 2 A. Based on the I V measurements the N UNCDs field emission characteristics were evaluated according to the Fowler Nordheim FN equation.

In Eq. 1 I is the emission current A E is the electric field applied between the cathode and extraction grid V m is the geometrical field enhancement factor of the emitting surface N UNCD is the work function of the emitting material eV Ais equal to 1.5415 A eV V Bis equal to 6.830 10 eVV m and A m is the emitting area. The parameter y within the exponential term in Eq. 1 corresponds to a correction function due to image force effects and is taken as one for carbon based emitters. The FN plots of the two cathode grid configurations tested are shown as an inset in . In this figure ln I E is plotted as a function of 1 E.

Two regions can be clearly identified in the FN plots presented in a high field region and a low field region. For the two cathode grid configurations tested the data in the low and high field regions were fitted to linear functions. The turn on electric field E for the embodiment was calculated by finding the intercept between the linear functions obtained for the high and low field regions The values obtained for the turn on electric field are presented in Table I and they are in general agreement with results reported in the literature for similar systems. Furthermore the field emission parameters of the N UNCD samples were extracted from the linear function fitted to the data in the high field region of the ln 1 E versus 1 E FN plot as shown in .

Based on Eq. I the work function N uNco and the geometrical field enhancement factor of our N UNCD samples can be related to the slope of the high field regions by the equation 

Therefore Eq. 2 is used in combination with the slopes of the FN plots shown in to determine the N UNCDs effective work function defined in Eq. 3. Results obtained are presented in the Table below and are in agreement with values reported in the literature for similar systems.

In the corresponding FN plot for the EP Grid sample showed a deviation from linearity at high electric fields. This deviation from linearity could be due to any remnant SiObetween the EP grid and the N UNCDs layer which thus reduces the available emission area and affects the effective electric field on the surface of the emitter s layer due to the finite resistance of the SiO. shows that the emission current of the EP Grid sample however has a behavior similar to the TEM grid sample s emission current.

The instant invention of a method and article includes a 3 3 field emitter array for a flat panel X ray source that was successfully fabricated and tested. The results fitted well with previous electron field emission studies. Such an X ray target with a high voltage connection can be integrated to generate transmission type X rays for use in a variety of commercial applications. Depending on the geometry of the given situation a flat panel source can be used in tomography radiography or tomosynthesis. Furthermore the unit can be used as a portable electron or X ray scanner or an integral part of an existing detection system. UNCD field emitters show great field emission output and can be deposited over large areas as the case with carbon nanotube forest CNT cathodes. Furthermore UNCDs have better mechanical and thermal properties as compared to CNT tips which further extend the lifetime of UNCD based FEA.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

