---

title: Asynchronous readout array
abstract: An imaging device is disclosed, the device comprising a pixelated array of semiconductor elements, in which each detecting element is electrically connected to an integrated circuit, the integrated circuit comprising a passive signal path and an active signal path. The passive path provides consecutive frame imaging and the active path detects the location of transient events. The device further comprising a readout decoder block, the readout decoder block controlling operation of the passive paths. Additionally, the device comprises of an address arbitration control block, the address arbitration control block controlling operation of the active paths, wherein the address arbitration control block readout of the active paths are independent of readout of the integrated signal readout from the passive paths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591238&OS=09591238&RS=09591238
owner: Voxtel, Inc.
number: 09591238
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141028
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 040 623 filed on Aug. 22 2014 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 065 508 filed on Oct. 17 2014.

This invention was made with government support under contract FA8650 13 C 1501 and FA8651 13 C 0021 awarded by the Air Force Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates in general to imaging devices. The disclosure relates in particular to semiconductor imaging devices capable of both passive imaging and transient event detection such events as those created by laser pulses.

Photosensitive semiconductor based optical imagers are commonplace. In a semiconductor based imager an array of pixels each comprise of a photosensitive junction or photodetector. When a photon with sufficient energy is incident upon and absorbed in the structure an electron hole pair is created. To read resultant current from absorbed photons an amplifier is required. In CMOS devices an active pixel sensor APS has an integrated circuit for each pixel in the sensor with the photosensitive junction and amplifier built within the same material. In ultraviolet and infrared devices a readout integrated circuit ROIC is commonly used where the photodetector and ROIC are made on different materials then bonded.

In order to achieve dual mode functionality within a pixel such as classic frame rate imaging and high frequency events advanced APS or ROIC designs must be implemented. One such design is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 864 965 wherein a switching control allows either readout high resolution at low frame rate or readout of reduced resolution at high frame rates.

Another such apparatus is described in U.S. Publication US 20120261553 A1 wherein an ROIC is provided which allows for switching between different detection modes. One of the disclosed modes allows for detection of a thermal image and detection of a short laser pulse in a commonly shared readout path. This mode enables capture of a passive image and location of laser events as every frame is readout. This application relates to another approach.

The present disclosure is directed to imaging devices. In one aspect an imaging device in accordance with the present disclosure comprises of a pixelated array of semiconductor detector elements in which each detecting element is electrically connected to an integrated circuit the integrated circuit comprising a passive signal path and an active signal path. The passive path provides consecutive frame imaging and the active path detects the location of transient events. The device further comprising a readout decoder block the readout decoder block controlling operation of the passive paths. Additionally the device comprises of an address arbitration control block the address arbitration control block controls operation of the active paths wherein the address arbitration control block readout of the active paths is independent of readout of the passive paths.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like components are designated by like reference numerals. Methods and embodiments of the present disclosure are described further herein below.

The active path is operated by the address arbitration control block. The address arbitration control block comprises of a row digital output port a column digital output port a row arbitrator and a column arbitrator . Readout of the active path to other circuitry is via row digital output port column output port or combinations thereof as will be discussed further hereinbelow. The digital output ports output row and column information which can be multiplexed to provide the address information. Output port attached to row arbitrator and column out port is attached to column arbitrator . The active path detects transient events and provides address information of those events. The address information along with temporal characteristics allow for asynchronous detection location and frequency characteristics of transient events such as laser pulses. The active path and passive path each have dedicated readout allowing simultaneous passive imaging and active laser detection with asynchronous detection and readout. The pixel array and integrated circuit are discussed in detail further hereinbelow.

Pixelated array is made from a photosensitive semiconductor material referred herein as photodetector material. The photodetector can be made from any photosensitive semiconductor material which can be pixelated non limiting examples include germanium Ge indium gallium arsenide InGaAs indium antimonide InSb indium phosphide InP mercury cadmium telluride HgCdTe silicon Si and all crystalline variations of those listed. Each semiconductor type has spectral response which allows detection at various spectral bands from x ray to infrared. Spectral response of the photodetector materials can be extended or modified by implementation coating and scintillators. Coating include antireflection coating reflection coating bandpass bandstop shortpass longpass notch and other such spectral filtering and combinations thereof. Scintillators allow up converting or down converting of otherwise undetectable wavelengths to wavelengths detectable to the particular photodetector material.

One preferred photodetector material is indium gallium arsenide InGaAs with spectral sensitivity from about 900 nanometers nm to about 1700 nm. Utilizing InGaAs allows for passive imaging in the near infrared region for low light imaging and allows detection of NIR laser such as neodymium doped yttrium aluminum garnet Nd YAG at 1064 nm or Er Glass laser at 1535 nm or any laser that emits in the NIR including the so called eyesafe spectral ranges longer than 1300 nm where the radiation is less of an ocular hazard.

When the photodetector material is made from ultraviolet near infrared or infrared sensitive semiconductor material other than silicon a separate readout integrated circuit ROIC must be manufactured and attached to the pixel array using such methods as solder bump bond hybridization. If the photodetector material is silicon then the circuit can be integrated within the silicon referred generally as active pixel sensors APS although silicon based devices can also use a separate integrated circuit. The ROIC or the APS can be manufactured with well known silicon based photolithography techniques such as those developed in CMOS technology.

The passive path provides the imaging device with the about 60 frame rate image. Passive path has a slow charge integrator a noise reduction circuit a sampling circuit and a readout circuit . Here the slow charge integrator is a capacitor transimpedance amplifier CTIA although other designs could be implemented such as source follower detector per detector SFD or direct injection DI . Here CTIA consists of an amplifier in parallel with a capacitor a switch in series with a capacitor and a reset switch . Switch allows increased capacitance in parallel with amplifier thereby decreasing gain of the amplifier and increasing the well capacity of the pixel. CTIA is sufficiently fast to provide image frame of about 60 frames per second but slow enough not to react to fast current changes such as those induced by a laser pulses incident on the photodiode.

A Noise reduction circuit employs correlated double sampling CDS . Noise reduction circuit has a capacitor in series with the following parallel components an amplifier a capacitor and a switch . Sampling circuit has a switch and a hold capacitor . Closing switch passes to CTIA output to hold capacitor . Opening switch isolates the signal on hold capacitor from the rest of the circuit. A readout circuitry has a buffer and a switch . The readout circuit delivers the signal when row select switch is closed via clocking signals sent from the readout decoder block. When the column is selected via clocking signals from the column decoder node reads out.

Here the readout routine is standard raster scan readout of the passive path as will be described operationally further hereinbelow. The particular CDS shown is exemplary of an active CDS but passive CDS can be implemented without departing from the present disclosure. Likewise either integrate then read ITR or integrate while read IWR routines can be implemented.

An active path has a AC coupling capacitor a continuous reset CTIA circuit a discriminator a latch circuit and a digital flag readout circuit . Coupling capacitor prevents slow changing current to pass yet allows fast current changes to pass such as those induced by laser pulses. Continuous reset circuit has a capacitor a resistor and an amplifier .

A discriminator has a capacitor a switch a amplifier a calibration input and a voltage threshold . Voltage threshold is a user input which can be changed according to the pulse event strength and noise of the system. The voltage threshold is preferably above the noise floor thereby preventing false triggers and low enough to trigger when actual laser pulses are incident on photodiode . Switch and calibration input are used to calibrate the discriminator measuring and applying the amplifier offset across capacitor . When an event occurs above the calibrated threshold the amplifier provides digital output to a latch circuit .

Latch circuit receives the digital output from the discriminator and latches to indicate a laser event. Latch circuit has a NAND gate with output to a NAND gate . NAND gate and a NAND gate are configured in a cross coupled configuration resulting in a set reset latch operation. A reset signal is provided by the column arbitration and provides a signal to both NAND gate and NAND gate allowing reset of the latch circuit independent of the discriminator output. When a laser event occurs the latch circuit holds thereby flagging the digital flag readout logic circuit which in turn indicates readout request of the address arbitration control block.

Digital flag readout logic circuit has a row request and a column request . Row request an open drain circuit is flagged by closing a transistor logic . Column request another open drain circuit is flagged by closing a transistor logic and a transistor logic . The hold signal from the latch closes transistor logic thereby flagging row request . Flagging row request provides temporal information of the event. When the row arbitration decoder sees the flagged row request it performs a row read which closes transistor logic thereby flagging for a column flag readout. After the row readout and column readout the location of the pixel is known.

The combination of the active path and the passive path allows for a simultaneous imaging and transient event detection. The passive path continually rasters providing an image while the active path asynchronously detects transient events and asynchronously reads out the address information. With collection of the two sets of data the image and transient events can be overlaid on a display or otherwise logically correspond in output data. The amplifiers of the integrated circuit can be changed via a controller or shut off either to conserve energy or disable unwanted pixels. Asynchronous readout of both the active and the passive path will be described further below.

The active path arbitrators advance at a rate of about a couple hundred picoseconds per row or column. The timing jitter depends on the scan time of the device which in turn depends on the pixel array size. If only one pixel is flagged in a by InGaAs array the maximum time to scan the array and locate the flag is about 40 ns. Determination of arrival time can be compensated by the location of the signaling pixel because the digital arbitration is deterministic. For instance if tokens are always sent from one end of the row or the column then uncertainty in the arrival time can be adjusted based on the location of the pixel from the end of the column or the row allowing for calibrated time stamps. In addition to spatial compensation various tree and hierarchical decoder and arbitration configurations can also increase readout speed and accuracy as is known in the art.

Similarly the passive decoder can be subdivided for increased readout speed of the entire array. As the passive decoder is clocked the readout can increase in speed about the same ratio as the area is decreased. For instance dividing the scanning into 4 areas increases the readout of the entire array by about four times.

The controller is on chip logic which can be integrated within the device circuitry. The controller can be characterized as a digital integrated circuit microprocessor microcontroller processor or digital signal processor. The controller can be fixed or field programmable.

The controller also allows logical coupling with other optic devices. For example a laser or laser designator operation can be coupled with the device with the controller. For ranging information the controller can coordinate the emission of a laser pulse with the active path receipt of a laser pulse. For use as a laser rangefinder controller can use the signal from column flag event line in the active path of a pixel as shown in and to provide a time to digital circuit with a receipt reflection from an object while also obtaining the address.

For more accurate ranging data or temporal data the signal readout must be quick. In order to achieve faster readout the signal from row request can be used bypassing the column readout this allows faster response but if more than one pixel in the array detects a transient event the ranging information may not be traceable to the exact pixel. Alternatively the signal from the discriminator can be fanned out directly from the discriminator circuit output to a time to digital converter. Fanning out of the pixels or a portion of the pixels allows the signal to bypass the rest of the circuitry which provides address data but increases temporal accuracy. In practice routing constraints allow only a portion of the pixels can be fanned out. In this configuration the temporal data will be the most accurate.

In addition to controlling the passive region of interest and active path ranging the controller can change integration time of the passive pixels. For instance the integration time of the pixels can be stopped early or started later for shortened integration times. This technique can be useful when imaging through semi transparent media and obscurations. For instance obscurations such as rain clouds fog smoke dust and certain glasses can saturate the passive imager during integration periods. Illuminating the area with wavelengths transparent or semi transparent to such obscurations yet still detectable by the photodetector material allow imaging through the obscurations. By shortening the integration time less of the unwanted background noise from the obscurations will be detected and with sufficient illumination objects and scene data imagery can be obtained. In addition ranging information which identifies objects through the obscurations can provide feedback for the controller to adjust the integration time based on the distance to the target and illumination.

In either of the aforementioned configurations and methods implementation of a more accurate discriminator circuit will reduce range walk error of return signals. Range walk error is the error associated with signals of various amplitude. and are two possible circuits which can be employed in the discriminator circuit shown in to reduce range walk error. When using a simple threshold discriminator pulses of different amplitudes trigger at different positions of the rising edge which lead to time of arrival errors. For example a larger signal may trigger before a smaller signal in a simple threshold discriminator since the rising edge approaches the threshold voltage sooner than a smaller signal.

Other methods to increase spectral performance of the device in addition to the aforementioned material types coating and scintillators is based on the material thickness. The thickness of the photodetector material will have an effect on the spectral range of the imaging device based on the photodetector absorption length. Back thinning or wafer removal techniques allow for increased spectral response for materials which have a short absorption length in the desired spectral range. Alternatively thick substrates are desirable when the absorption length of the photodetector material is long. By way of example shows a graph G which contains quantum efficiency curves of InGaAs. The indium phosphide InP substrate can be thinned from the InGaAs array causing spectral response extension to shorter wavelengths. Back thinning extends the short wavelength response from about 900 nm to about 500 nm which allows response to different scene spectral content and detection of additional laser wavelengths. A InP wafer quantum efficiency QE spectra is shown as the dashed line with quantum efficiency from about 900 nm to about 1700 nm. A back thinned InP QE spectra has extended quantum efficiency to about 500 nm. Likewise silicon can be back thinned for increased ultraviolet response.

Additional techniques to increase performance of the device is reduction of noise. Noise can be reduced by implementing pixel disable logic and cooling. Pixel disable logic allows noisy pixels to be eliminated from reading out. Cooling decreases dark current of the photodetector material. Cooling can be achieved by heat exchangers such as fins fans thermoelectric coolers TEC coolant pumping or reservoirs carrying colds liquids such as a liquid nitrogen dewar. For instance when InGaAs photodetector material is used with thermoelectric cooling TEC or other equivalent cooling methods dark current noise is decreased by about half with every 7 of cooling.

The disclosed imaging device has a variety of useful application. In general it can be used in any application in which normal frame rate image and a transient event must be located. Specific applications include imaging of laser pointers rangefinding and detection of friendly and hostile target designator presence while simultaneously collecting imaging information. The passive and active image can be displayed on a monitor overlapping the data from each. In one implementation the imaging device can be coupled with a laser pointer or designator and provide position feedback to the object targeted by a laser pulse. Likewise the imaging device can be used to coordinate target handoff from person to person or vehicle to vehicle. The imaging device can also provide feedback for laser pointer or laser designator optical stabilization. Timing resolution of the imaging device is fine enough to discriminate pulse repetition frequency PRF codes and provide sufficient resolution to obtain ranging information when paired with a controller and time of flight circuitry.

From the description of the present disclosure provided herein one skilled in the art can design the imaging devices in accordance with the present disclosure. For instance one skilled in the art could use SPICE software to simulate and verify designed circuitry. Other design software and chip layout with software is available from a variety of suppliers such as Cadence Design Systems Tanner EDA Silvaco Inc. Synopsys Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corp. Coordination of design and fabrication can be accomplished at any commercial semiconductor integrated circuit fab integrated device manufacturers or pure play semiconductor foundries.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of particular photodetector materials circuitry and operational logic others can be implemented without departing from the disclosure. In summary the present invention is described above in terms of particular embodiments. The invention however is not limited to the embodiments described and depicted herein. Rather the invention is limited only by the claims appended hereto.

