---

title: Method, apparatus and system for broadcasting an alarm for an alarm group
abstract: An approach for broadcasting an alarm to a plurality of devices associated with an alarm group. The alarm is associated with a plurality of devices in an alarm group. The approach includes receiving a request. The request designates a plurality of devices as the alarm group. The approach includes determining an implementation of the alarm for the alarm group based on the request. The approach also includes broadcasting the alarm to the plurality of devices in the alarm group based on the implementation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589454&OS=09589454&RS=09589454
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09589454
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140908
---
Oftentimes groups of individuals who are located at remote locations from each other seek to coordinate their schedules using devices at the remote locations. A common object of such coordinating efforts is to schedule an alarm such as a wake up alarm for the individuals in the group. However such coordinating efforts often require multiple separate communications among the individuals to determine a time for the alarm. Also once the initial scheduling and or coordinating is agreed a subsequent scheduling effort to change the scheduled alarm commonly requires additional multiple communications to ensure all the members of the groups of individuals are apprised of the change.

The processes of scheduling and rescheduling of such alarms are fraught with potential failures to implement and or to communicate the scheduled and or rescheduled alarms at the remotely located devices. Furthermore even when the scheduled alarms are accurately communicated the remote nature of the owners associated with the devices often leaves one or more members in the group inadequately notified by the scheduled alarm to participate in the function associated with the scheduled group alarm. Also it is often difficult for the remotely located members to be assured that all the group members have been adequately notified by an alarm. This difficulty is particularly acute for remotely scheduled alarms that are wake up alarms. This is because the individuals are needed to pass from a sleeping state to consciousness at the wake up alarm and commonly fail to attain consciousness despite the alarm.

Based on the foregoing there is a desire for a method apparatus and system for processing group alarm information and communicating a group alarm for an alarm group such as a wake up alarm which are more efficient and effective for scheduling and broadcasting a group alarm for an alarm group.

A method apparatus and system for broadcasting a group alarm for an alarm group are described. The embodiments of the invention provide a system whereby processing group alarm information and communicating a group alarm for an alarm group such as a wake up alarm are performed efficiently and effectively for scheduling and broadcasting the alarm. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. As is well known the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE collectively referred to as UE for collecting and transmitting group alarm information regarding a group alarm for an alarm group that may include or be associated with applications collectively referred to as applications for processing the group alarm information and interfaces collectively referred to as interfaces for collecting receiving group alarm information based on UE associated with the alarm group. In one embodiment the UE has connectivity to a server platform via networks . In one embodiment the server platform performs one or more functions associated with receiving requests designating the UE as an alarm group determining an implementation of an alarm for the alarm group broadcasting the alarm to the UE in the alarm group and combinations thereof.

By way of example the UE may be a receiver and or transmitter for alarm information and may be used as a standalone device or utilized in conjunction with other user equipment such as a smart phone a tablet an alarm clock a sound system and a personal computer. The UE may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc.

By way of example the applications may be a remote personal alarm software solution intended to collect and store data associated with implementing a group alarm using personal devices such as those intended for use in the home or a temporary sleeping location such as a hotel an airplane a car a vacation home etc. The applications may be any type of application that is executable at the UE such as media player applications social networking applications calendar applications content provisioning services location based service applications navigation applications and the like. In one embodiment one of the applications at the UE may act as a client for the server platform and may perform one or more functions associated with the functions of the server platform such as by interacting with the server platform over the networks or by incorporating applications which may be utilized independently at the server platform .

By way of example the interfaces may be input screens for accepting data utilized in conjunction with requesting an alarm acknowledging an alarm and acknowledging an implementation of a group alarm involving the UE . By way of example the interface may be any type of interface. In certain embodiments the interface may include for example a global positioning sensor for gathering location data e.g. GPS a network detection sensor for detecting wireless signals or receivers for different short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Li Fi near field communication etc. temporal information a camera imaging sensor for gathering image data an audio recorder for gathering audio data and the like. In one scenario the interface may include light sensors oriental sensors augmented with height sensor and acceleration sensor tilt sensors moisture sensors pressure sensors audio sensors e.g. microphone gaze tracking sensors etc.

For illustrative purposes the networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

In one embodiment the server platform may be a platform with multiple interconnected components for processing group alarm information. The server platform may include multiple servers intelligent networking devices computing devices components and corresponding software for configuring one or more user interface elements for facilitating an installation of a device a service or a combination thereof. In addition it is noted that the server platform may be a separate entity of the system or be included within the UE e.g. as part of the applications .

In one embodiment the server platform may receive a request designating a plurality of devices as an alarm group and include instructions regarding generating a personalized alarm. The instructions may specify one or more aspects of the group alarm e.g. an alarm time and an alarm type such as a voice capture a video capture a selected tone a selected rhythm a selected signal etc. or a combination thereof. In one scenario the server platform may present a user interface for inputting an alarm request at the server platform . As an alternative a user of system such as a person organizing a group associated with a group alarm may transmit an alarm request that is received at the server platform .

As shown in a UE such as the UE may replace a server platform such as the server platform . The UE may receive a request designating a plurality of devices as an alarm group and include instructions regarding generating a personalized alarm. In one embodiment the UE may be a platform and operate in an analogous fashion as the server platform with multiple interconnected components in the applications for processing group alarm information.

In one embodiment the rules engine processes information relating to designating a plurality of devices as an alarm group and selecting an implementation of an based on an alarm condition associated with any one of the plurality of devices a device preference a group preference or a combination thereof. A request processed by the rules engine may be for example a request an updated request a change notice associated with an activity state of at least one device of the plurality of devices an implementation acknowledgement associated with an implementation instruction an alternate implementation acknowledgement associated with an alternate implementation instruction or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the rules management module allows a manager to create define modify and delete rules and workflows that determine when an event in the server platform triggers a status summary update and or communication with a user such as a member of the alarm group or a server administrator. A user or the manager may identify exactly what has to happen to trigger a new event e.g. events can be triggered by certain workgroups types of users or a person and or there can be exceptions built into the system for example conditional logic may be applied to the new trigger.

In one embodiment the notification module determines when and under what circumstances an alert notification may be associated with a request a change notice an implementation acknowledgement etc. and be reported to a user. The notification module may also initiate a request a change notice an implementation acknowledgement etc.

In one embodiment the data processing module processes and stores data including group alarm information such as alarm group member device identifiers group member device status information records associated with administering a group alarm and notifications utilized by the server platform .

In one embodiment the authentication module authenticates communications associated with the group alarm. The authentication module may periodically communicate with trust sources regarding relevant tracking of the implementation instructions implementation acknowledgements change notices associated with the devices alarm acknowledgements and acknowledged alarm notices.

In another embodiment the authentication module authenticates UE s for interaction with the server platform . In one embodiment the authentication module causes a verification of user information to configure at least one device to a secured network. In another embodiment the authentication module may detect an error during a user verification process based at least in part on predefined values wherein predefined values include at least in part a preset username and password combination a pin code one or more identifiers other authentication mechanisms or a combination thereof. The authentication process performed by the authentication module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification values may be received as input provided by the user from the UE or other device via a graphical user interface to the server platform e.g. as enabled by the user interface module . Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile data for the user and or UE with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifiers.

In one embodiment the control module is used to monitor events that occur in the server platform for analysis using the rules engine and or the notification module .

In one embodiment the user interface module causes a presentation of one or more administration user interface s to assist at least one user in entering an alarm request or an updated alarm request such as on a display associated with the server platform and or the UE . The user interface module may employ various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the applications of UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives such as menus data entry fields etc. for generating the user interface elements. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to APIs or other function calls corresponding to the browser application or web portal application of the UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives.

In one embodiment the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for connecting at least one device such as a UE to a secured network thereby facilitating a presentation of user interface elements to assist at least one user in configuring at least one device to a secured network. The communication module may be used to communicate a request an updated request a change notice associated with an activity state of at least one device of the plurality of devices an implementation acknowledgement associated with an implementation instruction an alternate implementation acknowledgement associated with an alternate implementation instruction etc. By way of example the communication module may be used to transmit a request from a UE to the server platform for receiving an instruction to personalize an alarm.

In step the server platform receives a request designating a plurality of devices as an alarm group. The received request which may have originated from a device in the alarm group is received at the server platform by the communication module and processed by the data processing module . In one scenario the received request is authenticated by the authentication module . In other embodiments the request may be received or initiated using a device not within the alarm group or via a user interface portal of the server platform e.g. a web based interface to the server platform .

By way of example designation of the devices may include specifying device identifiers e.g. phone numbers hardware identifiers user names etc. for each of the devices within the group. In addition or alternatively a designation of an alarm group can be based on contextual information such as physical proximity calendar information e.g. indicating attendance or participation in a common event or activity activity information etc. In one embodiment physical proximity may be determined using location sensors near field communications short range wireless and or other equivalent technology. The embodiments described above for designating devices are provided by way of illustration and are not intended as limitations.

In step the server platform determines an implementation of an alarm such as a wake up alarm for the alarm group based on the request. Although various embodiments discuss the alarm as a wake up alarm it is contemplated that the approaches described herein are applicable to any type of alarm implementation or notification that is transmitted among the devices with the alarm group. In addition the implementation may designate a type of alarm to broadcast including specifying parameters such as alarm media e.g. sounds graphics etc. alarm parameters e.g. time duration repetition etc. and the like. The implementation may also designate processes and parameters for implementation of the alarm based on the types of devices associated with the alarm group the designated host device for the alarm session the available communication networks the data formats used in the request etc.

In step the notification module broadcasts the alarm to the plurality of devices in the alarm group based on the implementation processed by the data processing module . In one embodiment broadcasting may include transmitting e.g. via a communication channel instructions from an originating device e.g. an alarm host device the server platform etc. to other devices within the alarm group for initiating and or activating the alarm. For example the communication channel may include any of the networks including e.g. data channels voice channels messaging channels etc. In some embodiments when the networks are unavailable or not to be used the broadcast may use non network based signaling include transfer via near field communications short range wireless QR code transmission Bluetooth WiFi etc.

In step the server platform receives as part of the request an instruction to personalize the alarm via one of the user interface module and the communication module or both modules. Once received the data processing module may store the instruction with any data and or content associated with the instruction such as a voice capture a video capture a selected tone a selected rhythm a selected signal along with related data such as alarm group member device identifiers group member device status information records associated with administering a group alarm. In step the data processing module generates a personalized alarm based on the instruction. In generating the personalized alarm the data processing module may utilize part or all of the related data such as the group member device status information in generating the personalized alarm. According to one scenario group member device status information may be utilized to generate a personalized alarm with alternate timing or other features for a group member device depending on a group member device status. The personalized alarm may be broadcast via the notification module .

In step the server platform selects utilizing the rules engine an implementation of the alarm based on an alarm condition associated with any one of the plurality of devices a device preference a group preference or a combination thereof. For example group member device status information associated with a group member device may be utilized in selecting an implementation of an alarm that accounts for whether a group member device has an active connection with the server platform and or a host device in the alarm group.

In step the server platform receives a change notice associated with an activity state of at least one device of the plurality of devices and utilizing the rules engines initiates based on the change notice a process such as updating the initial request determining an implementation determining an alternate implementation the broadcasting of the alarm a broadcasting of an alternate alarm or a combination thereof. For example a change notice regarding group member device status information associated with a group member device may be received and utilized to determine an alternate implementation of a group alarm a personalization associated with the alarm a designation of the host device for the group alarm and the like.

In step the communication module receives an alarm acknowledgement associated with at least one device of the plurality of devices. The alarm acknowledgement may originate from a member device after a member has received the alarm and initiated transmission of the alarm acknowledgement. In general an alarm acknowledgement is to be transmitted within a predetermined period of time after the alarm is broadcast in order to confirm to other group alarm members that the alarm was effective.

In step the server platform or other host device transmits an acknowledged alarm notice based on the alarm acknowledgement received in step . The communication module may transmit the acknowledged alarm notice to one or all of the group member devices associated with the group alarm.

In step the server platform or other host device performs a determination utilizing the control module whether there has been a lack of alarm acknowledgement associated with at least one device of the plurality of devices within a predetermined time period. As noted in the predetermined period of time may for example be designated in an alarm request such as the alarm acknowledgment deadline in graphical representation . The alarm acknowledgment deadline represents a predetermined period of time of five minutes but may be varied according the according to the requirements of a user.

In step the server platform utilizing the rules engine determines an alternate implementation of the alarm based on any lack of alarm acknowledgement determined in step and utilizing at least one of the communication module and the notification module broadcasts an alternate alarm to the plurality of devices in the alarm group based on the alternate implementation. For example if an alarm acknowledgement is not received within a predetermined period of time from one or more users an alternate implementation may involve sending a louder alarm to the member devices associated with the lack of alarm acknowledgement. In another example an alternate implementation may involve signaling member devices from which alarm acknowledgment has been received either to notify the associated users of the lack of acknowledgement or to message them to use alternate means beyond the group alarm to contact the alarm group members from whom an alarm acknowledgement has not been received. In yet another example an alternate implementation may include a system check such as to confirm the networks may be operating to provide an effective link across the wireline and or wireless network s .

In step the server platform and or a host device in the alarm group via the notification module transmits an implementation instruction based on the implementation determined in step and the communication module receives an implementation acknowledgement associated with the implementation instruction. In one example an implementation acknowledgement is received within a predetermined period of time after the implementation instruction is transmitted to confirm that the other group alarm members have received the implementation instructions at their devices. If an implementation acknowledgement is not received within a predetermined period of time from one or more users an alternate implementation instruction may be transmitted and or a system check may be performed such as to confirm the networks may be operating to provide an effective link across the wireline and or wireless network s .

In step the communication module receives an updated request associated with the alarm group and the rules engine determines an alternate implementation based on the updated request. In an example an updated request may be sent from a member device for rescheduling an alarm. The rules engine may determine an alternate implementation based on factors such as an alarm condition associated with any one of the plurality of devices a device preference a group preference or a change notice received from a member device.

In step the server platform via the notification module transmits an alternate implementation instruction based on the alternate implementation determined in step . The communication module may transmit the alternate implementation instruction to one or all of the group member devices associated with the group alarm.

In step the communication module receives an alternate implementation acknowledgement associated with the alternate implementation instruction transmitted in step . In an example an alternate implementation acknowledgement is received within a predetermined period of time after the alternate implementation instruction is transmitted to confirm that the other group alarm members have received the alternate implementation instructions at their devices. If an alternate implementation acknowledgement is not received within a predetermined period of time from one or more users a second alternate implementation instruction may be transmitted and or a system check may be performed such as to confirm the networks may be operating to provide an effective link across the wireline and or wireless network s .

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to one embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communications network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the present invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium such as a non transitory medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the present invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to deliver messages to a user based on their activity status. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

