---

title: Identify experts and influencers in a social network
abstract: On embodiment accesses a set of information comprising one or more elements of information relating to a subject matter, wherein the one or more elements of information have been shared among one or more users of a social-networking system; for each element of information, determines a rate of sharing of the element of information among the one or more users and identifies one or more first users who cause the rate of sharing of the element of information to increase; and identifies one or more influencers associated with the subject matter from the one or more first users identified for each element of information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09252961&OS=09252961&RS=09252961
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09252961
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141120
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 129 filed 3 Mar. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to identifying experts and influencers in a social network and utilizing the identified experts and influencers for advertising social grouping and other suitable purposes.

A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games etc.

This disclosure generally relates to identifying experts and influencers in a social network and utilizing the identified experts and influencers for advertising social grouping and other suitable purposes.

Particular embodiments access a set of information comprising one or more elements of information relating to a subject matter wherein the one or more elements of information have been shared among one or more users of a social networking system for each element of information determine a rate of sharing of the element of information among the one or more users and identify one or more first users who cause the rate of sharing of the element of information to increase and identify one or more influencers associated with the subject matter from the one or more first users identified for each element of information.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Members of a social network may be connected by various types of interdependency or relationships. illustrates an example social network as a graphical representation of its members and the connections between the individual members. In each member of social network is represented as a node and each connection between two members is represented as an edge linking the two corresponding nodes. Note that only a few nodes and edges are included in to simplify the discussion. In practice a social network may include any number of members and there may be any number of connections between the individual members.

In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. Thus social network may be an example social network system implemented as a social networking website. In this case the nodes represent the website users and the edges represent the connections between the individual users. Within a social networking system e.g. social network some users may be connected with many other users whereas some users may be connected with only a few other users. For example in nodes i.e. users A B C are each connected to many other nodes i.e. users whereas nodes i.e. users D E F G are each connected to a few other nodes i.e. users .

When a first user is directly connected to a second user the first user is considered one hop away from the second user. For example in user A and G are directly connected and thus user A is considered one hop away from user G and vice versa. When a first user is connected to a second user through a third user the first user is considered two hop away from the second user. For example in user A and B are connected through user G and thus user A is considered two hop away from user B and vice versa. And so on.

In particular embodiments within a social networking system some users may be considered as experts and some users may be considered as influencers . An expert in general is a person with extensive knowledge or ability based on education research experience or occupation in a specific field. Often an expert is widely recognized as a reliable source of technique or skill and his her peers or the public in a specific field accords an expert s faculty for judging or deciding rightly justly or wisely with authority and status. On the other hand an influencer in general is a person who has the power to sway or influence others based on for example prestige wealth ability or position. Usually an influencer s ability to influence others is with respect to a specific field or subject matter as well. In connection with marketing a form of marketing called influencer marketing or influence marketing has emerged from a variety of recent practices and studies in which marketing focus is placed on specific key individuals or types of individuals i.e. the influencers rather than the target market as a whole. It identifies the individuals that have influence over potential buyers and orients marketing activities around these influencers. Influencers may be potential buyers themselves or they may be third parties who exist either in the supply chain e.g. retailers manufacturers etc. or who are value added influencers e.g. journalists academics industry analysts professional advisers etc. .

In particular embodiments within a social networking system a specific user may be both an expert and an influencer or an expert but not an influencer or an influencer but not an expert or neither. Moreover in particular embodiments an expert or influencer is identified with respect to a specific field product type of product subject matter or topic. A user may be an expert in one field and an influencer in another field. A user may be an expert or influencer on one type of product or subject matter or in one field but not on another type of product or subject matter or in another field. For example a user may be an expert or influencer with respect to automobiles but not an expert or influencer with respect to digital cameras.

In particular embodiments within a social networking system those users who are experts and those users who are influencers are identified either manually or automatically and the identified experts and influencers may be utilized for social networking advertising marketing or other suitable purposes. In particular embodiments experts and influencers may be identified for any subject matter field or type of product and each subject matter field or type of product may have any number of experts and influencers. The field subject matter or type of product may be set at any granularity. For example experts and influencers may be identified for all types of digital cameras or only for single lens reflex SLR digital cameras or only for SLR digital cameras made by Canon Inc. or only for full frame SLR digital cameras made by Canon Inc.

Particular embodiments may manually identify those users in a social networking system who are experts and those users in the social networking system who are influencers in specific fields or with respect to specific subject matters or products. For each given field type of product or subject matter particular embodiments may survey the users of the social networking system and ask the users to identify specific users of the social networking system whom the surveyed users consider as experts and or influencers in the given field or with respect to the given subject matter or type of product. For example with respect to SLR digital cameras each surveyed user may be asked to provide answers to some of the following questions 1 which users would you ask for advice when you want to purchase a SLR digital camera 2 which users would you ask for advice when you have problems with or questions about your SLR digital camera 3 which users would you ask for advice when you want to know the specific features of different models of SLR digital cameras 4 which users would you ask for advice if you want to determine which SLR digital camera is especially suitable to your needs or 5 which users opinions concerning SLR digital cameras do you trust the most. The survey answers may be analyzed to identify those users who are experts and those users who are influencers on SLR digital cameras. For example if a large number of the surveyed users have answered that they would ask user A for advice or help when they have difficulties with their SLR digital cameras or when they want to learn how to use a specific feature of their SLR digital cameras then user A may be considered an expert on SLR digital cameras. Similarly if a large number of the surveyed users have answered that they would ask user B for advice when they want to purchase SLR digital cameras or when they want to know which specific SLR digital cameras are most suitable to their needs then user B may be considered an influencer on SLR digital cameras.

Alternatively or in addition particular embodiments may automatically identify those users in a social networking system who are experts and those users in the social networking system who are influencers in specific fields or with respect to specific subject matters or product types. Particular embodiments may track and analyze user online activities over some periods of time to identify the experts and the influencers on specific subject matters or product types.

There are many channels or means for a network user and more specifically a social networking user to inject various elements of information into a computer network e.g. the Internet . The information may have any suitable format e.g. text image audio video etc. . For example the user may post messages in blogs or on online message boards publish posts articles images audios or videos at websites send emails instant messages or tweets etc. The user who injects an element of information into the network may or may not be the original author of that element of information. For example one user may compose an article himself and post the article at one website and another user may repost the same article at another website. The first user is the original author of the article while the second user is not. Yet both users have injected the same article onto the Internet so that there are two instances of the same article available at two different websites. In particular embodiments when considering the information injected into a computer network by a specific user for some analysis it is irrelevant whether the user is the original author of the information whereas for other analysis whether the user is the original author of the information is taking into consideration.

In particular embodiments a group of information concerning the same subject matter may be referred to as a set of information. That is a set of information may include one or more elements of information in various formats e.g. post message article image that relate to the same subject matter e.g. a type of product a product a topic etc. . Particular embodiments may analyze a set of information to identify one or more experts and one or more influences with respect to the subject matter associated with the set of information. Note that there may be multiple set of information with respect to multiple subject matters and each set of information may be analyzed to identify one or more experts and one or more influences with respect to the specific subject matter associated with that set of information. In particular embodiments STEPS may be used to identify experts and influencers with respect to the subject matter associated with a specific set of information. Since a set of information is analyzed to identify experts and influencers with respect to the subject matter of the set of information in particular embodiments how a set of information is obtained e.g. what specific elements of information are included in the set of information what subject matters the elements of information in the set relate to determines for which subject matter the experts and influencers are identified.

In particular embodiments given a set of information there may be one or more elements of information. As explained above each element of information may have been injected into a computer network multiple times. For example for an article user A may be the original author of the article or the person who has originally identified the importance or accuracy of the article and or initially posts the article at a website. Several users may read the instance of the article posted by user A and among them user B1 may repost the article at another website while user B2 and user B3 may post comments or replies to the article and user B4 may forward the article privately e.g. via instant messages to several of his social connections. Several users may read the instance of the article posted by user B1 and among them user C1 and user C2 may repost the article at two other i.e. a third and a fourth websites while user C3 user C4 and user C5 may post comments or replies to the article and user C6 and user C7 may forward the article privately e.g. via emails to their social connections. And so on. Thus for each element of information included in the set there may be multiple instances of that same element of information included in the set of information.

For each element of information included in the set particular embodiments may attempt to trace its progression i.e. through posting reposting and sharing backward e.g. in time to its root i.e. the first instance the element of information is injected into the system and shared among the users or as close to its root as possible as illustrated in STEP . In the above example the instance of the article reposted by user C1 may be traced back to the instance of the article reposted by user B1 which may in turn be traced back to the instance of the article originally posted by user A . At this point the root of the article has been found. Often when an element of information is injected into a computer network a timestamp is associated with the element of information indicating the date and time the element of information is published or transmitted. In particular embodiments given several instances of the same element of information in the set of information the instance that has the oldest timestamp may be considered the root of the element of information.

In general the user who has initially injected an element of information e.g. posts a message status update or article or sends an email or tweet into the network is likely to be the original author of that element of information or someone who has found the element of information to contain relatively important or accurate content e.g. someone who has identified some accurate or important information regarding a subject matter . In the above example suppose that the article is a review of several popular models of the SLR digital cameras currently on the market. The original author of the article user A is very likely to have certain amount of knowledge and experience with respect to SLR digital cameras in order to be able to write such a review. If when the individual elements of information of a set are traced back to their respective roots several elements of information are traced back to the same user as their original author then this may suggest that this particular user may have extensive knowledge and experience with respect to the subject matter associated with the set as the user is able to compose many messages posts or articles on the subject matter. Consequently given a set of information relating to a specific subject matter if a significant number of elements of information are traced back to the same user as their roots i.e. as their author or as the person who has originally identified their importance or accuracy then particular embodiments may consider that user as an expert with respect to the subject matter associated with the set. In particular embodiments suppose there are n elements of information in the set of information. In this case back tracing each element of information to its root may result in a total of n potential experts i.e. one corresponding to each element of information in the set although some elements of information may be traced back to the same potential expert. Particular embodiments may identify the experts with respect to the subject matter associated with the set from the n potential experts.

Particular embodiments may determine how many elements of information are traced back to the same potential expert. In particular embodiments the more elements of information are traced back to a specific potential expert the more weight is given to that potential expert. Alternatively in particular embodiments each potential export may be assigned a score. The more elements of information are traced back to a specific potential expert the higher score that potential expert has. Over time the scores of the potential experts may be examined and the ones with the higher scores may be identified as actual experts.

Alternatively in particular embodiments a predefined threshold may be used to select the experts with respect to the subject matter associated with the set such that for any given user if the number of elements of information traced back to the user as their roots i.e. as their author or as the person who has initially recognized the importance or accuracy of the elements of information and thus shared these elements of information is greater than or equal to the threshold then particular embodiments may consider the user as an expert with respect to the subject matter associated with the set. The threshold may be determined and defined based on the requirements of the application. Note that there may be multiple users identified in such a manner as the experts with respect to the subject matter associated with the set. Alternatively in particular embodiments the users may be ranked based on the total number of elements of information traced back to them as their roots. The top ranked number of users may be considered as experts with respect to the subject matter associated with the set.

For each element of information in the set of information particular embodiments may examine and analyze the rate of sharing of that element of information as illustrated in STEP . In the above example when user A first posts the first instance of the example element of information some users may read it some users may respond to it e.g. posting comments on it some users may forward it to their acquaintances e.g. sharing the element of information with specific people and some users may repost it elsewhere e.g. sharing the element of information with the general public . Similarly when user B1 reposts the second instance of the same example element of information again some users may read it some users may respond to it some users may forward it to their acquaintances and some users may repost it elsewhere. And so on. Through this process the same element of information is propagated throughout the computer network e.g. the Internet as a result of the network users sharing the element of information with other network users.

Particular embodiments may examine the rate an element of information is shared over time. illustrates an example of the rate of sharing for an element of information over time represented as a curve . Typically when an element of information is first injected into the network its rate of sharing first starts slow but gradually increases over time to reach a high level at some point e.g. near . However the rate of sharing does not usually increase constantly e.g. in a straight line . Instead at several points e.g. along curve the rate of sharing may increase significantly more i.e. having sudden jumps or having significant local increases . Then as time passes the content of the information becomes old and its rate of sharing gradually decreases. However again the rate of sharing does not usually decrease constantly e.g. in a straight line . Instead as illustrated in at several points e.g. along curve the rate of sharing may locally increases i.e. relative to the segments of the curve near the points even though the overall rate of sharing decreases. These significant local increases in the rate of sharing are likely due to that the element of information has been shared e.g. reposted or forwarded by individual users who may each have a relatively large audience that views the user s postings at various points in time. Such a user is more likely to have a stronger influence on the other users than another user who has a relatively small audience that views his postings.

To locate these users who are likely to have stronger influences on the other users particular embodiments may examine the rate of sharing curve e.g. curve of each element of information and locate those points along the curve that the rate of sharing locally increases significantly. The users who have caused these significant local increases may be indentified as influencers for the element of information.

To locate the points on a rate of sharing curve e.g. curve where the rate of sharing for a corresponding element of information locally increases significantly particular embodiments may calculate the first order derivative of the rate of sharing curve which indicates the rate of changing in the curve. Those points on the rate of sharing curve where the corresponding first order derivative indicates higher rates of changing and more specifically higher increase in the rate of sharing in the curve are the points on the curve where the rate of sharing for the corresponding element of information locally increases. When the rate of sharing increases locally at a specific point on the curve the slope of the first order derivate at that point is more positive especially in comparison to the slopes of the first order derivate at other points near that point. In fact the more positive the slope of the first order derivate is at a specific point on the curve the more the rate of sharing increases at that point. In particular embodiments those users who have shared the element of information at these points on the curve where the slopes of the first order derivate of the curve is sufficiently more positive than the slopes of the first order derivate of the curve at other nearby points e.g. above a predefined threshold or the top n points where the slopes of the first order deviate are the greatest may be considered influencers with respect to the subject matter of the element of information as illustrated in STEP . For example in the three users who share the example element of information at points may be considered influencers with respect to the subject matter of the example element of information because the first order derivative of curve i.e. the rate of sharing curve at points has positive slopes.

Consequently in particular embodiments given a set of information relating to a specific subject matter suppose that there are n elements of information in the set of information. In this case by examining the rate of sharing for each element of information a list of one or more potential influencers may be identified for each element of information as described above. Since there are n elements of information in the set there may be n lists of potential influencers identified one corresponding to each element of information. Note that the potential influencers in the n lists may overlap as the same potential influencer may be identified from multiple elements of information. In particular embodiments the influencers with respect to the subject matter of the set may be selected from the n lists of potential influencers.

Particular embodiments may determine how many lists of potential influencers to which the same potential influencer belongs. In particular embodiments the more lists of potential influencers to which a specific potential influencer belongs the more weight is given to that potential influencer. Alternatively in particular embodiments each potential influencer may be assigned a score. The more lists of potential influencers to which a specific potential influencer belongs the higher score that potential influencer has. Over time the scores of the potential influencers may be examined and the ones with the higher scores may be identified as actual influencers.

Alternatively in particular embodiments if a user is identified as an influencer based on the rates of sharing of a significant number of elements of information e.g. by determining the rates of sharing for these elements of information and then calculating their respective first order derivatives then particular embodiments may consider that user as an influencer with respect to the subject matter associated with the set. In particular embodiments a predefined threshold may be used to select the influencers with respect to the subject matter associated with the set such that for any given user if the user is indentified as an influencer based on the rates of sharing of the number of elements of information that is greater than or equal to the threshold then particular embodiments may consider the user as an influencer with respect to the subject matter associated with the set. The threshold may be determined and defined based on the requirements of the application. Note that there may be multiple users identified in such a manner as the influencers with respect to the subject matter associated with the set. Alternatively in particular embodiments the users may be ranked based on the total number of elements of information based on which they are identified as influencers. The top ranked number of users may be considered as influencers with respect to the subject matter associated with the set.

As described before an influencer on a subject matter may or may not also be an expert on the same subject matter. Suppose a given user user X is identified as an influencer on a subject matter e.g. by analyzing the rates of sharing of the elements of information in a set of information relating to the subject matter but not an expert on the same subject matter e.g. not enough elements of information in the set of information relating to the subject matter are traced back to user X as their original author . This suggests that 1 user X has shared a significant number of elements of information relating to the subject matter and 2 when user X shares these elements of information a significant number of other users view the elements of information. However since user X is not also an expert on the subject matter it suggests that user X may not be the original author of the many elements of information on the subject matter that he has shared which in turn suggests that user X has obtained these elements of information from another user.

There are several possibilities as to from which type of user user X has obtained these elements of information. First it is possible that user X has obtained these elements of information directly from their original authors who are potential experts on the subject matter of the elements of information. Second it is possible that user X has obtained these elements of information from other influencers on the subject matter of the elements of information. Finally it is possible that user X has obtained these elements of information from other users who are neither experts nor influencers on the subject matter of the elements of information.

As described above in connection with STEP in particular embodiments each element of information in a set of information relating to a specific subject matter may be traced backward along the process of its sharing among the network users to its root or as close to its root as possible. Suppose several users including for example user X user Y and user Z are each identified as an influencer on the subject matter. Depending on at which points along the sharing process each influencer has shared the element of information particular embodiments may determine how close each influencer is to the root i.e. the original author or the original person who has identified the element of information to be important of the element of information. For example suppose user X has shared the element of information before user Y who in turn has shared the element of information before user Z . In user X may be the user at point user Y may be the user at point and user Z may be the user at point . Within a social networking system user X is likely to be more closely connected to the original author or the person who initially has recognized the importance of the element of information than user Y who in turn is likely to be more closely connected to the original author of the element of information than user Z since user X is able to obtain and share the element of information before user Y who in turn is able to obtain and share the element of information before user Z .

Thus by backward tracking the sharing processes of the elements of information in the set of information particular embodiments are able to determine how closely each influencer is to the roots of the elements of information. Since the original authors or the persons who originally have identified the importance or accuracy of the elements of information are potential experts on the subject matter of the set of information particular embodiments are able to determine how closely each influencer is connected to an expert. Particular embodiments may categorize the influencers e.g. into tiers based on their respective degrees of closeness to the experts. In the above example user X may be a first tier influencer since he is the closest to an expert among the three influencers user Y may be a second tier influencer and user Z may be a third tier influencer since he is the farthest from the expert among the three influencers.

Sometimes it may not be possible to trace specific elements of information back to their respective roots i.e. their respective authors due to for example insufficient data. For example the very first instance that an element of information is shared e.g. posted by its original author may not be available in the set of information. In this case the original author of the element of information cannot be identified by tracing backward e.g. in time the sharing process of the element of information using the instances of the element of information available in the set of information. On the other hand one or more influencers may be identified by analyzing the rates of sharing of each element of information. Given an element of information an influencer who is closest to the root and thus closest to the original author of the element of information may be closely connected to the original author of the element of information within a social networking system because it is likely that this influencer has obtained the element of information directly from its original author. Thus if it is not possible to trace specific elements of information back to their respective roots particular embodiments may identify those influencers who are closest to the respective roots of the elements of information. And then particular embodiments may examine the social networking system to identify those users who are directly connected to i.e. one hop from or who are closely connected to e.g. within two or three hops from the influencers who are closest to the roots of the elements of information. Some of these users may be identified as experts. Particular embodiments may examine the network activities of these selected users to determine whether they are the original authors of the individual elements of information e.g. they have posted the earliest instances of the elements of information . If a selected user is the original author or the person who has originally recognized the importance or accuracy of a significant number e.g. greater than or equal to a predefined threshold of elements of information in the set particular embodiments may identify that selected user as an expert on the subject matter of the set of information as illustrated in STEP .

As described above in particular embodiments the information injected into a computer network by the users of a social networking system may be categorized into one or more sets of information based on the subject matters of the information. In particular embodiments the steps illustrated in may be applied to each set of information to identify one or more experts and or influencers with respect to the subject matter of that set of information. Consequently it is possible that some experts or influencers may be associated with only a few subject matters of a few sets of information or only one subject matter of one set of information while other experts or influencers may be associated with many subject matters of may sets of information or even all the subject matters of all the available sets of information. In particular embodiments if an expert or influencer is associated with many or even all the subject matters he she may be considered a power expert or a power influencer.

The method illustrated in may be used to identify experts and or influencers on various subject matters or products or in various fields. Given a specific subject matter type of product product or field once its experts and or influencers have been identified particular embodiments may utilize them for various purposes.

Particular embodiments may advertise to experts and influencers differently from advertising to users who are not experts and influencers as illustrated in STEP . Often an online advertiser is charged for advertising to users based on some type of charging model. For example with cost per mille CPM or cost per thousand CPT an advertiser is charged based on showing an advertisement to each thousand users. With cost per impression CPI an advertiser is charged based on each time an advertisement is delivered to a user. Other charging models may include for example cost per action CPA cost per click through CPC cost per lead CPL cost per sale CPS etc. When advertising a specific product particular embodiments may charge the advertiser more for advertising to the experts and influencers on the product or the type of product than to non experts and non influencers of the product. For example if the CPI model is used each time the product advertisement is delivered to an expert of the product the advertiser may be charged 0.20. Each time the product advertisement is delivered to an influencer of the product the advertiser may be charged 0.15 or the same amount as the expert. Each time the product advertisement is delivered to a standard user i.e. non expert and non influencer the advertiser may be charged 0.05 i.e. an amount lower than the one charging for the experts and influencers . Because the experts and influencers can provide information about the project and influence other users opinions regarding the product the advertiser is likely to be willing to pay more for advertising to the experts and influencers of the product.

Particular embodiments may market products especially new products to experts and influencers specifically as illustrated in STEP . For example when a new product first becomes available its manufacture usually desires the potential buyers to learn more about the product. If the product is made available to the experts of such type of product the experts may provide reviews analysis comparisons and other types of useful information about the product. If the product is made available to the influencers of such type of products the influencers may persuade other potential buyers to purchase the product. It may be more effective and thus more desirable to make the product available to the experts and influencers than to the standard users i.e. non experts and non influencers . Particular embodiments may provide the experts and influencers of a product to its manufacture so that the manufacture can make the product available to the experts and influencers through suitable means. For example the manufacture may send product samples to the experts and influencers or provide other opportunities for the experts and influencers to receive the product. The manufacture may hold a contest with the product as the reward. A number of winners may be randomly selected to receive the product. At the same time the experts and influencers of the product who have participated in the contest may also be given the product.

Particular embodiments may conduct surveys and focus group studies among the experts and influencers as illustrated in STEP . Given a product conducting surveys and focus group studies among the experts and influencers of the product may provide more insightful responses and thus better analysis than among the non experts and non influencers because the experts and influencers tend to have more knowledge and experience with such type of product. Particular embodiments may provide the experts and influencers of a product to its manufacture so that the manufacture can conduct surveys and focus group studies on the product among some of the experts and influencers.

Particular embodiments may establish social connections among the experts and influencers on a specific subject matter or in a specific field as illustrated in STEP . The experts and influencers on a specific subject matter or product or in a specific field may have common interests. Particular embodiments may notify an expert or influencer on a specific subject matter or in a specific field of other experts and or influencers on the same subject matter or in the same field that belong to the same social networking system so that he has the choice of establishing social connections with the other experts and or influencers. Particular embodiments may establish a social group for a specific subject matter or field and invite the experts and influencers of the subject matter or field to join the group.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . This disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments a social networking system may be hosted on a server e.g. as a social networking website . Its users may access social networking system using their client devices e.g. clients .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

