---

title: Methods for improving the safety of treating patients who are candidates for inhaled nitric oxide treatment
abstract: Disclosed are methods of reducing the risk that a medical treatment comprising inhalation of nitric oxide gas will induce an increase in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in pediatric patients, leading to pulmonary edema. The methods include avoiding or discontinuing administration of inhaled nitric oxide to a pediatric patient determined to have pre-existing left ventricular dysfunction but who otherwise is a candidate for inhaled nitric oxide treatment (e.g., for pulmonary hypertension), and administering inhaled nitric oxide to pediatric patients who are candidates for such treatment and who are determined not to have pre-existing left ventricular dysfunction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08951579&OS=08951579&RS=08951579
owner: INO Therapeutics LLC
number: 08951579
owner_city: Hampton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140804
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 683 417 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 795 741 filed Nov. 21 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 820 866 filed Jun. 22 2010 and now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 494 598 filed Jun. 30 2009 and now abandoned. U.S. Ser. No. 13 683 417 is also a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 651 660 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 431 163 filed Oct. 15 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 821 041 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 293 284 filed Jun. 22 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 494 598 filed Jun. 30 2009 and now abandoned. This application is also a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 683 444 filed Nov. 21 2012 which is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 820 866 filed Jun. 22 2010 and now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 494 598 filed Jun. 30 2009 now abandoned. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 683 444 is also a division of Ser. No. 13 651 660 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 431 163 filed Oct. 15 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 821 041 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 293 284 filed Jun. 22 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 494 598 filed Jun. 30 2009 and now abandoned. The contents of the foregoing applications are incorporated by reference in the present application.

INOmax nitric oxide for inhalation is an approved drug product for the treatment of term and near term 34 weeks gestation neonates having hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension.

The use of inhaled NO iNO has been studied and reported in the literature. Kieler Jensen M et al. 1994 Inhaled Nitric Oxide in the Evaluation of Heart Transplant Candidates with Elevated Pulmonary Vascular Resistance 13 366 375 Pearl R G et al. 1983 Acute Hemodynamic Effects of Nitroglycerin in Pulmonary Hypertension 99 9 13 Ajami G H et al. 2007 Comparison of the Effectiveness of Oral Sildenafil Versus Oxygen Administration as a Test for Feasibility of Operation for Patients with Secondary Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Schulze Neick I et al. 2003 Intravenous Sildenafil Is a Potent Pulmonary Vasodilator in Children With Congenital Heart Disease 108 Suppl II II 167 II 173 Lepore J J et al. 2002 Effect of Sildenafil on the Acute Pulmonary Vasodilator Response to Inhaled Nitric Oxide in Adults with Primary Pulmonary Hypertension 90 677 680 and Ziegler J W et al. 1998 Effects of Dipyridamole and Inhaled Nitric Oxide in Pediatric Patients with Pulmonary Hypertension 158 1388 95 .

One aspect of the invention relates to a pre screening methodology or protocol having exclusionary criteria to be evaluated by a medical provider prior to treatment of a patient with iNO. One objective of the invention is to evaluate and possibly exclude from treatment patients eligible for treatment with iNO who have pre existing left ventricular dysfunction LVD . Patients who have pre existing LVD may experience and are at risk of an increased rate of adverse events or serious adverse events e.g. pulmonary edema when treated with iNO. Such patients may be characterized as having a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure PCWP greater than 20 mm Hg and should be evaluated on a case by case basis with respect to the benefit versus risk of using iNO as a treatment option.

Accordingly one aspect of the invention includes a method of reducing the risk or preventing the occurrence in a human patient of an adverse event AE or a serious adverse event SAE associated with a medical treatment comprising inhalation of nitric oxide said method comprising the steps or acts of a providing pharmaceutically acceptable nitric oxide gas to a medical provider and b informing the medical provider that excluding human patients who have pre existing left ventricular dysfunction from said treatment reduces the risk or prevents the occurrence of the adverse event or the serious adverse event associated with said medical treatment.

Further provided herein is a method of reducing the risk or preventing the occurrence in a human patient of an adverse event or a serious adverse event associated with a medical treatment comprising inhalation of nitric oxide said method comprising the steps or acts of a providing pharmaceutically acceptable nitric oxide gas to a medical provider and b informing the medical provider that human patients having pre existing left ventricular dysfunction experience an increased risk of serious adverse events associated with said medical treatment.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of reducing one or more of an AE or a SAE in an intended patient population in need of being treated with iNO comprising the steps or acts of a identifying a patient eligible for iNO treatment b evaluating and screening the patient to identify if the patient has pre existing LVD and c excluding from iNO treatment a patient identified as having pre existing LVD.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of reducing the risk or preventing the occurrence in a patient of one or more of an AE or a SAE associated with a medical treatment comprising iNO the method comprising the steps or acts of a identifying a patient in need of receiving iNO treatment b evaluating and screening the patient to identify if the patient has pre existing LVD and c administering iNO if the patient does not have pre existing LVD thereby reducing the risk or preventing the occurrence of the AE or the SAE associated with the iNO treatment. Alternatively step c may comprise further evaluating the risk versus benefit of utilizing iNO in a patient where the patient has clinically significant LVD before administering iNO to the patient.

In an exemplary embodiment of the method the method further comprises informing the medical provider that there is a risk associated with using inhaled nitric oxide in human patients who have preexisting or clinically significant left ventricular dysfunction and that such risk should be evaluated on a case by case basis.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method the method further comprises informing the medical provider that there is a risk associated with using inhaled nitric oxide in human patients who have left ventricular dysfunction.

In an exemplary embodiment of the methods described herein a patient having pre existing LVD is characterized as having PCWP greater than 20 mm Hg.

In an exemplary embodiment of the method the patients having pre existing LVD demonstrate a PCWP 20 mm Hg.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method the iNO treatment further comprises inhalation of oxygen O or concurrent ventilation.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method the patients having pre existing LVD have one or more of diastolic dysfunction hypertensive cardiomyopathy systolic dysfunction ischemic cardiomyopathy viral cardiomyopathy idiopathic cardiomyopathy autoimmune disease related cardiomyopathy drug related cardiomyopathy toxin related cardiomyopathy structural heart disease valvular heart disease congenital heart disease or associations thereof.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method the patients who have pre existing LVD are at risk of experiencing an increased rate of one or more AEs or SAEs selected from pulmonary edema hypotension cardiac arrest electrocardiogram changes hypoxemia hypoxia bradycardia or associations thereof.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method the intended patient population in need of being treated with inhalation of nitric oxide has one or more of idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension characterized by a mean pulmonary artery pressure PAPm 25 mm Hg at rest PCWP 15 mm Hg and a pulmonary vascular resistance index PVRI 3 u m congenital heart disease with pulmonary hypertension repaired and unrepaired characterized by PAPm 25 mm Hg at rest and PVRI 3 u m cardiomyopathy characterized by PAPm 25 mm Hg at rest and PVRI 3 u m or the patient is scheduled to undergo right heart catheterization to assess pulmonary vasoreactivity by acute pulmonary vasodilatation testing.

In another exemplary embodiment of any of the above methods the method further comprises reducing left ventricular afterload to minimize or reduce the risk of the occurrence of an adverse event or serious adverse event being pulmonary edema in the patient. The left ventricular afterload may be minimized or reduced by administering a pharmaceutical dosage form comprising nitroglycerin or calcium channel blocker to the patient. The left ventricular afterload may also be minimized or reduced using an intra aortic balloon pump.

INOmax nitric oxide for inhalation was approved for sale in the United States by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA in 1999. Nitric oxide the active substance in INOmax is a selective pulmonary vasodilator that increases the partial pressure of arterial oxygen PaO by dilating pulmonary vessels in better ventilated areas of the lung redistributing pulmonary blood flow away from the lung regions with low ventilation perfusion V Q ratios toward regions with normal ratios. INOmax significantly improves oxygenation reduces the need for extracorporeal oxygenation and is indicated to be used in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate agents. The FDA approved prescribing information for INOmax in effect in 2009 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The DOSAGE section of the prescribing information for INOmax states that the recommended dose of INOmax is 20 ppm and that treatment should be maintained up to 14 days or until the underlying oxygen desaturation has resolved and the neonate is ready to be weaned from INOmax therapy. The ADMINISTRATION section of the prescribing information says that the safety and effectiveness of inhaled nitric oxide have been established in a population receiving other therapies for hypoxic respiratory failure including vasodilators intravenous fluids bicarbonate therapy and mechanical ventilation. The CONTRAINDICATIONS section of the prescribing information states that INOmax should not be used in the treatment of neonates known to be dependent on right to left shunting of blood.

INOmax is a gaseous blend of NO and nitrogen 0.08 and 99.92 respectively for 800 ppm and 0.01 and 99.99 respectively for 100 ppm and is supplied in aluminium cylinders as a compressed gas under high pressure. In general INOmax is administered to a patient in conjunction with ventilatory support and O. Delivery devices suitable for the safe and effective delivery of gaseous NO for inhalation include the INOvent INOmax DS INOpulse INOblender or other suitable drug delivery and regulation devices or components incorporated therein or other related processes which are described in various patent documents including U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 558 083 5 732 693 5 752 504 5 732 694 6 089 229 6 109 260 6 125 846 6 164 276 6 581 592 5 918 596 5 839 433 7 114 510 5 417 950 5 670 125 5 670 127 5 692 495 5 514 204 7 523 752 5 699 790 5 885 621 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 355 670 US 2007 0190184 Ser. No. 10 520 270 US 2006 0093681 Ser. No. 11 401 722 US 2007 0202083 Ser. No. 10 053 535 US 2002 0155166 Ser. No. 10 367 277 US 2003 0219496 Ser. No. 10 439 632 US 2004 0052866 Ser. No. 10 371 666 US 2003 0219497 Ser. No. 10 413 817 US 2004 0005367 Ser. No. 12 050 826 US 2008 0167609 and PCT US2009 045266 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Such devices deliver INOmax into the inspiratory limb of the patient breathing circuit in a way that provides a constant concentration of NO to the patient throughout the inspired breath. Importantly suitable delivery devices provide continuous integrated monitoring of inspired O NOand NO a comprehensive alarm system a suitable power source for uninterrupted NO delivery and a backup NO delivery capability.

As used herein the term children and variations thereof includes those being around 4 weeks to 18 years of age.

As used herein the terms adverse event and AE and variations thereof mean any untoward occurrence in a subject or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product such as nitric oxide and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with such treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding symptom or disease temporarily associated with the use of a medicinal investigational product whether or not related to the investigational product. A relationship to the investigational product is not necessarily proven or implied. However abnormal values are not reported as adverse events unless considered clinically significant by the investigator.

As used herein the terms adverse drug reaction and ADR and variations thereof mean any noxious and unintended response to a medicinal product related to any dose.

As used herein the terms serious adverse event and SAE or serious adverse drug reaction and serious ADR and variations thereof mean a significant hazard or side effect regardless of the investigator s opinion on the relationship to the investigational product. A serious adverse event or reaction is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose results in death is life threatening which refers to an event reaction where the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event reaction however this does not refer to an event reaction that hypothetically may have caused death if it were more severe requires inpatient hospitalization or results in prolongation of existing hospitalization results in persistent or significant disability incapacity is a congenital anomaly birth defect or is a medically important event or reaction. Medical and scientific judgment is exercised in deciding whether reporting is appropriate in other situations such as important medical events that may not be immediately life threatening or result in death or hospitalization but may jeopardize the subject or may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes listed above these are also considered serious. Examples of such medical events include cancer allergic bronchospasm requiring intensive treatment in an emergency room or at home blood dyscrasias or convulsions that do not result in hospitalizations or the development of drug dependency or drug abuse. Serious clinical laboratory abnormalities directly associated with relevant clinical signs or symptoms are also reported.

Left Ventricular Dysfunction. Patients having pre existing LVD may be described in general as those with elevated pulmonary capillary wedge pressure including those with diastolic dysfunction including hypertensive cardiomyopathy those with systolic dysfunction including those with cardiomyopathies including ischemic or viral cardiomyopathy or idiopathic cardiomyopathy or autoimmune disease related cardiomyopathy and side effects due to drug related or toxic related cardiomyopathy or structural heart disease valvular heart disease congenital heart disease idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension pulmonary hypertension and cardiomyopathy or associations thereof. Identifying patients with pre existing LVD is known to those skilled in the medicinal arts and such techniques for example may include assessment of clinical signs and symptoms of heart failure or echocardiography diagnostic screening.

Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Pressure. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure or PCWP provides an estimate of left atrial pressure. Identifying patients with pre existing PCWP is known to those skilled in the medicinal arts and such techniques for example may include measuring by inserting balloon tipped multi lumen catheter also known as a Swan Ganz catheter . Measurement of PCWP may be used as a means to diagnose the severity of LVD sometimes also referred to as left ventricular failure . PCWP is also a desired measure when evaluating pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary hypertension is often caused by an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance PVR but may also arise from increases in pulmonary venous pressure and pulmonary blood volume secondary to left ventricular failure or mitral or aortic valve disease.

In cardiac physiology the term afterload is used to mean the tension produced by a chamber of the heart in order to contract. If the chamber is not mentioned it is usually assumed to be the left ventricle. However the strict definition of the term relates to the properties of a single cardiac myocyte. It is therefore of direct relevance only in the laboratory in the clinic the term end systolic pressure is usually more appropriate although not equivalent.

The term left ventricular afterload and variations thereof refers to the pressure that the chamber of the heart has to generate in order to eject blood out of the chamber. Thus it is a consequence of the aortic pressure since the pressure in the ventricle must be greater than the systemic pressure in order to open the aortic valve. Everything else held equal as afterload increases cardiac output decreases. Disease processes that increase the left ventricular afterload include increased blood pressure and aortic valve disease. Hypertension increased blood pressure increases the left ventricular afterload because the left ventricle has to work harder to eject blood into the aorta. This is because the aortic valve won t open until the pressure generated in the left ventricle is higher than the elevated blood pressure. Aortic stenosis increases the afterload because the left ventricle has to overcome the pressure gradient caused by the stenotic aortic valve in addition to the blood pressure in order to eject blood into the aorta. For instance if the blood pressure is 120 80 and the aortic valve stenosis creates a trans valvular gradient of 30 mmHg the left ventricle has to generate a pressure of 110 mmHg in order to open the aortic valve and eject blood into the aorta. Aortic insufficiency increases afterload because a percentage of the blood that is ejected forward regurgitates back through the diseased aortic valve. This leads to elevated systolic blood pressure. The diastolic blood pressure would fall due to regurgitation. This would result in an increased pulse pressure. Mitral regurgitation decreases the afterload. During ventricular systole the blood can regurgitate through the diseased mitral valve as well as be ejected through the aortic valve. This means that the left ventricle has to work less to eject blood causing a decreased afterload. Afterload is largely dependent upon aortic pressure.

An intra aortic balloon pump IABP is a mechanical device that is used to decrease myocardial oxygen demand while at the same time increasing cardiac output. By increasing cardiac output it also increases coronary blood flow and therefore myocardial oxygen delivery. It consists of a cylindrical balloon that sits in the aorta and counterpulsates. That is it actively deflates in systole increasing forward blood flow by reducing afterload and actively inflates in diastole increasing blood flow to the coronary arteries. These actions have the combined result of decreasing myocardial oxygen demand and increasing myocardial oxygen supply. The balloon is inflated during diastole by a computer controlled mechanism usually linked to either an ECG or a pressure transducer at the distal tip of the catheter some IABPs such as the Datascope System 98XT allow for asynchronous counterpulsation at a set rate though this setting is rarely used. The computer controls the flow of helium from a cylinder into and out of the balloon. Helium is used because its low viscosity allows it to travel quickly through the long connecting tubes and it has a lower risk of causing a harmful embolism should the balloon rupture while in use. Intraaortic balloon counterpulsation is used in situations when the heart s own cardiac output is insufficient to meet the oxygenation demands of the body. These situations could include cardiogenic shock severe septic shock post cardiac surgery and numerous other situations.

Patients eligible for treatment with iNO. In general patients approved for treatment of iNO are term and near term 34 weeks gestation neonates having hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension a condition also known as persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn PPHN . Due to the selective non systemic nature of iNO to reduce pulmonary hypertension physicians skilled in the art further employ INOmax to treat or prevent pulmonary hypertension and improve blood Olevels in a variety of other clinical settings including in both pediatric and adult patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS pediatric and adult patients undergoing cardiac or transplant surgeries pediatric and adult patients for testing to diagnose reversible pulmonary hypertension and in pediatric patients with congenital diaphragmatic hernia. In most if not all of these applications INOmax acts by preventing or treating reversible pulmonary vasoconstriction reducing pulmonary arterial pressure and improving pulmonary gas exchange.

A small proportion of INOmax sales stem from its use by clinicians in a premature infant population. In these patients INOmax is generally utilized by physicians as a rescue therapy primarily to vasodilate the lungs and improve pulmonary gas exchange. Some physicians speculate that INOmax therapy may promote lung development and or reduce or prevent the future development of lung disease in a subset of these patients. Although the precise mechanism s responsible for the benefits of INOmax therapy in these patients is not completely understood it appears that the benefits achieved in at least a majority of these patients are due to the ability of INOmax to treat or prevent reversible pulmonary vasoconstriction.

In clinical practice the use of INOmax has reduced or eliminated the use of high risk systemic vasodilators for the treatment of PPHN. INOmax in contrast to systemic vasodilators specifically dilates the pulmonary vasculature without dilating systemic blood vessels. Further iNO preferentially vasodilates vessels of aveoli that are aerated thus improving V Q matching. In contrast systemic vasodilators may increase blood flow to atelectatic deflated or collapsed alveoli thereby increasing V Q mismatch and worsening arterial oxygenation. See Rubin L J Kerr K M Pulmonary Hypertension in 2d Ed. Parillo J E Dellinger R P eds. Mosby Inc. 2001 pp. 900 09 at 906 Kinsella J P Abman S H The Role of Inhaled Nitric Oxide in Persistent Pulmonary Hypertension of the Newborn in 2d Ed. Askin D F ed. NICU Ink Book Publishers 1997 pp. 369 378 at 372 73 .

INOmax also possesses highly desirable pharmacokinetic properties as a lung specific vasodilator when compared to other ostensibly pulmonary specific vasodilators. For example the short half life of INOmax allows INOmax to exhibit rapid on and off responses relative to INOmax dosing in contrast to non gaseous alternatives. In this way INOmax can provide physicians with a useful therapeutic tool to easily control the magnitude and duration of the pulmonary vasodilatation desired. Also the nearly instantaneous inactivation of INOmax in the blood significantly reduces or prevents vasodilatation of non pulmonary vessels.

 See Davidson et al. March 1998 Inhaled Nitric Oxide for the Early Treatment of Persistent Pulmonary Hypertension of the term Newborn A Randomized Double Masked Placebo Controlled Dose Response Multicenter Study Vol. 101 No. 3 p. 325 .

This study was a double blind randomized placebo controlled multicenter trial of 186 term and near term neonates with pulmonary hypertension and hypoxic respiratory failure. The primary objective of the study was to determine whether INOmax would reduce the receipt of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ECMO in these patients. Hypoxic respiratory failure was caused by meconium aspiration syndrome MAS 35 idiopathic persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn PPHN 30 pneumonia sepsis 24 or respiratory distress syndrome RDS 8 . Patients with a mean PaOof 54 mm Hg and a mean oxygenation index OI of 44 cm HO mm Hg were randomly assigned to receive either 20 ppm INOmax n 97 or nitrogen gas placebo n 89 in addition to their ventilatory support. Patients that exhibited a PaO 60 mm Hg and a pH

Significantly fewer neonates in the ECMO group required ECMO and INOmax significantly improved oxygenation as measured by PaO OI and alveolar arterial gradient.

 See Inhaled Nitric Oxide in Full Term and Nearly Full Term Infants with Hypoxic Respiratory Failure NEJM Vol. 336 No. 9 597 .

The Neonatal Inhaled Nitric Oxide Study NINOS group conducted a double blind randomized placebo controlled multicenter trial in 235 neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure. The objective of the study was to determine whether iNO would reduce the occurrence of death and or initiation of ECMO in a prospectively defined cohort of term or near term neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure unresponsive to conventional therapy. Hypoxic respiratory failure was caused by meconium aspiration syndrome MAS 49 pneumonia sepsis 21 idiopathic primary pulmonary hypertension of the newborn PPHN 17 or respiratory distress syndrome RDS 11 . Infants 14 days of age mean 1.7 days with a mean PaOof 46 mm Hg and a mean oxygenation index OI of 43 cm HO mmHg were initially randomized to receive 100 Owith n 114 or without n 121 20 ppm NO for up to 14 days. Response to study drug was defined as a change from baseline in PaO30 minutes after starting treatment full response 20 mmHg partial 10 20 mm Hg no response 

Adverse Events from CINRGI NINOS. Controlled studies have included 325 patients on INOmax doses of 5 to 80 ppm and 251 patients on placebo. Total mortality in the pooled trials was 11 on placebo and 9 on INOmax a result adequate to exclude INOmax mortality being more than 40 worse than placebo.

In both the NINOS and CINRGI studies the duration of hospitalization was similar in INOmax and placebo treated groups.

From all controlled studies at least 6 months of follow up is available for 278 patients who received INOmax and 212 patients who received placebo. Among these patients there was no evidence of an AE of treatment on the need for re hospitalization special medical services pulmonary disease or neurological sequelae.

In the NINOS study treatment groups were similar with respect to the incidence and severity of intracranial hemorrhage Grade IV hemorrhage per ventricular leukomalacia cerebral infarction seizures requiring anticonvulsant therapy pulmonary hemorrhage or gastrointestinal hemorrhage.

The table below shows adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5 of patients receiving INOmax in the CINRGI study. None of the differences in these adverse reactions were statistically significant when iNO patients were compared to patients receiving placebo.

Post Marketing Experience. The following AEs have been reported as part of the post marketing surveillance. These events have not been reported above. Given the nature of spontaneously reported post marketing surveillance data it is impossible to determine the actual incidence of the events or definitively establish their causal relationship to the drug. The listing is alphabetical dose errors associated with the delivery system headaches associated with environmental exposure of INOmax in hospital staff hypotension associated with acute withdrawal of the drug hypoxemia associated with acute withdrawal of the drug pulmonary edema in patients with CREST syndrome.

An analysis of AEs and SAEs from both the CINRGI and NINOS studies in addition to post marketing surveillance did not suggest that patients who have pre existing LVD could experience an increased risk of AEs or SAEs. Nor was it predictable to physicians skilled in the art that patients having pre existing LVD possibly identified as those patients having a PCWP greater than 20 mmHg should be evaluated in view of the benefit versus risk of using iNO in patients with clinically significant LVD and that these patients should be evaluated on a case by case basis.

The INOT22 study entitled Comparison of supplemental oxygen and nitric oxide for inhalation plus oxygen in the evaluation of the reactivity of the pulmonary vasculature during acute pulmonary vasodilatory testing was conducted both to assess the safety and effectiveness of INOmax as a diagnostic agent in patients undergoing assessment of pulmonary hypertension primary endpoint and to confirm the hypothesis that iNO is selective for the pulmonary vasculature secondary endpoint .

During and upon final analysis of the INOT22 study results applicants discovered that rapidly decreasing the pulmonary vascular resistance via the administration of iNO to a patient in need of such treatment may be detrimental to patients with concomitant pre existing LVD. Therefore a precaution for patients with LVD was proposed to be included in amended prescribing information for INOmax . Physicians were further informed to consider reducing left ventricular afterload to minimize the occurrence of pulmonary edema in patients with pre existing LVD.

In particular the INOT22 protocol studied consecutive children undergoing cardiac catheterization that were prospectively enrolled at 16 centers in the US and Europe. Inclusion criteria 4 weeks to 18 years of age pulmonary hypertension diagnosis i.e. either idiopathic pulmonary hypertension IPAH or related to congenital heart disease CHD repaired or unrepaired or cardiomyopathy with pulmonary vascular resistance index PVRI 3 u m. Later amendments as discussed herein added an additional inclusionary criterion of a PCWP less than 20 mm Hg. Patients were studied under general anaesthesia or with conscious sedation according to the practice of the investigator. Exclusion criteria focal infiltrates on chest X ray history of intrinsic lung disease and or currently taking PDE 5 inhibitors prostacyclin analogues or sodium nitroprusside. The study involved supplemental Oand NO for inhalation plus Oin the evaluation of the reactivity of the pulmonary vasculature during acute pulmonary vasodilator testing. Consecutive children undergoing cardiac catheterization were prospectively enrolled at 16 centers in the US and Europe. As hypotension is expected in these neonatal populations the comparison between iNO and placebo groups is difficult to assess. A specific secondary endpoint was evaluated in study INOT22 to provide a more definitive evaluation.

The primary objective was to compare the response frequency with iNO and Ovs. Oalone in addition all subjects were studied with iNO alone. Patients were studied during five periods Baseline 1 Treatment Period 1 Treatment Period 2 Baseline 2 and Treatment Period 3. All patients received all three treatments treatment sequence was randomized by center in blocks of 4 in Period 1 patients received either NO alone or Oalone and the alternate treatment in Period 3. All patients received the iNO and Ocombination treatment in Period 2. Once the sequence was assigned treatment was unblinded. Each treatment was given for 10 minutes prior to obtaining hemodynamic measurements and the Baseline Period 2 was at least 10 minutes.

Results for the intent to treat ITT population defined as all patients who were randomized to receive drug indicated that treatment with NO plus Oand Oalone significantly increased systemic vascular resistance index SVRI Table 4 . The change from baseline for NO plus Owas 1.4 Woods Units per meter WU m p 0.007 and that for Owas 1.3 WU m p 0.004 . While the change from baseline in SVRI with NO alone was 0.2 WU m p 0.899 which demonstrates a lack of systemic effect.

The ideal pulmonary vasodilator should reduce PVRI and or PAPm while having no appreciable effect on systemic blood pressure or SVRI. In this case the ratio of PVRI to SVRI would decrease given some measure of the selectivity of the agent for the pulmonary vascular bed. The change in the ratio of PVRI to SVRI by treatment is shown in Table 5.

All three treatments have a preferential effect on the pulmonary vascular bed suggesting that all three are selective pulmonary vasodilators. The greatest reduction in the ratio was during treatment with NO plus O possibly due to the decrease in SVRI effects seen with Oand NO plus O. These results are displayed as percent change in the ratio See Table 6 .

NO plus Oappeared to provide the greatest reduction in the ratio suggesting that NO plus Owas more selective for the pulmonary vasculature than either agent alone.

Overview of Cardiovascular Safety. In the INOT22 diagnostic study all treatments NO plus O O and NO were well tolerated. Seven patients of 134 treated experienced an AE during the study. These included cardiac arrest bradycardia low cardiac output CO syndrome elevated ST segment the portion of an electrocardiogram between the end of the QRS complex and the beginning of the T wave on the electrocardiography ECG decreased Osaturation hypotension mouth hemorrhage and pulmonary hypertension PH . The numbers of patients and events were too small to determine whether risk for AEs differed by treatment diagnosis age gender or race. Eight patients are shown in Table 5 due to the time period in which events are reported. AEs were reported for 12 hours or until hospital discharge which limits the period in which such events can be reported . There is technically no time limit in which SAEs are to be reported. So there were 7 AEs during the study and at least one SAE after the study.

A total of 4 patients had AEs assessed as being related to study drug. These events included bradycardia low CO syndrome ST segment elevation on the ECG low Osaturation PH and hypotension. All but 2 AEs were mild or moderate in intensity and were resolved. Study treatments had slight and non clinically significant effects on vital signs including heart rate systolic arterial pressure and diastolic arterial pressure. When an investigator records an AE they are required to say if in their opinion the event is related to the treatment or not. In this case 4 of 7 were considered by the investigator to be related to treatment.

The upper limit of normal PCWP in children is 10 12 mm Hg and 15 mm Hg in adults. In INOT22 a baseline PCWP value was not included as exclusion criteria. However after the surprising and unexpected identification of SAEs in the early tested patients it was determined that patients with pre existing LVD had an increased risk of experiencing an AE or SAE upon administration e.g. worsening of left ventricular function due to the increased flow of blood through the lungs . Accordingly the protocol for INOT22 was thereafter amended to exclude patients with a baseline PCWP greater than 20 mm Hg after one patient experienced acute circulatory collapse and died during the study. The value 20 mm Hg was selected to avoid enrollment of a pediatric population with LVD such that they would be most likely at risk for these SAEs.

SAEs were collected from the start of study treatment until hospital discharge or 12 hours whichever occurred sooner. Three SAEs were reported during the study period and a total of 7 SAEs were reported. Three of these were fatal SAEs and 4 were nonfatal one of which led to study discontinuation . In addition one non serious AE also led to discontinuation. A list of subjects who died discontinued or experienced an SAE is provided in Table 7 below.

Two of the 3 fatal SAEs were deemed related to therapy. All 4 non fatal SAEs were also considered related to therapy. The numbers of patients and events were too small to determine whether risk for SAEs differed by treatment diagnosis age gender or race. At least two patients developed signs of pulmonary edema subjects 05002 and 02002 . This is of interest because pulmonary edema has previously been reported with the use of iNO in patients with LVD and may be related to decreasing PVRI and overfilling of the left atrium. Hayward C S et al. 1996 Inhaled Nitric Oxide in Cardiac Failure Vascular Versus Ventricular Effects 27 80 85 Bocchi E A et al. 1994 Inhaled Nitric Oxide Leading to Pulmonary Edema in Stable Severe Heart Failure 74 70 72 and Semigran M J et al. 1994 Hemodynamic Effects of Inhaled Nitric Oxide in Heart Failure 24 982 988 .

Although the SAE rate is within range for this population it appears that patients with the most elevated PCWP at baseline had a disproportionately high number of these events. Bocchi E A et al. 1994 Semigran M J et al. 1994 .

In the INOT22 study 10 of the total 134 patients had a baseline PCWP 18 mm Hg 7.5 of which 3 subjects 04001 02002 and 04003 had a SAE or were prematurely discontinued from the study 30 compared to 6.5 for the entire cohort.

Although there were very few significant AEs in the INOT22 study these events are consistent with the expected physiologic changes in patients with severe LVD. The events also corroborate prior observations that iNO is rapidly acting selective for the pulmonary vasculature and well tolerated in most patients. The actual incidence of acute LVD during acute ventricular failure AVT is unknown. However it is reasonable to expect that a significant number of patients are at risk for an increased incidence of SAEs upon iNO treatment based upon the nature of the underlying nature of the illness i.e. pulmonary hypertension and cardiovascular disease more generally. Thus it would be advantageous to have physicians identify these patients prior to beginning iNO treatment so that the physicians are alerted to this possible outcome.

Benefits and Risks Conclusions. The INOT22 study was designed to demonstrate the physiologic effects of iNO in a well defined cohort of children i.e. intended patient population with pulmonary hypertension using a high concentration 80 ppm of iNO i.e. one that would be expected to have the maximal pharmacodynamic effect. INOT22 was the largest and most rigorous pharmacodynamic study of iNO conducted to date and it confirms a number of prior observations such as iNO s being rapidly acting selective for the pulmonary vasculature and well tolerated in most patients.

It is also acknowledged that rapidly decreasing the PVR may be undesirable and even dangerous in patients with concomitant LVD. In the INOT22 study the overall numbers of SAEs and fatal SAEs are within the expected range for patients with this degree of cardiopulmonary disease. The overall rate is 7 124 5.6 which is closely comparable to the rate of 6 recently reported in a very similar cohort of patients. Taylor C J et al. 2007 Risk of cardiac catheterization under anaesthesia in children with pulmonary hypertension 98 5 657 61 . Thus the overall rate of SAEs would seem to be more closely related to the underlying severity of illness of the patients rather than to the treatments given during this study.

The INOT22 study results demonstrate that patients who had pre existing LVD may experience an increased rate of SAEs e.g. pulmonary edema . During the course of the study the protocol was amended to exclude patients with a PCWP 20 mmHg. The benefit risk of using iNO in patients with clinically significant LVD should be evaluated on a case by case basis. A reduction in left ventricular afterload may perhaps be applied to minimize the occurrence of pulmonary edema.

