---

title: Conformationally restricted P13K and mTOR inhibitors
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09556203&OS=09556203&RS=09556203
owner: UNIVERSITAET BASEL
number: 09556203
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20141003
---
The invention relates to new morpholino dihydropyrrolo pyrimidines and related compounds as therapeutic agents and diagnostic probes useful for modulating cellular activities such as signal transduction proliferation differentiation programmed cell death migration and cytokine secretion. The compounds of the invention modulate kinase activity in particular phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR DNA PK and ATM kinase activity.

Protein kinases participate in the signaling events which control the activation growth differentiation survival and migration of cells in response to extracellular mediators or stimuli including growth factors cytokines or chemokines. In general these kinases are classified in two groups those that preferentially phosphorylate tyrosine residues and those that preferentially phosphorylate serine and or threonine residues. The tyrosine kinases include membrane spanning growth factor receptors for example the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR and cytosolic non receptor kinases including Src family kinases the Syk family kinases and the Tec family kinases.

Inappropriately high protein kinase activity is involved in many diseases including cancer metabolic diseases immunological diseases and inflammatory disorders. This can be caused either directly or indirectly by the failure of control mechanisms due to mutation overexpression or inappropriate activation of the enzyme.

Protein tyrosine kinases both receptor tyrosine kinases and non receptor kinases are essential for the activation and proliferation of cells of the immune system. Among the earliest detectable events upon immunoreceptor activation in mast cells T cells and B cells is the stimulation of non receptor tyrosine kinases.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3Ks were early on identified as lipid kinases associated with viral oncogens Whitman et al. 315 239 242 1985 and for the last 20 years the connection between cancer and PI3K has been further substantiated Wymann et al. 17 141 149 2005 . PI3Ks have since been recognized to modulate a wide range of cellular activities and to be central to the growth and metabolic control. Genetically modified mice targeting the PI3K pathway and the elucidation of human hereditary disease like Cowden s syndrome tuberous sclerosis ataxia telangiectasia X linked myotubular myopathy and Charcot Marie Tooth neuropathy have provided further insight in the cellular and systemic role of phosphoinositide signaling. Deregulation of phosphoinositide levels and in particular the product of class I PI3Ks PtdIns 3 4 5 P3 is involved in the pathogenesis of cancer chronic inflammation allergy metabolic disease diabetes and cardiovascular problems.

PI3Ks are a family of enzymes which phosphorylate the 3 OH position of the inositol ring of phosphoinositides. They have been divided into three classes on the basis of structural features and in vitro lipid substrate specificity Marone et al. 1784 159 185 2008 . Class I PI3Ks form heterodimers which consist of one of the four closely related approx. 110 kDa catalytic subunits and an associated regulatory subunit belonging to two distinct families. In vitro they are capable to convert PtdIns to PtdIns 3 P PtdIns 4 P to PtdIns 3 4 P2 and PtdIns4 5 P2 to PtdIns 3 4 5 P3 but the in vivo substrate is PtdIns 4 5 P2 Cantley et at. 296 1655 1657 2002 . Class I PI3Ks are activated by a large variety of cell surface receptors comprising growth factor receptors as well as G protein coupled receptors.

Class II PI3Ks are capable to phosphorylate PtdIns and PtdIns 4 P in vitro but their relevant in vivo substrates are still under investigation. This class of large 170 200 kDa enzymes has three members all characterized by a C terminal C2 homology domain. No adaptor molecules for class II PI3Ks have been identified so far. Class III PI3Ks are solely able to phosphorylate PtdIns and thus generate only PtdIns 3 P. The single member of this class is Vps34 of which the Vps34p vacuolar protein sorting mutant 34 protein is the prototype and has been shown to play an essential role in trafficking of newly synthesized proteins from the Golgi to the yeast vacuole an organelle equivalent to lysosomes in mammals Schu et al. 260 88 91 1993 .

Phosphoinositide 4 kinases PI4Ks phosphorylate the 4 OH position of the inositol ring of PtdIns and thereby generate PtdIns 4 P. This lipid can then be further phosphorylated by PtdIns 4 P 5 kinases to generate PtdIns 4 5 P2 which is the main source for phospholipase C and PI3K signaling at the plasma membrane. Four PI4Ks isoforms are known PI4KII and and PI4KIII and . The PI4KIIIs are most closely related to PI3Ks.

The class of PI3K related proteins referred to as class IV PI3Ks consists of high molecular weight enzymes with a catalytic core similar to PI3Ks and PI4Ks and include the target of rapamycin mTOR also known as FRAP DNA dependent protein kinase DNA PKcs the ataxia telangiectasia mutated gene product ATM ataxia telangiectasia related ATR SMG 1 and transformation transcription domain associated protein TRRAP . The first five members are active protein serine threonine kinases that are involved in cell growth control and genome transcriptome surveillance Marone et al. 1784 159 185 2008 . DNA PKcs ATM ATR and SMG 1 are involved in DNA damage responses. The only active kinase not involved in DNA damage is mTOR which is regulated by growth factors and nutrient availability and coordinates protein synthesis cell growth and proliferation. Target of rapamycin mTOR complexes 1 and integrate growth factor signaling via PI3K PKB and the Ras MAPK cascade energy status LKB1 and AMPK and nutrient detection. TOR is positively regulated by PKB Akt which phosphorylates the negative regulator TSC2 in the tuberous sclerosis complex TSC resulting in activation of the GTPase Rheb and mTOR. In parallel mTOR stimulates translation of ribosomal proteins and therefore ribosome biogenesis via the activation Wullschleger et al. 124 471 2006 . Rapamycin and its derivatives RAD001 and CCI 779 bind to FKBP12 and the complex blocks mTOR complex 1 mTORC1 activity very selectively. Various clinical trials were initiated using rapamycin and derivatives mostly in patients with tumors displaying elevated PI3K signaling and hyperactive mTOR.

The PI3K pathway is a key signaling transduction cascade controlling the regulation of cell growth proliferation survival as well as cell migration. PI3Ks are activated by a wide variety of different stimuli including growth factors inflammatory mediators hormones neurotransmitters and immunoglobulins and antigens Wymann et al. 24 366 376 2003 . The class IA PI3K isoforms PI3K and are all bound to one of the p85 p55 p50 regulatory subunits which all harbor two SH2 domains that bind with high affinity to phosphorylated Tyr X X Met motifs. These motifs are present in activated growth factor receptors their substrates and numerous adaptor proteins. As described above activation of the PI3K PKB signaling cascade has a positive effect on cell growth survival and proliferation. Constitutive up regulation of PI3K signaling can have a deleterious effect on cells leading to uncontrolled proliferation enhanced migration and adhesion independent growth. These events favor not only the formation of malignant tumors but also the development of inflammatory and autoimmune disease.

The invention further relates to the use of these compounds as kinase inhibitors and kinase diagnostic probes in particular as phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K and mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR inhibitor compounds with anti cancer activity.

The compounds of the invention are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by PI3K and mTOR kinases. The compounds inhibit tumor growth in mammals show anti cancer activity anti inflammatory activity immunoregulatory properties and beneficial properties in associated pathological conditions.

The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells and organisms in particular human cancer patients.

More specifically the invention provides enantio enriched pyrimidine compounds of formula Ia Ib IIa and IIb 

In another aspect the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds of formula I or II in particular of formula Ia Ib IIa or IIb and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise one or more additional therapeutic agents selected from anti proliferative agents anti inflammatory agents immunomodulatory agents neurotropic factors agents for treating blood disorders agents for treating diabetes and agents for treating immunodeficiency disorders.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting PI3 kinase activity comprising contacting a PI3 kinase with an effective inhibitory amount of a compound of formula I or II in particular of formula Ia Ib IIa or IIb or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of preventing or treating a disease or disorder modulated by PI3 kinase comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I or II in particular of formula Ia Ib IIa and IIb or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Examples of such diseases conditions and disorders include but are not limited to hyperproliferative disorders e.g. cancer including melanoma and other cancers of the skin neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine neurotraumatic diseases stroke diabetes hepatomegaly cardiovascular disease Alzheimer s disease cystic fibrosis autoimmune diseases atherosclerosis restenosis psoriasis allergic disorders inflammation neurological disorders hormone related diseases conditions associated with organ transplantation immunodeficiency disorders destructive bone disorders hyperproliferative disorders infectious diseases conditions associated with cell death thrombin induced platelet aggregation chronic myelogenous leukaemia CML liver disease pathologic immune conditions involving T cell activation and CNS disorders.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of preventing or treating a hyperproliferative disorder comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I or II in particular of formula Ia Ib IIa or IIb or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or thereof alone or in combination with one or more additional compounds having anti hyperproliferative properties. In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of using a compound of this invention to treat a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase and or mTOR in a mammal.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

Another aspect of the invention includes kits comprising a compound of formula I or II in particular of formula Ia Ib IIa or IIb or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a container and optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment.

Another aspect of the invention includes methods of preparing methods of separating and methods of purifying compounds of formula I or II in particular of formula Ia Ib IIa or IIb and novel intermediates useful for preparing compounds formula I or II in particular of formula Ia Ib IIa or IIb .

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials herein described.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon group of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl group may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl group is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl 1 propyl n propyl 2 propyl i propyl 1 butyl n butyl 2 methyl 1 propyl i butyl 2 butyl s butyl 2 methyl 2 propyl t butyl 1 pentyl n pentyl 2 pentyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 butyl 1 hexyl 2 hexyl 3 hexyl 2 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 2 pentyl 4 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 3 pentyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp2 double bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulphur the remaining ring atoms being carbon atoms wherein one or more ring atoms are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 1 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydro furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydro thiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homo piperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyclo 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 octanyl 3H indolyl and quinolizinyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocyclic groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulphur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxy pyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxy pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydro isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocyclic or heteroaryl groups may be bound through carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon linked heterocycles or heteroaryls are bound at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen linked heterocycles or heteroaryls are bound at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or 13 carboline.

The term monocyclic heteroaryl refers to a five or six membered unsubstituted or substituted monocyclic heteroaryl radical which contains 1 2 3 or 4 ring heteroatoms independently selected from N O and S. Monocyclic heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 midazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl. Monocyclic heteroaryl are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired pathological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purpose of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may be reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TIP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukaemia or lymphoid malignancies.

More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma bile duct cancer mantle cell lymphoma CNS lymphoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia non Hodgkin s lymphoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of known chemotherapeutic agents include trastuzumab pertuzumab erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech Roche OSI Pharm. bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca sunitib SUTENT Pfizer Sugen letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis finasunate VATALANIB Novartis oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 sorafenib NEXAVAR Bayer Labs and gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chloro phosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammal 1 and calicheamicin omegal 1 dynemicin including dynemicin A biphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophillin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazol 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone trichothecenes urethane indesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel and TAXOTERE docetaxel doxetaxel Sanofi Aventis chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CP 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethyl ornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrazole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf I and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rII 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECANE ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech Roche and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that may be less cytotoxic to cells compared to the parent compound or drug and is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs O amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as the PI3K and mTOR kinase inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality in which the compounds are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and chemical and biological reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may be separated under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminium and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality during the reaction of other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups I Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of formula I or II or compounds of formula Ia Ib IIa and IIb include stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The term mammal includes but is not limited to humans mice rats guinea pigs monkeys dogs cats horses cows pigs and sheep.

The present invention provides new morpholino dihydropyrrolo pyrimidines and related compounds and pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are useful as therapeutic agents and novel diagnostic probes. Moreover these compounds are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by protein kinases and lipid kinases.

Rwith the meaning monocyclic aryl is preferably phenyl meta or para substituted phenyl or 2 4 3 4 or 3 5 disubstituted phenyl wherein the substituents are selected from halogen C C alkyl halo C C alkyl hydroxy C C alkoxy or optionally C C alkylated or C C acylated amino.

Rwith the meaning heteroaryl is preferably selected from optionally substituted pyridinyl imidazolyl pyrimidinyl furyl indolyl benzimidazolyl indazolyl oxadiazolyl and thiadiazolyl wherein the substituents are selected from C C alkyl halo C C alkyl pyridyl aminopyridyl amino or C C acylamino wherein C C acyl is a C C alkyl halo C C alkyl C C alkenyl pyridyl or aminopyridyl group connected to carbonyl oxycarbonyl such as methoxycarbonyl or aminocarbonyl such as methylaminocarbonyl or optionally substituted arylaminocarbonyl for example 4 4 dimethylaminopiperidino carbonylphenyl aminocarbonyl and combinations thereof.

More preferably Rwith the meaning heteroaryl is pyridinyl or pyrimidinyl wherein the substituents are selected from C C alkyl halo C C alkyl pyridyl aminopyridyl amino or C C acylamino wherein C C acyl is a C C alkyl halo C Calkyl C Calkenyl pyridyl or aminopyridyl group connected to carbonyl oxycarbonyl such as methoxycarbonyl or aminocarbonyl such as methylaminocarbonyl or optionally substituted arylaminocarbonyl and combinations thereof.

Preferably Y is O the ring containing Y being morpholine . In such preferred morpholines the substituents R R Rand Rare preferably chosen such that morpholines correspond to substituents Rof the following structures 

Preferably X is O or S the ring containing X being an annullated morpholine or thiomorpholine respectively . Most preferably X is O.

Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred Ris H. Most preferred m is 1. Most preferred n is 1. Most preferred t is 1.

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for R R R R R and Rin formula I apply likewise to these structures in formula Ia and Ib .

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for R R R R R and Rin formula II apply likewise to these structures in formula IIa and IIb .

Table 1 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 13.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Cpd Nos. 1 16 of formula Ia .

Table 2 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 13.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Cpd Nos. 17 32 of formula Ib .

Table 3 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 13.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Cpd Nos. 33 48 of formula IIa .

Table 4 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 13.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Cpd Nos. 49 64 of formula IIb .

Table 5 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 13.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Cpd Nos. 65 77 of formula Ia .

Table 6 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 13.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Cpd Nos. 78 90 of formula Ib .

The compounds of the invention may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser Reagents for Organic Synthesis v. 1 19 Wiley N.Y. 1967 1999 ed. or Beilsteins Handbuch der organischen Chemie 4. Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database . In certain embodiments the compounds of the invention may be readily prepared using procedures well known to prepare pyrimidines and other heterocycles which are described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry Editors Katritzky and Rees Pergamon Press 1984.

Compounds of the invention may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of the invention may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures well known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

For illustrative purposes Schemes 1 6 show general methods for preparing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples herein below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the compounds of the invention. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of the invention protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparation of the pyrimidine intermediates 2 and 3 from 2 4 6 trihalo 1 3 5 pyrimidine reagent 1 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Y R R Rand Rare as defined above.

Scheme 2 shows a general method for preparation of sulfamidate intermediate 5 from R or S functionalized 3 hydroxymethyl morpholine 4 .

Scheme 3 shows a general method for preparation of fused morpholino pyrimidine 6 from intermediate 2.

Scheme 4 shows a general method for preparation of fused morpholino pyrimidine 7 from intermediate 3.

Scheme 5 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 4 halo pyrimidine intermediate 6 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid Rx H or ester Rx alkyl reagent 8 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl R compounds 9 of formula Ia Ib wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R2 residues are as defined for formula Ia Ib compounds or precursors thereto. For reviews of the Suzuki reaction see Miyaura et al. 1995 Chem. Rev. 95 2457 2483 Suzuki A. 1999 J. Organomet. Chem. 576 147 168 The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh Pd PPh Pd OAc PdCl dppf DCM Pd dba Pt Bu Owens et al. 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 13 4143 4145 Molander et al. 2002 Organic Letters 4 11 1867 1870 U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 433 .

Scheme 6 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 2 halo morpholino pyrimidine intermediate 7 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid Rx H or ester Rx alkyl reagent 8 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl R compounds 10 of formula IIa IIb wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rresidues are as defined for formula II compounds or precursors thereto.

In the methods of preparing the compounds of this invention it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps are separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved for example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoro methyl phenyl acetate Jacob III J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers.

Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

The chemical reactions described in the Examples may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other lipid kinase inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the Examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius C. . Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Fluorochem Acros Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated. The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried. Column chromatography was conducted by using Merck silica gel. H NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker instrument operating at 400 MHz 500 MHz and 600 MHz. H NMR spectra were obtained in deuterated CDCl D DMSO CDOD or D acetone solutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm or TMS 0 ppm . When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in Hertz Hz .

Abbreviations h hours min minutes s seconds FC flash chromatography rt room temperature DCM dichloromethane ACN acetonitrile DMF dimethylformamide EtOAc ethyl acetate EtOH ethanol Cycl cyclohexane MeOH methanol THF tetrahydrofuran DIPEA N N diisopropylethylamine .

A solution of morpholine 22.4 mL 512.4 mmol 4.2 eq in EtOH 100 mL is added dropwise to a cooled 0 C. solution of 2 4 6 trichloropyrimidine 14 mL 122 mmol 1 eq in EtOH 200 mL . The mixture is stirred at rt overnight. The crude mixture is poured onto a saturated solution of NaHSO 1 L and the resulting precipitate is collected by filtration. The solid is redissolved in a minimal amount of DCM and adsorbed on silica gel. FC AcOEt Cycl 1 3 1 1 gives the desired compounds 4 4 6 Dichloropyrimidin 2 yl morpholine 20 yield and 4 2 6 dichloropyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 65 yield .

A solution of SOCl 0.82 mL 11.3 mmol in DCM 0.8 mL is added dropwise to a cooled 5 C. solution of imidazole 2.38 g 34.9 mmol in DCM 15 mL and the temperature kept at 5 C. The cooling bath is removed and the reaction mixture is stirred over 45 min while allowing it to warm up to rt. The mixture is cooled down to 10 C. A solution of S morpholin 3 ylmethanol 0.68 g 5.8 mmol in DCM 5.8 mL is added dropwise while keeping the temperature around 10 C. The mixture is stirred at 5 C. for 2 h and then at 5 C. for 1 h. Water 15 mL is added and the layers are separated. The organic layer is washed with half concentrated brine 15 mL and cooled to 0 C. A solution of NaIO 3.73 g 17.4 mmol in water 40 mL is added followed by RuO HO 8 mg . The bath is removed after 15 min and the dark reaction mixture stirred overnight. The layers are separated and the organic layer is filtered through a silica gel column eluting with excess DCM until no more product is observed by TLC.

A 1.6 M n BuLi solution 1.4 mL is cooled down to 78 C. and a solution of 4 2 6 dichloropyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 435 mg 1.86 mmol in THF 5 mL is added dropwise. The mixture is stirred at 78 C. for 35 min. Cul 14 mg 0.07 mmol and a solution of R tetrahydro 3H 1 2 3 oxathiazolo 4 3 c 1 4 oxazine 1 1 dioxide 333 mg 1.86 mmol in THF 3 mL is added. The mixture is stirred at 78 C. and then allowed to warm to rt then stirred for 16 h. The reaction is quenched by addition of water 1 mL . 15 HCl 10 mL and methanol 5 mL are added and the mixture heated to 60 C. for 5 h. The organic solvents are removed by rotary evaporation and the remaining aqueous layer diluted with 2 M NaOH 5 mL . NaOH pellets are used to adjust the pH to 11. AcOEt 10 mL is added and the mixture stirred for 30 minutes. The layers are separated and the aqueous layer extracted with AcOEt 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The product is precipitated as a brown solid 530 mg 96 and is used without any further purification.

The pyrimidine 147 mg 0.495 mmol boronate 255 mg 0.74 mmol KPO 250 mg 1.18 mmol SPHOS 25 mg 0.06 mmol and Pd OAc 7 mg 0.03 mmol are placed into a round bottom flask under nitrogen. DMF 3 mL is added and nitrogen bubbled through the mixture for 15 min. The reaction mixture is heated to 100 C. for 18 h cooled to rt diluted with AcOEt 10 mL and poured into saturated NHCl 10 mL . The layers are separated and the aqueous layer extracted with AcOEt 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture is purified by column chromatography 1 1 1 3 0 1 Cycl AcOEt . The product is obtained as a solid 77 mg 37 .

n BuLi 1.6 M 1 mL and THF 1 mL are placed into a dry round bottom flask under nitrogen and cooled to 78 C. A solution of the pyrimidine 298 mg 1.27 mmol in THF 3.5 mL is slowly added and the reaction mixture stirred at 78 C. for 30 min. Cul 12 mg 0.06 mmol and a solution of sulfamidate 228 mg 1.27 mmol in THF 2 mL are added. The mixture is stirred at 78 C. for 15 min and then allowed to warm up to rt and stirred over 16 h. The reaction mixture is quenched by addition of water 0.5 mL . A solution of 12 M HCl 5 mLl and EtOH 5 mL is added and the mixture heated to 70 C. for 1.5 h. The organic solvents are removed the residue diluted with 2 M NaOH and solid NaOH added to adjust the pH to 11. The mixtures is diluted with ethyl acetate and stirred at rt over 1.5 h. The solvent is removed and the residue re dissolved in EtOH 7 mL and acidified with 12 M HCl until pH 1 then stirred at rt over 18 h. The mixture is cooled down and NaOH is slowly added until pH 11 then stirred over 2 h and diluted with AcOEt. The layers are separated and the aqueous layer extracted with AcOEt 2 15 mL . The combined organic layers are dried over sodium sulfate and purified by FC 2 1 1 1 cycl AcOEt . The desired product is obtained as a white solid 286 mg 76 .

The pyrimidine 94 mg 0.32 mmol boronate 141 mg 0.41 mmol KPO 134 mg 0.64 mmol SPHOS 14 mg 0.035 mmol and Pd OAc 4 mg 0.016 mmol are placed into a round bottom flask. DMF 2 mL is added and the solution flushed with nitrogen for 10 min then heated to 100 C. under nitrogen for 3 h. The mixtures is cooled to rt and diluted with AcOEt. Saturated NHCl 10 mL is added and the layers are separated. The aqueous layer is extracted with AcOEt 2 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by FC 1 1 1 3 Cycl AcOEt 100 AcOEt 2 MeOH AcOEt . The desired product is obtained as a solid 70 mg 52 yield .

 R 4 Chloro 2 morpholino 5a 6 8 9 tetrahydro 5H pyrimido 5 4 4 5 pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 oxazine 40 mg 0.135 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 45 mg 0.2 mmol KPO 57 mg 0.27 mmol XPhos Pd G2 chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II 5.3 mg 0.007 mmol are placed into a round bottom flask under nitrogen. Dioxane 3 mL is added followed by water 1.5 mL and nitrogen bubbled through the mixture for 15 min. The reaction mixture is heated to 95 C. for 2 h cooled to room temperature diluted with AcOEt 10 mL and poured into saturated NHCl 10 mL . The layers are separated and the aqueous layer is extracted with AcOEt 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture is purified by column chromatography CHCl MeOH 20 1 . The title compound is obtained as a solid 44 mg 92 .

 S 4 Chloro 2 morpholino 5a 6 8 9 tetrahydro 5H pyrimido 5 4 4 5 pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 oxazine 40 mg 0.135 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 45 mg 0.2 mmol KPO 57 mg 0.27 mmol XPhos Pd G2 chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II 5.3 mg 0.007 mmol are placed into a round bottom flask under nitrogen. Dioxane 3 mL is added followed by water 1.5 mL and nitrogen bubbled through the mixture for 15 min. The reaction mixture is heated to 95 C. for 2 h cooled to room temperature diluted with AcOEt 10 mL and poured into saturated NHCl 10 mL . The layers are separated and the aqueous layer is extracted with AcOEt 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture is purified by column chromatography CHCl MeOH 20 1 . The title compound is obtained as a solid 42 mg 88 .

 R 2 Chloro 4 morpholino 5a 6 8 9 tetrahydro 5H pyrimido 5 4 4 5 pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 oxazine 40 mg 0.135 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 45 mg 0.2 mmol KPO 57 mg 0.27 mmol XPhos Pd G2 Chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II 5.3 mg 0.007 mmol are placed into a round bottom flask under nitrogen. Dioxane 3 mL is added followed by water 1.5 mL and nitrogen bubbled through the mixture for 15 min. The reaction mixture is heated to 95 C. for 2 h cooled to room temperature diluted with AcOEt 10 mL and poured into saturated NHCl 10 mL . The layers are separated and the aqueous layer is extracted with AcOEt 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture is purified by column chromatography CHCl MeOH 20 1 . The title compound is obtained as a solid 46 mg 96 .

 S 2 Chloro 4 morpholino 5a 6 8 9 tetrahydro 5H pyrimido 5 4 4 5 pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 oxazine 40 mg 0.135 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 45 mg 0.2 mmol KPO 57 mg 0.27 mmol XPhos Pd G2 chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II 5.3 mg 0.007 mmol are placed into a round bottom flask under nitrogen. Dioxane 3 mL is added followed by water 1.5 mL and nitrogen bubbled through the mixture for 15 min. The reaction mixture is heated to 95 C. for 2 h cooled to rt diluted with AcOEt 10 mL and poured into saturated NHCl 10 mL . The layers are separated and the aqueous layer extracted with AcOEt 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture is purified by column chromatography CHCl MeOH 20 1 . The title compound is obtained as a solid 32 mg 67 .

A2058 cells were plated at 20 000 cells well in a 96 well plate Perkin Elmer Cat. No. 6005558 and 24 h later treated with different compounds for 1 h. For each compound 7 different concentrations were applied on cells 5 M 1.25 M 0.625 M 0.3125 M 0.155 M 0.08 M and 0.04 M . Cells were fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde for 30 min at RT washed 2 times with 1 BSA in PBS permeabilized with 0.1 Triton X 100 in PBS 1 BSA for 30 min at rt and blocked with 5 goat serum in PBS 1 BSA 0.1 Triton X 100 for 30 min at rt. Cells were stained with primary antibody either with rabbit anti pPKB S473 1 500 Cell Signalling Technology Cat. No. 4058 combined with mouse anti Tubulin 1 2000 used for normalization Sigma Cat. No. T9026 or with rabbit anti pS6 S235 S236 1 500 Cell Signalling Technology Cat. No. 4856 combined with mouse anti Tubulin 1 2000 used for normalization over night at 4 C. After 3 times 5 min wash with PBS 1 BSA 0.1 Triton cells were treated with the secondary antibodies goat anti mouse IRDye680 LICOR Cat. No. 926 68070 and goat anti rabbit IRDye800 LICOR 926 32211 each diluted 1 500 in PBS 1 BSA 0.1 Triton for 1 h while shaking in the dark. Cells were washed 3 times 5 min with PBS 1 BSA 0.1 Triton and plate scanned with the Odyssey Infrared Scanning system using both 700 and 800 nm channels. As control for 0 inhibition vehicle 0.2 DMSO was added to cells. To correct for background staining in the data analysis wells were treated only with secondary antibodies.

For data analysis the mean background signal from channel 700 nm and 800 nm were subtracted from each signal in channel 700 nm and 800 nm respectively. The signals in each channel were normalized to the 0 inhibition and then signal ratio 800 nm over 700 nm was performed to obtain the values for either pPBK S473 or pS6 S235 S236 normalized to Tubulin.

ICvalues of each compound were determined by plotting the normalized pPBK S473 and pS6 S235 S236 signals respectively versus the compound concentrations in logarithmic scale and then by fitting a sigmoidal dose response curve with variable slope to the data using GraphPad Prism.

N terminally His tagged PI3K alpha Cat. No. PV4789 0.49 mg ml Alexa Fluor 647 labeled kinase Tracer 314 Cat. No. PV6087 Biotin anti His Tag antibody Cat. No PV6089 and LanthaScreen Eu Streptavidin Cat. No. PV5899 were purchased from Life Technologies. The 1 Kinase Buffer A consists of 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl 1 mM EGTA and 0.01 v v Brij 35 Sigma Cat. No. B4184 100ML .

A 4 fold serial dilution of each compound to be tested was prepared in DMSO master dilution in a 96 well polystyrene plate Falcon Cat. No. 353072 flat bottom with the highest concentration at 1000 M and the lowest at 0.004 M. The master dilution series were diluted further 33.3 fold into Kinase Buffer A by transferring 5 l of each concentration of diluted compound to 162 l Kinase Buffer A in a new 96 well plate resulting to a 3 fold serially compound dilution. Based on a Tracer 314 titration experiment a working concentration of 20 nM was chosen. Therefore a 60 nM Tracer 314 solution in Kinase Buffer A was prepared resulting in a 3 fold concentrated solution. A 3 fold concentrated kinase antibody solution at 15 nM kinase 6 nM antibody and 6 nM Eu Streptavidin was prepared in Kinase Buffer A. Five l of each 3 serially diluted compound were dispensed in a 384 well plate in duplicate. Then to each well 5 l of 3 kinase antibody mixture was added followed by the addition of 5 l 3 Tracer 314 solution. After 1 h incubation at rt time resolved FRET was measured with a Synergy 4 multi mode microplate reader Biotek Instruments using the following settings 100 s delay before data collection 200 s time for data collection 10 measurements per data point. Emission filter 665 nm 8 nm with sensitivity set to 163 and 620 nm 10 nm with sensitivity set to 135 Excitation filter 340 nm 30 nm Dichroic mirror 400 nm.

For data analysis emission ratio was calculated by dividing the signal emitted at 665 nm from the acceptor Alexa Fluor 647 labeled Tracer 314 by the signal emitted at 620 nm from the donor Eu labeled antibody . ICvalues of each compound were determined by plotting the emission ratio versus the compound concentrations in logarithmic scale and then by fitting a sigmoidal dose response curve with variable slope to the data using GraphPad Prism.

