---

title: Method for veryifying authorized signer for mobile device based document escrow service
abstract: A method for authenticating a user to a document escrow service includes steps of logging a mobile phone onto a mobile network, wherein the mobile phone has a biometric sensor, a display, an input apparatus, and a non-transient memory in communication with a processor, and opening a signature application on the mobile device. The method further includes reading the biometric sensor and sending, via the mobile network, biometric data collected from the reading of the biometric sensor to a document execution server or a manufacturer application server. The method further includes receiving, at the mobile phone a permission signal and, dependent upon the permission signal received, using the mobile device to either allow or not allow a web ready document to be signed and returned to the document execution server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596236&OS=09596236&RS=09596236
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09596236
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140409
---
This invention relates generally to authenticating documents and more particularly to methods for escrowing electronically signed documents with reliable authentication.

The disclosures of all of the following provisional and utility patent applications are incorporated by reference herein U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 253 778 filed Oct. 21 2009 entitled Improved Systems and Methods for Document Signing U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 827 filed on Oct. 20 2010 entitled Document Signing Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 840 filed on Oct. 20 2010 entitled Computer Form Action Zone Summary System and Method and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 847 filed on Oct. 20 2010 entitled Form Completion Rate Enhancement System and Method. This application does not rely for priority on the U.S. patent applications listed above nor is a claim made of benefit from the filing date of the U.S. provisional patent application.

Businesses and individuals rely on legally executed documents in a variety of contexts from completion of complex forms used by governments and institutions e.g. insurance forms car loan and purchase forms and the like to simple contracts between individuals e.g. lease agreements wills and a host of miscellaneous arrangements with a range of contracts in between.

Documents signed by overnight envelope take a minimum of one day to reach the recipient and an additional day to be returned. Due to intra office distribution delays and recipients tendency to put paper documents in to do piles the average cycle time using overnight envelopes is 5 7 days. Documents signed by fax have an average cycle time of 2 3 days due to intra office delays procrastination of paper document tasks and fax machine mishaps. Faced with the burden of signing a paper document and returning it by fax scan or mail many recipients put it down on their desk and forget about it.

As a result users are increasingly turning to exchanging executed documents online. These documents not only include a field for including a signature such as the type described above but may be more complex to include additional fields that may require the signer to initial sign or take some other action. To guarantee the authenticity of such documents electronic copies of the documents may be kept in storage by a third party electronic document escrow server.

Nevertheless even the authenticity of document held by a third party escrow service may be questioned at some time. For example written signature information such as the shape of the signature may be falsified by someone who surreptitiously obtained login data from a user such as an email login. In this case an emailed link to a secured document may fall into the wrong hands and the signature falsified as is done on paper documents. Determining whether the signature is real could become a job for a handwriting forensic analyst which could make all the data carried by the electronic copy no better proof of valid execution than a handwritten paper and ink signature. In another case a signature could be coerced by another party and or the document executed on a machine other than that owned by the purported document signer. In yet another case a device owned by the document signer may be stolen and unlocked if it ever was locked by another party who fakes a signature of the purported document signer. In yet other cases one of the parties may for their own reasons dispute the authenticity of a signature.

Thus the authenticity of the signatures on an electronic document escrowed by a third party service is no better than the authenticity data collected along with an escrowed electronic document. To the extent that any of this data is unreliable or hackable there is a chance that a stored document may not represent a validly executed document.

Furthermore it is known that when a person clicks on a link on a cell phone browser or application a document can be sent i.e. downloaded via email or via a link sent via email or other electronic method such as a text message. The downloaded document can be filled out and signed by a possessor of any cell phone having access to a website or email server on which the downloaded document can be accessed. At best if a document is downloaded and signed all that might be proved in some cases is that someone who had access to an email account of the intended recipient downloaded and signed the document. There may be associated biometric data indicating how the document was signed or there may be data indicative of only an image of a signature but these indications may not be sufficient to verify the actual signer in at least some cases.

Some cell phone manufacturers such as Apple e.g. iPhone 5 require or allow fingerprint recognition for unlocking certain of their cell phones but do not now provide nor have indicated that they will ever provide accessibility to the fingerprint recognition device via an API for application developers. In addition out of privacy concerns many cell phones users may be wary of having their fingerprints accessible to many different application developers.

There is thus a need for apparatus and methods to enhance the reliability of the authenticity data stored along with escrowed electronic documents and a related but separate preference to avoid collecting data that users of cell phones and other mobile devices would feel was an invasion of their privacy.

In one aspect some configurations of the present invention therefore provide a method for authenticating a user to a document escrow service that includes steps of logging a mobile phone onto a mobile network wherein the mobile phone has a biometric sensor a display an input apparatus and a non transient memory in communication with a processor and opening a signature application on the mobile phone device. The method further includes reading the biometric sensor and sending via the mobile network biometric data collected from the reading of the biometric sensor to a document execution server a third party database or a manufacturer application server. The method further includes receiving at the mobile phone a permission signal and dependent upon the permission signal received using the mobile device to either allow or not allow a web ready document to be signed and returned to the document execution server.

In another aspect some configurations of the present invention provide a method for authenticating a user to a document escrow service. The method in this aspect includes steps of logging a mobile phone onto a mobile network. The mobile device logged into the mobile network includes a biometric sensor a display an input apparatus and a non transient memory in communication with a processor. The method further includes steps of opening a signature application on the mobile phone reading the biometric sensor to collect biometric data and comparing the collected biometric data from the read biometric sensor to biometric data already stored in the mobile device. The method also includes a step which is dependent upon results of the comparison namely using the mobile phone to either allow or not allow a web ready document to be signed and returned to a document execution server via the mobile network.

In yet another aspect some configurations of the present invention provide a method for authenticating a user to a document escrow service. In this aspect the method includes a step of logging a mobile phone onto a mobile network. The mobile phone has within it a biometric sensor a display an input apparatus and a non transient memory in communication with a processor. The method further includes steps of opening a signature application on the mobile phone reading the biometric sensor and sending via the mobile network biometric data collected from the reading of the biometric sensor via the mobile network to a document execution server. The method further includes receiving via the mobile network a permission signal at the mobile phone from the document execution server and dependent upon the permission signal received using the mobile phone to either allow or not allow a web ready document to be signed and returned via the mobile network to the document execution server.

Still further in some configurations the mobile phone is used to access a web browser which is running the signature application.

Except as otherwise explicitly stated in this description the mobile phone may instead be another mobile device such as a tablet computer.

It will be appreciated that some configurations of the present invention provide enhanced reliability of authenticity data stored along with escrowed electronic documents as well as the avoidance in some embodiments of the collection of certain types of data that users of cell phones and other mobile devices might perceive as an invasion of their privacy.

Generally in a broad aspect the present invention generally comprises a method for authenticating a user to a document escrow service the method comprising the steps of 

 a logging into a mobile device of the group consisting of mobile phones and tablet computers onto a mobile network said mobile device having a biometric sensor a display an input apparatus and a non transient memory in communication with a processor in said mobile device 

 d sending via the mobile network biometric data collected from the reading of the biometric sensor via the mobile network to at least one member of an authentication group selected from the group consisting of a document execution server a third party data base and a manufacturer application server 

 e receiving at the mobile device from said member of the authentication group a permission signal for indicating a match or a non match between the biometric data on the mobile device and the at least one member and

 f depending upon the permission signal received the signature application allowing the document to be signed and returned to the document execution server if there is a match or not allowing the document to be signed if there is no match.

In still another embodiment the present invention provides a method for authenticating a user to a document escrow service which includes the steps of 

 a logging a mobile device of the group consisting of mobile phones and tablet computers onto a mobile network said mobile device having a biometric sensor a display an input apparatus and a non transient memory in communication with a processor in said mobile device 

 d comparing the collected biometric data from the biometric sensor to biometric data previously stored in the mobile device 

 f depending upon a successful comparison the signature application on the mobile device allowing a document to be signed and returned to a document execution server via the mobile network.

For a more complete understanding of the present invention reference is made to the following detailed description and accompanying drawing. In the drawing like reference characters refer to like parts throughout the several views in which 

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. To the extent that the figures illustrate diagrams of the functional blocks of various embodiments the functional blocks are not necessarily indicative of the division between hardware circuitry of every possible embodiment.

As used herein an element or step recited in the singular and proceeded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural said elements or steps unless such exclusion is explicitly stated. Furthermore references to one embodiment of the present invention are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features. Moreover unless explicitly stated to the contrary embodiments comprising or having an element or a plurality of elements having a particular property may include additional such elements not having that property. Still further as used herein and in the appended claims the term biometric data is intended to include a fingerprint as well as an encrypted token of a fingerprint which may be embedded with a document.

A technical result of at least one configuration of the present invention is the operation of one or more biometric sensors to authenticate a user to a signature server.

Generally the present system and method are directed to authenticating documents and more particularly to methods and apparatus for escrowing electronically signed documents with reliable authentication.

As used herein a signer user as seen in may be the document sender or one or more third parties. In addition the term signature field as used herein includes entry fields for information or data that may include signatures signer name unique signer identifiers signature initials addresses or any other information that a document sender may identify as being acceptable forms of information for a particular signature field. For example in one real estate transaction document one signature field type may require entry of the signer user s full legal name another signature field type may require entry of the target real property address another signature field type may include date data and such. Thus for example only and not by way of limitation a signature field may be provided as an entry field for some form of identification or it may be provided as a simple text entry field where a signer user may type anything.

In addition the term signature includes any biometric action by a signer user such as freehand motion using a mouse electronic pen touch screen or any other method for detecting and recording either temporarily or in a stored location graphics unique or capable of being associated with a particular signer user. It may also include iris or other eye scan data fingerprints vocal sound or voiceprints or other available biometrics. The freehand motion may either approximate electronically the signer user s traditional signature i.e. as performed with a pen or pencil on paper or may be a graphic that is quite dissimilar from the signer user s traditional signature.

For present purposes a signature field can be thought of as a generic term for different types of fields. Examples of signature fields include a data entry field or synonymously an information entry field into which text is typed for example a signature entry field into which graphical or other data uniquely associated with a particular signer user is entered and a biometric field into which a signature or other type of biometric data that is uniquely associated with a particular signer user is entered. The term biometric field may be considered a more generic form of a signature entry field. The term signature entry field should however be distinguished from the more generic term signature field. It may help to illustrate the hierarchy 

For example and referring to with respect to the signing of an unsigned electronic document some embodiments of the present system include a document execution server DES in communication with a document and authentication data storage device a document summary server and a document flag server . The document execution server is configured to receive over a network from a document sender a scaffold document that contains one or more information entry fields together with additional data representative of the identities of signer users who are to sign the electronic document and parties to be copied the envelope information .

As further shown in some embodiments also include a document summary server is in communication with the document execution server and associated with a scaffold electronic document via network described in further detail below. The document summary server facilitates the entry by a signer user of information into one or more information entry fields in a scaffold document .

The system further includes a document flag server in communication with the document execution server and associated scaffold electronic document via network described in further detail below. Referring now to and the document flag server associates one or more flags a signal or alert such as a graphical representation of a sign here flag with signature fields in an unsigned electronic document so that a signer user can easily identify where a signature or other information is required to be entered in the document. In an embodiment the document execution server obtains flag data from the document flag server and associates a visual flag in a location on the unsigned electronic document with the unsigned electronic document prior to sending the document to a signer user .

Additionally referring now to and returning now to the document execution server that server sends or otherwise makes available the unsigned electronic document with or without including an information summary indicator from the document summary server and or a flag from the document flag server to one or more signer users identified by the document sender . Once each target signer user completes all designated signature fields for that signer user the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into a partially signed electronic document . Once all target signer users have completed all designated signature fields the input is combined to generate a signed electronic document . The signed electronic document may be logged and stored in the document and authentication data storage device for future use.

The document execution server may send notifications to the document sender as well as other designated signer users indicating the progress of the signing activity. For example the notifications may identify signature fields in the electronic document still requiring entry of data by one or more of the signer users.

In some example embodiments and referring to a screenshot of an unsigned electronic document is presented with a graphical flag in the left margin of the screen displaying the document. In some of these embodiments the flag is a brightly colored tab that includes the text required to identify for the signer user that there is a signature field along the same visual line on the screen that requires the signer user to complete. In some embodiments the flags are a graphical equivalent of a sticky label which appear to stick out of or wrap around the edge of the document as an indicator to the signer user. In some embodiments and referring to a display of an unsigned electronic document having multiple signature fields is provided. The unsigned electronic document includes content displayable to a signer user as text graphics or a combination of text and graphics. The unsigned electronic document includes one or more signature fields into which data is entered by signer users at one or more locations on the pages of the electronic document using online signature entry pads shown in associated with each signature entry field as described in further detail below. The location type and number of signature fields per document are specified by the document sender to the document execution server . The document execution server associates the signature fields identified by the document sender and presents the unsigned electronic document including all signature fields to the respective signer users identified by the document sender . In some embodiments and referring to the right side of the progress in signing or otherwise completing the signature fields for a signer user is indicated by an information summary indicator which is shown in this as a thermometer type graphic. The example electronic document shown in is for a Chief Executive Officer signer user displaying a signature field .

In at least one example embodiment the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into an unsigned web ready document having the same information and signature fields as the original document. Unsigned web ready documents are ready for dynamic entry of information into the signature fields by one or more signer users . This web ready conversion of the original documents may be achieved using standard conversion software and algorithms readily available and known to those skilled in the relevant art. For example a Microsoft Word Document can be opened in the OpenOffice Application exported as a PDF and then using pdf2swf from SWFTOOLS.org exported in Flash format which readily is displayable in most generally commercially available web browsers. In at least one embodiment the unsigned electronic document is exported using similar tools into PNG files which are supported by commercially available web browsers and which technology is available in services such as DOCSTOC.com and SCRIBD.com.

After receiving the original unsigned electronic document and as applicable converting the document to an unsigned web ready document in an example embodiment the document execution server makes available via a network either the original unsigned electronic document or the unsigned web ready document to a signer user together with an online signature entry pad associated with each signature field in the unsigned electronic document . In an embodiment the document execution server makes the unsigned electronic document available to multiple signer users either simultaneously or serially depending on instructions from the document sender or other external predetermined parameters and input. In at least one example embodiment the document execution server delivers the unsigned electronic document or a link thereto via an application programming interface API for access by predetermined signer users. In another example embodiment document execution server delivers the unsigned web ready document or a link thereto via the API. Alternatively the link can access a document displayed on a web browser and the signer user observes an image of the document.

In at least one embodiment also as shown in the document summary server may send a scaffold document via email or other electronic transmission to one or more signer users . The same scaffold document is made available to multiple signer users either in a web ready format via email via a link through an API or using other electronic means as may be desirable for each signer user as is the case with any unsigned electronic document. For example in one embodiment a link to a scaffold electronic document is emailed by document summary server to one or more signer users where the link provides access to a webpage containing or otherwise providing access to a web ready document .

In response to receipt of the signature data from one or more of the signer users the document execution server generates a signed or otherwise filled in or completed electronic document corresponding to the unsigned electronic document and including the signature data.

In an embodiment the signed electronic document then is made available by the document execution server to all or a predetermined subset of the signer users and to the document sender for verification confirmation and other predetermined actions. In an embodiment the document execution server transmits the signed or otherwise completed electronic document in a locked form to a document and authentication data storage device .

In an embodiment the document summary server establishes a group index i for each of the m groups of information entry fields F . For purposes of this document we use the following definitions. With respect to signer users m number of users groups of user fields e.g. the number of participant signer users wherein 1

Individual fields are represented as Fis the field j for U Pis the page number on which Iappears Lis the actionable link to bring Fto the viewport for example if Fis offscreen to a signer user clicking a link Lwill bring Finto the middle of the user screen and make the field active for input by the signer user and Zis the visual indicator of next Ito be completed by the signer user. Thus 1

Upon receiving a scaffold document from a document sender the document summary server establishes a group index i for each of the m groups of information entry fields where 1 i m and establishes a subgroup index jfor the igroup of information entry fields Iof the respective m groups where 1 i m and where 1 j n wherein i and jfor the iuser have initial values equal to 1 for the scaffold electronic document and i and jhave maximum values equal to m and nrespectively for the scaffold electronic document. The document summary server makes available over the network a version of the scaffold document to one or more signer users . The scaffold document is displayable to each signer user to allow the signer user to identify the information entry fields . As used herein the term information entry field has the same meaning as signature field however the term information entry fields is preferred in reference to scaffold documents and the term signature fields is preferred in reference to any unsigned electronic document.

The flowchart of further illustrates an embodiment of the present method. As shown a document sender accesses the document execution server DES via a network such as the internet. The document sender then uploads the original electronic document to the document execution server. The document sender then indicates at the name and contact information of each signer user each entity that will receive a copy of either the unsigned electronic document and or the signed electronic document and any order in which the signature fields contained in the subject document are to be completed by the designated signer users. The document sender also indicates at this time the locations of signature fields within the unsigned electronic document together with instructions regarding which signer user is required to complete which corresponding signature field. With multiple signer users different signer users generally are required to complete different signature fields as well as different signature field types. For example in a real estate transaction the buyer may be required to provide a signature a personal address and a date whereas an escrow agent may be required to provide a signature a license number and financial information.

As shown in in an embodiment the document execution server prepares a web ready version of the original document. The document execution server also may generate thumbnail displays flags or other indicia associated with the various signature fields for easier review by the signer user and a more expedient signer user completion of the designated signature fields.

Turning to once the document execution server receives the original document together with the additional document information from the document sender the document execution server follows the signing order instructions sent by the document sender. For each designated signer user the document execution server in effect prepares an unsigned electronic document associated with the original document and a signature entry pad for each signature field. All such information regarding the signer user and instructions related to the document are collectively referred to the envelope of the electronic document. Additional envelope information may include data associated with the identity of the signer user such as email address IP address SMS address facsimile number or other electronic forms of address or identification. This envelope is integrally associated with the original document and as such remains part of the associated electronic and web ready versions of the same document as such are generated by the document executive server.

In at least one embodiment an API user such as another internet based device is the document sender which submits the original document and the associated signer user copied users signing order signature field locations and signature field authorizations to the document execution server. In an embodiment the API user receives delivery of the unsigned web ready documents on behalf of the designated signer users.

Once the unsigned electronic document is prepared the document execution server delivers an internet link code or embedded HTML via a network to the designated signer users. The network includes SMS email facsimile and other available technologies for distributing data. At a proximal time the document execution server in effect transmits the unsigned electronic document to the signer users. The document execution server may deliver updates of the event to the document sender and other designated entities to be copied on such transmission. In this manner the document sender can begin to track the progress of the document as the designated signer users complete the signature events.

Once the link code embedded HTML or other contact is made by the document execution server to a signer user that signer user then accesses the unsigned electronic document by following such link returning to the website interface for the document execution server interacts with the embedded HTML code from the API user or otherwise opens the unsigned electronic document. The document execution server locates the unsigned electronic document together with its associated envelope information and presents the same to each signer user.

As continued in the signer user views the unsigned electronic document and enters the information requested in each of the signer user s respective signature fields. Information is entered into the signature field by the dynamic online signature entry pad associated with each signature field. Signature entry pads are dynamic fields that appear on the GUI to facilitate signer user entry of information required for the associated signature field. Such information may be entered using a touch pad mouse touch screen voice entry and other technologies generally commercially available.

Upon receipt of the entered information the document execution server creates a graphical representation of the signature field input received from the signer user. The document execution server then or at desired times in effect combines the graphical representations with the unsigned electronic document to generate a signed electronic document to define a signed event. In parallel with receiving the signature field input from the signer users and with generating each signed electronic document the document execution server delivers updates on the progress of the signing events to those entities identified as cc or copied entities as well as to the document sender. Once all signers have completed signing the document all graphical representations of all signature field input received from all signers is combined into a single signed document.

In some embodiments and as shown in the document execution server then delivers a copy of the signed electronic document to each of the designated or selected ones of the signer users associated with that document. In an embodiment the document execution server optionally locks and stores a copy of the signed electronic document or may send a copy to a document and authentication data storage device for storage. In an embodiment the document execution server generates authentication data associated with the signed electronic document. Such authentication data may be data incorporated into the signed electronic document it may be part of the document envelope or may be some additional data used only for authentication purposes.

In at least one embodiment of the present method in which a document summary server is used and referring to once the document summary server receives a scaffold electronic document and m groups of information entry fields the scaffold and fields Fthen are displayed to a user U. The display step includes displaying a visual representation of steps to go representing F C and I . Such visual representation may be permanent dynamic representations such as text appearing at the top or side of the screens or user selective representations such as text appearing in pull down menus on the screen. In at least one embodiment such visual representations may be in the form of dynamic graphical displays such as a thermometer type graphic a numerical button or other graphic countdown display color displays such as red buttons representing incomplete information entry fields and green buttons representing completed information entry fields. On receipt of data for F i.e. the jfield for the iuser the user receives an updated display with the steps to go indicator iteratively adjusted to reflect the number of information entry fields remaining to be completed and or the number of information entry fields completed.

An example of an embodiment of the type described in the preceding paragraph updates progress indicators i.e. indicators showing a user Uhow many fields remain to be filled in are updated in real time. In this example real time means the progress indicators comprise or consist of front end code wherein field data filled in by user Uis not transmitted to a server immediately but rather is stored temporarily in a data store local to and accessible by the browser i.e. the front end used by user U and the progress indicators update in accordance with the temporarily stored data. After all required data fields are filled and the user Uclicks on a submit button in the browser the browser submits all of the data field data from the local store to the server at once. In such embodiments the phrase on receipt of data in step refers to the receipt of data by the browser and the update of the steps to go indicator requires only the front end code running in the user s browser.

In at least one embodiment the flags are successively located in the unsigned electronic document with increasing index i or are located in the unsigned electronic document independent of the index i. In an embodiment the flags are located in the document based on an order predetermined by a document sender or document envelope information provided by the document sender to the document execution server. In at least one embodiment the flags are located in the document based on an order determined by a signer user or a third party.

In at least one embodiment the flags for Uand Umay all appear in the same document where the flags associated with Uare a different color or shape than the flags associated with U. In at least one embodiment the flags for Uand Umay be the same color but the flags may be specific icons associated with the respective signer users.

In an embodiment having a document with multiple signature fields the flags may be dynamic such that they move from signature field to signature field as the signer user completes each field. In another embodiment a page with multiple signature fields may include several flags indicating simultaneously all signature fields on the page. Then when a signer user completes a signature field the associated flag disappears all flags disappear once all signature fields in the unsigned electronic document are completed by the signer user . In a scaffold document the flags may be different graphical colors or shapes to indicate different information entry fields . For example flags associated with information entry fields requiring name data graphically appear as blue flags flags associated with information entry fields requiring date data graphically appear as green flags and the like.

In at least one example embodiment of the present method the scaffold document is one selected from predetermined template documents created by third party entities or the administrator of the present method and stored in the document execution server for use by customer document senders via API. In such an embodiment as shown in a document sender or an application used by a document sender requests a list of template electronic documents. Such template documents have predetermined signature fields which are not generally changed or changeable by the document sender. An example of such an embodiment would be form lease agreements or other standard forms. In another example embodiment of the present invention template documents are sent via a web user interface UI as opposed to an application programming interface API . In yet another example embodiment template documents can be sent either via a web user interface UI or by an application programming interface API .

Upon receiving the request the document execution server delivers via API or via UI a list of available templates to the sender user. The sender user application selects a template. Upon receipt of the sender user template choice the document execution server performs document package pre process . This pre process generates a document ID associated with the template. It is possible that many document ID s are associated with each template and each unique document having an assigned unique document ID likely will have a unique envelope. The API then delivers the merge fields and roles associated with the envelope for the designated template. The sender user application provides merge data information relating to the signer users and other information and data required for the designated template. In this example the template is the unsigned electronic document identified and discussed above. The document execution server processes the unsigned template document in a manner similar to that described above and sends links via email to each designated signer user. Each designated signer user provides the information required for each signature field. For signature fields designated as optional to one or more signer users by the sender user the information may be left blank by the associated signer user s . Upon receipt of all required signature field data and whatever optional signature field data that may be entered such data is incorporated into an unsigned template document and the document execution server locks the resulting signed electronic document as described above in further detail.

At that point the signed electronic document may be stored in a document and authentication data storage device and copies of the signed electronic document sent at and to the document sender at and others as designated by the document sender at

In some embodiments sender users select a template unsigned electronic document from a website from the user s own library or from secondary sources. In at least one embodiment the step of processing the document is followed by an API or UI delivery of embedded signing codes. In at least one embodiment all communications between the document sender and the document execution server or between the document execution server and one or more of the designated signer users is via email facsimile SMS and other electronic communications methods generally available. As used herein an embedded signing code is a code that is inserted into the HTML code of an existing third party webpage to display a document signing event e.g. in an iFrame inside the third party webpage. This type of code may be similar to but not necessarily the same as an embed code provided by YouTube .

In at least one embodiment as shown in the document execution server prior to delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modifies the unsigned electronic document to include flag data to successively identify to each respective signer user the signature fields in that unsigned electronic document which required data entry. This flag data is removed in one example embodiment when the document execution server combines the unsigned document and graphical representations of signature field data to create the signed electronic document.

In at least one embodiment as shown in the document execution server prior to or contemporaneous with delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modifies the unsigned electronic document to include summary data represented by an information summary indicator associated with the document to assist signer users identify the locations of signature fields in the electronic document. Such information summary indicator is presented in a side menu to the document appears visually on the same page as a signature field or is presented anywhere on the visual periphery of document pages. The information summary indicator includes such indicators as the total number of signature fields in the subject document the number of signature fields that have been completed the number of signature fields remaining to be completed or any combination of such data. In at least one embodiment the information summary indicator is presented graphically as a bar as buttons as text as color indicators e.g. red for incomplete signature fields green for completed signature fields and the like. In an embodiment the information summary indicator is static by presenting location identification data e.g. page paragraph information associated with each signature field or by presenting the total number of signature fields contained in the subject document. In at least one embodiment the information summary indicator is dynamic changing as the signer user completes each signature field. In some embodiments information summary indicator is superimposed on the unsigned electronic document itself. For example an entire page of a document may be color tinted to indicate the density of fields or a colored vertical bar is imposed on one side of a page e.g. the right side.

Turning now to this series of screen shots shows an exemplary embodiment of the present system and method. shows a start up home screen for a website using the present system and method. Note that the sender user is prompted to Choose a Document name the People Involved aka signer users and enter a document Description. In the sender user viewing this screen selects an NDA document from a selection of available template documents. The document sender may also import a self generated document or select a document from another source as available.

In yet other embodiments the uploaded document is parsed and a determination made of the number of signature locations and form fields or that the uploaded PDF had already indicated signature locations and form fields. In the latter instance the counter at one side of the screen may be presented in accordance with the determination.

Although these screen shots show one implementation of the present method and system there are many variations on the specific systems used software programs and languages used and layout and design used in implementing the present method and system within the scope of the claims.

The present methods and system can be practiced in a number of variations including variations on workflow. In an embodiment some information entry fields are identified as being required to be completed whereas other fields are optional. In an embodiment the workflow order is adjusted in accordance with the type of document to be completed the number and nature of the signer users involved and other variations based on the preferences set by the document sender . In one such embodiment the document sender is a set workflow order requiring one signer user to complete one or more information entry fields before certain other identified signer users. The document summary server may include workflow order restrictions for an unsigned electronic document requiring iterative serial actions. For example a document sender may instruct that signer user Ucomplete information entry field F followed by the completion by signer user Uof information entry field F before signer user Ucompletes information entry field F and so forth until all information entry fields are complete.

In a more simplified embodiment the document summary server assigns a workflow order that requires a first signer user Ucomplete all information entry fields F prior to the document being sent to another signer user U. In another embodiment the document summary server requires that each signer user complete the information entry fields in a predetermined order for example for signer user U F THEN F and the like.

At least one embodiment includes various forms of exclusivity. For example information entry fields may be shared by one or more signer user such that either signer user may complete one or more designated information entry fields. This may be done on a per field basis or for all fields in an entire document. In another embodiment information entry fields are shared by one or more signer users such that each signer user individually completes a designated information entry field and the information provided by each such signer user is concatenated to complete a single information entry field.

At least one embodiment of the present apparatus and method includes variations on graphical updating of the summary data represented by an information summary indicator . Also in at least one embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is updated immediately to the user U. Furthermore in at least one embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is NOT updated immediately to the user U. In at least one embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is updated immediately for future users i.e. U.

In at least one embodiment of the present system and method one or more Fhave default values that cannot be modified by a sender user. For example Date information entry fields automatically fill with the current date. In at least one embodiment at least one of the information entry fields have default values that can be modified by all or certain identified signer users. In at least one embodiment some information entry fields may be filled using a merge function and are thus denominated as merge fields. These embodiments have merge fields that are filled in by the document sender before sending rather than the signer user. The data in the merge fields in these embodiments is merged into the document before the signer user sees it and thus may be viewed as the sender pre filling these fields before sending the document. In at least one embodiment some multiple Fare completed by information input only one time by the signer user for example a single signature event then is automatically input simultaneously into potentially many Fidentified either by a signer user or the document sender.

Further at least one embodiment includes displaying to each signer user different types and amounts of information relating to a scaffold document . For example the screen display of an unsigned electronic document includes the total number information entry fields F and the number of complete information entry fields C but not the total number of incomplete information entry fields for a specified document. In at least one embodiment the screen display of an unsigned electronic document includes the total number information entry fields F and the number of incomplete information entry fields I but not the total number of complete information entry fields C for a specified document.

In at least one embodiment the screen displays the page numbers Pon which the next incomplete information entry field Iappears.

In at least one embodiment the display for a display screen on which the scaffold document or the unsigned electronic document appear includes a conventional moveable window that is slidable over the display of the unsigned electronic document to make available for viewing only that portion of the document underlying the region of the window. At least one embodiment includes an actionable link Lthat is displayed to bring the next information entry field to the viewport. In at least one embodiment an actionable link Lis displayed for the incomplete required information entry fields I. In at least one embodiment a visual indicator of the next incomplete required information entry fields Zis displayed for incomplete required information entry fields I. In at least one embodiment the visual indicator of the next incomplete required information entry field Zis displayed for I and includes an actionable link to bring the target information entry field into the viewport for example the visual indicator is an arrow on one side of the display screen which arrow is clickable.

In addition at least one embodiment includes various ways of displaying to one or more signer user what information is entered by one or more of the other signer users. For example the information summary indicator may display to one signer user which information entry fields are completed by the other signer user and which remain incomplete. In this embodiment for example the completed information entry field by one user Cappears as a green box on the unsigned electronic document displayed to a second signer user whereas an incomplete information entry field by one user Iis displayed as a red box on the unsigned electronic document displayed to the second user.

The various methods described above may be embodied in and fully automated by software code modules in some cases for example front end browser code running in a browser executed by one or more general purpose computers tablet computers and or special purpose computers. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer storage device or devices hard disk storage solid state RAM and the like . The steps may be implemented using any type of computer storage device or devices and using any type or types of data repositories relational databases flat files caches and the like to store any data. The flow of data through a network as well as the division and separation of data controlled access to the data by the various parties involved and verification of data over a distributed and or public or private network are considered distinguishing features of the present invention. However these features are not necessarily present in whole or in part in every embodiment nor are they considered the only distinguishing features.

Some embodiments of the present invention use an API to use a biometric device on a cell phone to take a fingerprint or other personally identifiable essentially non changeable biometric data of a user and then without actually accessing the private information so obtained in the application itself compare it to the fingerprint that unlocked the phone. Such comparison may be performed either via an API or through the phone service provider or phone manufacturer. This comparison provides a greater level of assurance that a person signing a document is the same person who unlocked the cell phone rather than an imposter who simply has access to the singer s email account or other web account.

Note that in some embodiments of the method it is not required that an application app running on a cell phone receive any information from the fingerprint reader itself. Some of these embodiments require only that there be a fingerprint storage and comparison function in the phone itself that can be invoked by an API to trigger the taking of another fingerprint. Some of the embodiments require only storage of the user s fingerprint at the phone service provider s server e.g. either the phone company s or the phone manufacturer s server and a comparison function that is performed at that server to ensure that the person using the app is the same as the one to whom the phone is registered. Of course these embodiments are not mutually exclusive of one another some methods provide a choice between these two different forms of authentication which choice may not necessarily be that of a signer user and some methods use both forms of authentication.

Thus if a user is being coerced to login to a second device this fact can be inferred from the presence of two currently valid authentications being held at document execution server . In this case if the signer user tries to sign or complete a document that attempt can be detected and rejected until some other even occurs. Examples of the types of events that are used in the various embodiments include one or more of a forced logout at one of the two devices that are logged in a notification message being sent to either device or both devices requesting that the signer user log out and log back in a rejection of the login at the second device and a requirement for manual intervention by the signature and authentication escrow agent to reset the document execution server to allow future logins.

Thus in some embodiments of the present invention and referring to a mobile phone user unlocks his or her mobile phone using a fingerprint sensor . Without loss of generality the term mobile phone encompasses feature phones smart phones and tablet computers for example . The data from fingerprint sensor is sent to an authentication server for mobile network which here refers to the wireless Internet and or a mobile phone service supplier s own wireless network where it is compared to baseline data for a mobile phone user registered to the phone manufacturer or phone user. If the fingerprint data matches that of a known user for the particular mobile phone or device a signal is sent from authentication server to mobile phone to unlock it and make its features and apps or at least a subset thereof available. In some embodiments mobile phone also includes a camera . Also in some embodiments authentication may require entry of a password or other indicia of ownership on a touchscreen . For some mobile phones or other devices touchscreen is replaced or supplemented by a separate display screen and a separate keyboard not shown in the figures . In operation document execution server emails or otherwise sends a link to a web ready document or an unsigned and or partially finished document over the mobile network to mobile phone . There signer user fills in executes and sends back the document as a finished document or a partially finished document with additional authentication data via the mobile network back to document execution server .

In some embodiments of the present invention and referring to mobile phone or another similar device such as a table computer comprises a touchscreen display or equivalently a display and one or more manual input devices such as a physical keyboard a mouse and or a stylus and tablet not shown separately in . Mobile phone also comprises another biometric device such as a fingerprint reader and optionally a camera . Mobile phone also comprises a processor that receives and processes data from and to touchscreen from fingerprint reader and camera and or the similar or equivalent devices mentioned above. For the sake of brevity and without loss of generality these equivalent devices will no longer be included in the description that follows. Processor may also be communicatively coupled to a non transient memory for storage of programs and or data. Processor is also communicatively coupled to send and receive data from network . An app or a web browser is used to request a link to a web ready document from document execution server . When the link is received it can be followed by the app or web browser to display the web ready document on mobile phone display screen .

A useful feature of some embodiments of the invention is the avoidance of the possibility that an imposter with access to an email account becoming qualified on that basis alone to sign or in some cases merely accessing a web ready document . Thus in some embodiments when web ready document is requested by mobile phone via the app or web browser document execution server may or may not allow signer user at mobile phone to receive and or sign it depending upon how mobile phone was accessed. Ordinarily an IP address of mobile phone can be obtained but this address can vary because of dynamic IP address allocation and or movement of mobile phone . Thus one cannot usually tell from an IP address what any given device is nor confirm whose device it is. One may be able to determine a browser type but even when information as to the browser type is made available it can be spoofed.

But many mobile phones are already provided by their manufacturer with a built in biometric hardware identification device. Information from one of these devices can either determine or assist in determining the actual identity of a signer user that is trying to access a document or at least help determine anonymously whether the signer user is authorized to access and or sign the document. Information obtained from the biometric device can also be combined with detecting the browser getting a biometric signature access to a particular email account etc. for even greater security. Thus in some embodiments of the present invention one or more authentication factors are provided by a mobile phone itself. Identity protection may be provided by obtaining confirmation of authentication from an authentication server for the mobile network and or from a phone manufacture application server thereby protecting signer user from having sensitive data stored at the document execution server . This authentication can be accomplished without adding additional devices or dongles to mobile phone .

In this description and in the claims unless otherwise explicitly stated the term document execution server refers to a server operated by a document escrow service provider. An application server for a mobile network and or a manufacturer s application server are operated by entities other than the document escrow service provider unless otherwise explicitly stated. An app provider may be the document escrow service provider or a completely different party altogether operating with the permission of the document escrow servicer provider.

In some embodiments an additional layer of security is added by allowing or requiring a signer user take one or more pictures of himself. For example some embodiments of the present invention provide a face recognition program that runs at or in conjunction with escrow provider s document execution server . An audit log is also provided in some embodiments. Some of these embodiments can be used with mobile phones that do not have fingerprint readers or biometric sensors other than one or more cameras. These embodiments include those that can be used with or without the cooperation of the carrier or phone manufacturer.

In some embodiments of the present invention information reported back from a browser or from an app includes information from which what if any types of biometric ID may be available on the accessing mobile phone .

Almost all mobile phones today have a camera and people seem generally less adverse to sharing their pictures than other personal information such as fingerprints. Any reluctance by the user to provide biometric authentication information may be overcome in embodiments of the present invention that provide one or more different views of a signer user s face to the escrow provider. Using this type of authentication may also circumvent a lack of cooperation of a phone carrier or manufacturer to provide further biometric authentication information.

Thus in some embodiments and referring to an authentication server for a mobile network and or for a manufacturer s application server comprises a connection to and from a mobile network . Data passing to and from server is analyzed by processor which operates cooperatively with non transient memory . Processor also has access to a private secure fingerprint characteristic data store which is used by processor to determine whether to allow a mobile phone to access network e.g. by shutting down mobile phone or at least its Internet or mobile data connection . Processor and data store are also used to re authenticate signer users for purposes of the present invention. In some of these embodiments processor is responsive to requests received from document execution server over mobile network to query fingerprint reader on a mobile phone and to send the results of the authentication to document execution server instead of or possibly in addition to mobile phone . In another embodiment and referring now to a photographic face recognition is provided by document execution server . In some of these embodiments one or more pictures of signer user are taken by camera in mobile phone . Instructions may be given to signer user as to which pictures to take and how to hold the mobile phone so that camera gets the correct views that are needed. Photographic data is received from mobile phone via network . Processor is responsive to this data with the aid of non transient memory to access a private secure photographic characteristic data store . The photographic data is analyzed with the use of data store to determine whether signer user is authorized to access and or sign a document using document execution server .

The data store may also comprise a third party store i.e. a social medium such as Facebook Instagram and the like.

It will be understood that facial recognition data is used herein only as an example of the type of photographic data that can be biometrically analyzed. For example instead of or in addition to photographic facial data some embodiments of the present invention use photographs of the back of the hand or of the palm of the hand for analysis.

Some embodiments of the invention capture baseline data that is compared or that already has been compared to biometric or other data about the signer user . This comparison and or the baseline data itself are stored with the document at document execution server to serve as a heightened indication of the validity of the authentication of the user.

In some embodiments and referring now a module is entered at step . Module is either executed by specialized hardware or by using the apparatuses illustrated in . Depending upon the embodiment a signer user logs into a mobile phone at step . A biometric sensor such as fingerprint reader is activated to login at step . Mobile phone sends the information via mobile network from the biometric sensor to the authentication server for the mobile network and or for the manufacturer which determines whether to let the signer user access the mobile network via mobile phone . Thus mobile phone or other mobile device is logged into mobile network at step .

After being logged in and permitted to access mobile network signer user opens a signature application that executes for example using processor and non transient memory of mobile phone at step . At step the biometric sensor is then activated again this time under control of the signature application and at step the biometric data is sent to the same authentication server that permits the mobile phone to log in. It should be noted that unless explicitly stated the term activated again refers to readying the sensor and or associated communication links out of the sensor so that sensor data is able to again be both read and used. The term activated again does not necessarily imply that the sensor prior to being activated again is literally turned off or has power removed from it.

It should be noted that the activation step is optional to the extent that it may be continuously on or may be activated on demand 

Examples of signature applications contemplated herein include web browsers as well as particular apps installed on mobile phones created for the purpose of cooperating with biometric sensors for biometric verification.

At step an indication of whether the biometric data matches the telephone login is sent from the same authentication server that permits the mobile phone to log in to the document execution server . At step document execution server sends a signal to mobile phone indicating whether mobile phone has permission based upon the biometric data sent at step to access and or sign a web ready document .

If at step mobile phone receives such permission the mobile phone at step collects document data so that it can access and or have signer user sign a web ready document . Web ready document may be either a web ready document requested by the phone at a time prior to procedure entry step or one requested during the execution of procedure . In case a signature is being supplied by signer user via mobile phone the filled in or finished document is sent to document execution server and the procedure exits at step to be restarted at step as necessary.

If at step mobile phone does not receive permission from document execution server procedure exits at step without uploading a finished document to document execution server . However in some embodiments a web ready document may be sent to mobile phone for read only purposes depending upon the permission level placed on the web ready document by its creator or allowed by the operator of document execution server .

In some embodiments and referring now a module is entered at step . Module is either executed by specialized hardware or by using the apparatuses illustrated in depending upon the embodiment a signer user logs into a mobile phone at step . A biometric sensor such as fingerprint reader is activated to login at step . Mobile phone sends the information from the biometric sensor to the authentication server for the mobile network and or for the manufacturer which determines whether to let the signer user access the mobile network via mobile phone . After being logged in and permitted to access mobile network signer user opens a signature application that executes for example using processor and non transient memory of mobile phone at step . At step the biometric sensor is then activated again this time under control of the signature application and used to collect e.g. fingerprint data from a signer user .

In the embodiment of pre recorded biometric data from one or more authorized signer users is used to determine whether a signer user is permitted to access and or sign a web ready document . Thus at step biometric data collected at step is compared with this pre recorded biometric data. This comparison is done in some embodiments by transmitting from mobile phone both the pre recorded biometric data and the biometric data collected at step to document execution server . Mobile phone then receives an indication of a match from document execution server . In some embodiments authentication server is used in this step instead of document execution server and in some embodiments mobile phone is itself used instead of either authentication server and document execution server . In the latter embodiments in particular it can be advantageous to store the pre recorded biometric data at mobile phone in a memory that is not easily changed by someone using mobile phone . For example the pre recorded biometric data could be burned into a ROM read only memory not separately shown in the Figures but part of non transient memory .

At step a match may be indicated either by mobile phone itself or document execution server or authentication server between the biometric data obtained at step and the pre recorded biometric data mobile phone . If so at step mobile phone collects document data so that it can access and or have signer user sign a web ready document . Web ready document may be either a web ready document requested by the phone at a time prior to procedure entry step or one requested during the execution of procedure . In case a signature is being supplied by signer user via mobile phone the filled in or finished document is sent to document execution server and the procedure exits at step to be restarted at step as necessary.

If at step a match is not indicated to mobile phone procedure exits at step without uploading a finished document to document execution server and the procedure is restarted at step as necessary. In some embodiments a web ready document may be sent to mobile phone for read only purposes depending upon the permission level placed on the web ready document by its creator or allowed by the operator of document execution server .

In some embodiments and referring to procedure of a module is entered at step . Module is either executed by specialized hardware or by using the apparatuses illustrated in . Depending upon the embodiment a signer user logs into a mobile phone at step . A biometric sensor such as fingerprint reader is activated to login at step . Mobile phone sends the information from the biometric sensor to the authentication server for the mobile network and or for the manufacturer which determines whether to let the signer user access the mobile network via mobile phone . After being logged in and permitted to access mobile network signer user opens a signature application that executes for example using processor and non transient memory of mobile phone at step . At step a camera is activated on mobile phone under control of the signature application and used to collect at least one photograph of signer user . The photograph may be a picture of a hand or a view of a face for example or a combination of such pictures. Data representing this picture or these pictures is sent to document execution server for authentication. At step mobile phone receives an indication of user verification of signer user from document execution server .

At step if the verification indicates a match then at step mobile phone collects document data so that it can access and or have signer user sign a web ready document . Web ready document may be either a web ready document requested by the phone at a time prior to procedure entry step or one requested during the execution of procedure . In case a signature is being supplied by signer user via mobile phone the filled in or finished document is sent to document execution server and the procedure exits at step to be restarted at step as necessary.

If at step a match is not indicated to mobile phone procedure exits at step without uploading a finished document to document execution server . The procedure is restarted at step as necessary. In some embodiments a web ready document may be sent to mobile phone for read only purposes depending upon the permission level placed on the web ready document by its creator or allowed by the operator of document execution server .

The present invention also contemplates the signer user taking a picture of himself or herself and having its authenticity verified against a third party database prior to permitting the user signer to actually sign the document. The present invention also contemplates that even though the biometrics match to authenticate the signer user that execution of the document is still prohibited by the web browser or application for other reasons i.e. identity theft or the like.

While the invention has been described in terms of various specific embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with various modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention. Also embodiments which do not provide all of the benefits and features set forth herein are also considered within the scope of this invention even though they include only some but not necessarily all of the features and methods described herein and are not specifically described herein. More particularly various combinations of features described herein are all contemplated as being possible unless otherwise explicitly excluded or the features are physically impossible to combine. Upon gaining an understanding of the present invention by reference to this disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art could select subsets and supersets of features disclosed herein to make additional embodiments that would thus be considered to be embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

