---

title: Real-time learning of hashtag-to-TV program relationships
abstract: Disclosed is a system, method, and computer program product for relating a metadata tag to a television program identifier and associating a hashtag with metadata associated with the television program. A mapping server receives a request that includes a metadata tag (e.g., a hashtag) for a social object, such as a comment or a post to a social network. The mapping server generates a graph to determine a set of television program identifiers likely associated with the metadata tag. Furthermore, the mapping server compresses graph data over time to reduce the time needed to perform a query to the graph.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420355&OS=09420355&RS=09420355
owner: Peel Technologies, Inc.
number: 09420355
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141107
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 954 580 filed Mar. 17 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of sharing media content online and more specifically to relating media content to social objects on a social networking system.

Internet users increasingly share media content online Users share media by posting links to images videos and articles on websites. For example a user may upload and share a video on a social networking website. Other social network users may interact with the shared video expanding the shared video s audience.

However some forms of media content cannot be posted online. Television programs for example are conventionally shown on broadcast television and cannot be linked to online. Users may wish to share information in a post about a television program on a social network but cannot easily incorporate the information about the television program into the post.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One embodiment of a system and method for relating a metadata tag to a television program associates a topic identifier or metadata tag e.g. a hashtag a URL or an identifier with metadata associated with the television program. Metadata tags are associated with social objects. A social object is a posting of content uploaded to the social network typically provided for display to one or more social network members. Examples of social objects include postings posts comments pictures events videos hyperlinks messages or any other kind of content shared on the social network. The social objects are displayed on a webpage of the social networking website. In some embodiments the social objects are displayed in a newsfeed profile page or message on the social networking site. A mapping server receives social object data. The social object data lists a set of hashtags or other social objects stored on the social networking system. The mapping server receives electronic program guide EPG data which includes information associated with a television program. The information may be a set of predetermined hashtags associated with the television program a timestamp associated with the television program or a television program identifier for the television program. The mapping server generates a graphical data structure or graph of the EPG data and the social object data. The graph includes nodes and edges between the nodes. Each node represents a metadata tag or a television program identifier. Each edge connects a node representing a metadata tag with a node representing another metadata tag or a television program identifier.

The mapping server receives a request for a television program identifier from the social networking system. The request is to identify a set of television program identifiers associated with the hashtag in the social object. The request may be in response to a hashtag or a social object added to the social networking system. The mapping server determines the set of television program identifiers associated with the hashtag in the request by traversing the graph constructed by the mapping server. The mapping server ranks the set of televisions program identifiers associated with the hashtag based on the number of connections between the hashtag and the television program identifier. Additionally or alternatively the mapping server ranks the set of television program identifiers by the number of nodes between the hashtag and the television program identifier. The mapping server provides one or more television program identifiers from the set of television programs to the social networking system.

In other embodiments of a system method and computer readable storage medium for relating a social object to a television program a mapping server generates and maintains a graph based on electronic program guide data and social object data. The mapping server compresses a plurality of relationships along an edge into a single relationship on the edge. The multiple relationships may share a common timestamp or may have originated within a similar timeframe. Compressing the multiple relationships into a single relationship allows the mapping server to reduce or prune the size of the graph without losing relationship information. Furthermore reducing the size of the graph reduces the time needed to execute a query to the graph and reduces concurrency issues.

The client devices are one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment the client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. Alternatively the client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone a tablet or another suitable computing device. The client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment the client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example the client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system . In another embodiment the client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as APPLE IOS or GOOGLE ANDROID .

The social networking system SNS operates a social network. The SNS includes social object data which describes one or more social objects on the SNS . Social objects represent content on the social network. Examples of a social object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a check in event a message or any other type of content. In one embodiment the social object includes a metadata tag such as a hashtag an identifier or a hyperlink. The social object data further includes one or more relationship entries. The relationship entry indicates a relationship that connects two social objects. The relationship entry identifies two social objects that the relationship connects a timeframe that indicates when the relationship was created and a weight that indicates the number of times the relationship has been made.

The EPG server is a server storing electronic program guide data. The EPG data includes information associated with one or more television programs. In the context of this application the television program may be a broadcast TV show a movie a video clip a video stream or any other form of video media. The information may be a set of predetermined hashtags associated with the television program a timestamp associated with the television program or a television program identifier for the television program. The EPG data may be associated with a specific location or television service provider. Television service providers include broadcast and satellite television service providers. In other embodiments the EPG data may be associated with one or more video streaming websites.

The social object module receives and processes social object data. The social object data may be received from the social networking system or from the one or more client devices . The social object data comprises information about one or more social objects. Social objects represent content on the social network. Examples of a social object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a check in event or any other type of content. The social object includes one or more metadata tags such as hashtags identifiers or other forms of metadata tags.

The EPG module receives and processes EPG data. The EPG data is received from the EPG server . The EPG data includes information about one or more television programs showing on channels associated with the EPG server . The EPG data may include a set of predetermined hashtags associated with the television program a timestamp associated with the television program and television program identifier for the television program.

The graph generator generates a graph data structure herein referred to as a graph. The graph is embodied as a graph data structure but may be any form of data structure including but not limited to a hash table an array an object or any other conventional data structure. The graph generator generates the graph using EPG data and social object data such as a metadata tag. The graph is comprised of nodes and edges between the nodes. Each node represents a metadata tag or a television program identifier. Each edge represents a relationship associating a metadata tag with either another metadata tag or a television program identifier. These relationships indicate that a set of metadata tags or television program identifiers are related by an edge. An edge exists between two metadata tags if the tags are both included in a social object. For example an edge can exist between two nodes representing hashtags swaggg and tbt if both hashtags are included in the same social network posting. Each edge has a weight that indicates the magnitude of the relationship. For example the weight can indicate the number of times two metadata tags have been related over a time period or the number of times the two metadata tags have been included in the same posting.

The graph traversal module receives a query for a television program identifier associated with a metadata tag or a social object. The query includes information identifying the metadata tag or identifying a social object that includes a metadata tag. The query is received in response to a social object or metadata tag being added or otherwise modified on the social networking system . For example the query may be received in response to a social networking user adding a hashtag to the social networking system . The graph traversal module selects a set of television program identifiers associated with the metadata tag included in the social object by traversing the graph generated by the graph generator . The graph is traversed along edges connecting the node representing the metadata tag in the queried social object to one or more television program identifiers.

In one embodiment the graph traversal module uses a breadth first search to traverse the graph. The breadth first search allows the graph traversal module to determine the shortest distance between the metadata tag identified by the query and a television program identifier. In some embodiments the graph traversal module may additionally take into account the timeframe that the edge was created. For example the breadth first search may only traverse edges that were created within the last 24 hours. This enables the graph traversal module to only traverse the most recently posted hashtag relationships. In some embodiments the graph traversal module only traverses edges with a minimum weight. Other embodiments of the graph traversal module use depth first searches exhaustive searches or any other apparent search methods. The graph traversal module selects a set of television program identifiers connected on the graph to the metadata tag identified by the query.

The ranking module ranks the set of television program identifiers selected by the graph traversal module . The ranking module ranks the set of television program identifiers by distance and prominence. The distance of a television program identifier is determined by the number of layers the graph traversal module traverses starting from the node associated with the queried metadata tag before reaching a node associated with the television program identifier. In some embodiments the number of layers is equal to the number of edges between the metadata tag and the television program identifier. The prominence is determined by the number of weight of an edge or edges between the node associated with the queried metadata tag and the node associated with the television program identifier. In some embodiments the weight of the edge decreases over time making new hashtag relationships more prominent. Each television program identifier in the set of television program identifiers is assigned a distance value and prominence value. The television program identifiers are ranked based on the distance values or prominence values.

The television program selection module selects a subset comprising one or more of the ranked television program identifiers. The subset selected by the television program selection module may include only the highest ranked television program identifier the top three television program identifiers or any number of the ranked television program identifiers. In some embodiments each television program identifier in the subset is below a minimum threshold distance value e.g. within 3 degrees of separation from the social object or exceeds a threshold prominence value e.g. each edge between the social object and television program identifier has a minimum weight . The television program selection module provides the selected subset to the social networking system .

The graph compression module compresses data on the graph constructed by the graph generator . The graph compression module compresses data on the graph by reducing the number of relationship entries i.e. edges . The number of relationship entries in the graph is reduced by compressing a plurality of relationship entries between social objects and or television program identifiers into a single relationship entry in the graph. In other words the graph compression module compresses a plurality of relationships each associated with a weight into a single relationship with a different weight. The graph compression module groups the plurality of relationship entries by the timestamp associated with each relationship entry. In one example each relationship entry in the plurality of compressed relationship entries is associated with a timestamp within the same timeframe. The graph compression module generates a compressed relationship entry that accounts for each of the plurality of relationship entries. Compressing the multiple relationship entries into a single relationship entry allows the graph compression module to reduce or prune the size of the graph without losing relationship information. Furthermore reducing the size of the graph reduces the time needed to execute a query to the graph and reduces concurrency issues.

The mapping server communicates with client devices social networking system and the EPG server through the network interface . The network interface allows the mapping server to access the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G Long Term Evolution LTE code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

The mapping server includes a graph query module . The graph query module receives a query from the client device connected to the mapping server . In some embodiments the query is generated by an application on the client device such as a social networking application on the device. In other embodiments the query can be from another server connected to the mapping server such as the social networking system . For example the social networking system can generate a query to the mapping server to determine whether a post or other social object should be presented for display to the user. The query is for a list of television program identifiers associated with a metadata tag included in a social object. The graph query module interfaces with the graph traversal module to run the query. The graph query module sends the results of the query e.g. the subset of ranked television identifiers to the entity that queried the mapping server .

The mapping server receives social object data. The social object data includes a set of metadata tags hashtags . The mapping server may receive the social object data from the social networking system or from a client device configured to access the social networking system .

The mapping server receives EPG data. The EPG data includes information associated with a television program. The information may be a set of predetermined social objects associated with the television program a timestamp associated with the television program and a television program identifier for the television program. The mapping server may receive the EPG data from the EPG server or from the one or more client devices configured to access the EPG server . Receiving the EPG data can occur before or after the mapping server receives social object data.

The mapping server generates a graph. The graph is a graph data structure comprising the social object data and the EPG data. However the graph may alternatively be embodied as any other data structure such as a hash table an array a map or any other conventional data structure or mathematical model.

The social object data and the EPG data are embodied as nodes and edges of the graph. Nodes are points on the graph. In one embodiment nodes represent metadata tags. For example a node may be associated with a hashtag identifier from the social object data. The nodes may also represent television program identifiers associated with the EPG data. For example each television program identifier may be associated with a node.

Each node is connected to one or more adjacent nodes through an edge. The edge represents one or more non directional relationships between two nodes. Each relationship along the edge is associated with a timestamp. The timestamp may indicate when the edge or relationship was created.

Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify the relationship between metadata tags. For example a user may add a post to the social networking system that includes two hashtags hardcorr and halloweenselfie. By including both hashtags in the same post the user creates an edge between the two nodes that represent the hashtags. The relationship may be included in the social object data used to generate the graph. Other edges are generated when users interact with social objects in the social networking system . For example a user can add a hashtag to a page associated with a television program. For example a user may post the hashtag phrasing to a social network page for the television program Archer. Thus a relationship may be formed between the hashtag and the television program identifier associated with the social network page. Edges are additionally generated from EPG data. For example the EPG data may include one or more predetermined hashtags or other social objects associated with a television program. For example the EPG data may specify that the hashtag sherlocklives is associated with the television program Sherlock.

Multiple relationships may be present on one edge. For example multiple users may generate relationships between the hashtags greendale and community by uploading posts that include both of the two hashtags. Each relationship may be associated with the edge between the two hashtags.

The mapping server receives a query for a television program identifier. The query is for a television program identifier associated with a social object on the social networking system . For example the query may be received in response to a hashtag posted to the social networking system . Queries may be automatically generated. For example the query may be generated in response to a user posting a hashtag or performing any other action that includes a social object on the social networking system . The query may include the hashtag identifier associated with the queried hashtag.

The mapping server determines a set of television program identifiers associated with the query. The mapping server determines the set of television program identifiers associated with the hashtag identifier in the query. The mapping server traverses the graph to determine each television program identifier associated with the hashtag identifier in the query.

In one embodiment the mapping server traverses the graph using a breadth first search. In the breadth first search the mapping server begins at a root node. The root node may be the hashtag identifier associated with the hashtag identified in the query. The mapping server generates a set comprising every television program identifier adjacent to the root node. Each social object adjacent to the root node is the same distance i.e. number of nodes away from the root node. The social objects adjacent to the root node have a distance of 1. Each television program identifier in the set of television program identifiers adjacent to the root node i.e. with a distance of 1 is assigned a prominence value. In this case the prominence value indicates the number of relationships between a television program identifier and the root node. A higher prominence value indicates more relationships between the two social objects. For example a hashtag and a television program identifier that are frequently associated with each other in the social networking system will have a high prominence value.

The mapping server generates a set of each television program identifier 2 nodes away from the root node. Each television program identifier in the set of television program identifiers 2 nodes away from the root node each have a distance of 2. The mapping server generates a prominence value for each television program identifier in the set of television program identifiers 2 nodes away from the root node. The mapping server continues generating sets of television program identifiers at increasing distances from the root node. The mapping server also assigns prominence values to each television program identifier in the sets. In some embodiments the mapping server traverses the entire graph and assigns a distance and a prominence value to each television program identifier. In other embodiments the mapping server will stop traversing the graph after a predetermined distance. In other embodiments any other apparent traversing method such as depth first searching may be used by the mapping server .

In some embodiments the prominence value may be a predetermined value instead of the number of relationships between two nodes. For example if the EPG data indicates that the hashtag sesamestreet is associated with the television program identifier for Sesame Street the mapping server may set the prominence value to a very high value.

The mapping server ranks the set of television program identifiers. The mapping server ranks the set of television program identifiers based on the distance and the prominence value. For example the mapping server may rank the television program identifiers first by distance. For example television service identifiers associated with shorter distances are assigned a higher rank. The mapping server may subsequently rank the the television program identifiers by the prominence value associated with the television program identifier. This ranking procedure assigns the highest rank to the closest television program identifier with the highest prominence value. In other embodiments other ranking methods may be used.

The mapping server selects a subset of television program identifiers. The mapping server may select the television program identifiers based on the rank of the television program identifiers. In one embodiment the mapping server only selects the highest ranking television program identifier as the subset of television program identifiers. In another embodiment the mapping server selects a plurality of the highest ranked television program identifiers. Any apparent method or algorithm may be used to select the subset of television program identifiers.

The mapping server provides the subset of television program identifiers. The subset of television program identifiers may be provided to the social networking system to the client device or to any other device that can access the mapping server over the network .

The mapping server maintains a graph. The graph comprises nodes and edges. Edges comprise one or more relationships that connect two nodes. The graph is time dependent. In one embodiment the time dependent graph tracks when relationships are added to the graph. This allows the mapping server to filter the relationships based on time. In other words the mapping server can filter out old relationships since old relationships may be less relevant in a constantly changing social networking environment. For example the mapping server may filter out relationships between the hashtag happynewyear and hashtags for previous years e.g. 2009 since users are unlikely to be posting about events occurring in the distant past. Filtering out old relationship data reduces the amount of data that needs to be analyzed for each query to the mapping server .

Additionally or alternatively the mapping server uses time dependence to compress data in the graph. For example each relationship may be associated with a relationship entry. The entry may include the two social objects being connected by the relationship the timestamp and a weight. The weight may indicate that the relationship was made a certain number of times within the timeframe associated with the timestamp. For example the relationship entry may indicate that the relationship between two hashtags bees and wickerman was made once between 12 01 and 12 02. The mapping server may compress old relationships that are less relevant than more recent relationships. For example three separate relationship entries for bees and wickerman at 12 01 12 02 and 12 10 may be combined into a compressed relationship entry . The compressed relationship entry indicates that the relationship between bees and wickerman was made 3 times between 12 01 and 12 15. Thus the same relationship data is preserved with only a loss in time resolution. However time resolution is less important for older relationships especially in social networking systems where older relationships are less relevant. Compressing older data allows the mapping server to keep the old data while reducing the amount of data the mapping server needs to analyze for each query.

The mapping server selects a plurality of relationship entries to compress. The mapping server may select the plurality of relationship entries to compress using the timestamps associated with the relationship entries. The timestamps associated with the plurality of relationship entries may all be within a timeframe. For example each relationship entry in the plurality of relationship entries may have been created between 12 00 PM and 1 00 PM or 13 00 . The timeframe may be any interval of time. For example the mapping server may select the plurality of relationship entries with timestamps over one hour old. Furthermore each of the plurality of relationship entries are along the same edge meaning that the plurality of relationship entries associate the same social objects.

The mapping server compresses the plurality of relationship entries into a single relationship entry. The mapping server compresses the plurality of relationship entries by generating a compressed relationship entry. The compressed relationship entry comprises a timestamp interval that encompasses all of the timestamps of the plurality of relationship entries. The compressed relationship entry also comprises a compressed weight. The compressed weight may be the sum of all the weights of the plurality of relationship entries.

The mapping server updates the graph to include the compressed relationship entry. The mapping server also removes the plurality of relationship entries.

Now referring to it illustrates a flowchart of a process for selecting social objects for removal from a social networking webpage based on the associated metadata according to one example embodiment. The process for relating a metadata tag to a television program identifier as described above can be implemented in a social networking system to select undesirable social network content for removal based on metadata associated with the content. For example the process of can be applied to a social network to remove posts containing spoilers about a TV show from a user s newsfeed.

The mapping server receives a list of user selected TV shows. The list is of television shows that a user does not want to see in posts to the social network. For example the user may be a fan of the TV show Game of Thrones but may not want to see posts about the show in case another user on the social network discloses plot twists surprises or spoilers in a post thereby ruining the user s experience with both the social network and the TV show. The list of user selected TV shows includes a set of television program identifiers corresponding to the user selected TV shows.

In some embodiments the user selects the television program identifiers to be included in the list through an interface e.g. the social network user interface or through another application interface such as the interface of the PEEL SRapplication . In some embodiments the list of television program identifiers is generated by the social networking system . For example the social networking system can generate the list of television program identifiers based on which television program identifiers the user has interacted with e.g. viewed liked commented on etc. on the social network.

The mapping server loads a social object. Loading a social object includes receiving the social object or information associated with the social object from the social networking system or from the client device . The mapping server also loads metadata associated with the social object such as a hashtag or an identifier. The mapping server loads the social object based on a request from the social networking system . In some embodiments the mapping server loads each new social object before the social object is displayed in the social network interface. The mapping server extracts one or more hashtags from the loaded social object.

The mapping server queries the graph. The query is for a set of television program identifiers associated with things. The mapping server queries the graph for each hashtag term in the social object using the process described in . The mapping server receives a list of television program identifiers IDs associated with the queried hashtag terms.

The mapping server compares the received list of television program IDs with the list of user selected television shows. The mapping server compares each element of the received list of television program identifiers with the television program identifiers in the list of user selected television shows. The mapping server can use any apparent algorithm to compare the lists or match an element in the received list of television program IDs with an element in the list of user selected television shows. If the two lists share at least one common television program identifier the mapping server identifies the common element or elements between the list of television program identifiers and the list of user selected shows. Identifying the television program identifier can also include associating the television program identifier with the loaded social object.

Responsive to identifying at least one common element between the list of television program identifiers and the list of user selected shows the mapping server selects the social object for removal. Selecting the social object for removal includes selecting the social object associated with the identified television program identifier. The mapping server notifies the social networking system to remove the selected social object from the user s social networking interface. In some embodiments the notification includes an instruction to hide or remove the social object from the user s social networking interface. In some embodiments the notification includes a value such as a Boolean value that indicates if the social object is associated with one or more of the television program identifiers in the list of user selected television shows. The value is sent to the social networking system and is used by the social networking system to calculate a score for the social object. The social networking system determines to show or remove the social object based on the calculated score.

In some embodiments the social object is not selected for removal if one or more of the hashtags associated with the social object are on a white list of hashtags. For example even though the hashtag gameofthrones is related to the television show Game of Thrones the hashtag is likely to be in a large number of posts that don t necessarily contain spoilers. The user or application may whitelist certain hashtags so not every post related to the television show is hidden or removed.

The disclosed embodiments beneficially allow a mapping server to relate a hashtag to television program. For example users may wish to share their experiences with media content on a social network. However they may not be able to share some forms of media such as broadcast television programs. The disclosed embodiments beneficially relate a social object such as a hashtag on a social network to the television program the user is referencing. This allows the mapping server to identify the television program associated with the social object. This information could be used to provide the user with a link to the television program or metadata associated with the television program.

The disclosed embodiments further allows for the mapping server to compress graph data over time. Data is constantly added to the time dependent graph generated by the mapping server . To reduce the time required for a query to the time dependent graph the mapping server compresses older data. This allows the time dependent graph to keep the old data while reducing the time needed to perform a query to the time dependent graph.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example as illustrated in . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors e.g. processor that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for relating a hashtag to a television show through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

