---

title: Reducing paging delays using location analytics in communications networks
abstract: A method is provided in one example embodiment and includes querying by a first communications network a database maintained by a second communications network for location data comprising a path typically taken by a mobile device; using the location data to identify network elements of the first communications network located proximate the path; and sending a page request for the mobile device only to the identified network elements. The method may further include mapping a first identifier for the mobile device to the second identifier for the mobile device; and using the second identifier to perform the querying. In certain embodiments, the mapping is initiated responsive to a call received for the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09439169&OS=09439169&RS=09439169
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09439169
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140522
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications networks and more particularly to techniques for reducing paging delays in such networks using location analytics.

Updating location paging of mobile devices in wireless communications networks constitutes a significant problem this is especially true as cells are growing smaller and the number of mobile users is increasing rabidly. Without knowing the whereabouts of the mobile device the network has to page a large number of network elements to locate the mobile device. This has an enormous impact on the performance of the elements that do the paging. The cost of paging is primarily the radio bandwidth consumption in the wireless channels and the signaling exchange in the core network. A major concern for efficient mobility management in a cellular network is maintaining paging costs low while simultaneously maintaining a low paging delay. Paging in small cells increases the complexity of the problem because the network element responsible for paging such as a Home NodeB Gateway HNB GW is connected to a large number of small cells e.g. HNBs and the paging location areas may be deployed across small cell clusters.

A method is provided in one example embodiment and includes querying by a first communications network a database maintained by a second communications network for location data comprising a path typically taken by a mobile device using the location data to identify network elements of the first communications network located proximate the path and sending a page request for the mobile device only to the identified network elements. The method may further include mapping a first identifier for the mobile device to the second identifier for the mobile device and using the second identifier to perform the querying. In certain embodiments the mapping is initiated responsive to a call received for the mobile device. The first communications network may be a cellular communications network in which the network elements comprise Home Node Bs HNBs and the second communications network may be a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN . The the first identifier may be a MAC address of the mobile device. The second identifier may be one of an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI of the mobile device and a Universally Unique Identity UUID of the mobile device. In one embodiment the database comprises a location analytics database.

In one embodiment the present disclosure comprises a technique for reducing paging delays in a wireless communications network using location analytics. In many instances users of mobile devices follow a fairly predictable path on a daily basis. For example consider the commute path of a working individual who typically takes the same route to reach the office each day. If such patterns can be utilized to increase the probability of locating a user s mobile device they may enhance the ability to select which network access nodes to page before paging other nodes. Taking advantage of the ubiquitous presence of Wireless Local Area Networks WLANs or WiFi networks one could leverage data available from the existing WiFi networks to study and capitalize on such predictive behavior.

In certain implementations location analytics data which may be derived from a network device such as an integrated Mobility Services Engine MSE available from Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. can identify the usual paths that a user takes. The MSE can be queried to obtain such location data of a particular mobile device using the MAC address of the mobile device. Although in certain embodiments the MSE is a part of a WiFi network the user of the mobile device does not have to be associated with any WiFi network for the MSE to detect the mobile device and hence the user s location. The MSE may record the access point closest to the mobile device from the probe message without being sent from the UE devices. An interface may be established between the MSC and a Home NodeB Gateway HNB GW of a cellular communications network having a coverage area that overlaps with the WiFi network so that the HNB GW can query the MSE to obtain a set of Home NodeBs HNBs in whose coverage area the mobile device might be in when a page arrives for the mobile device. This would reduce the number of pages sent out by the HNB GW and the HNBs under the control thereof.

Referring now to illustrated therein is a block diagram of a system for reducing paging delays in wireless communication networks using location analytics. According to an embodiment the system operates to provide services such as mobile communication sessions to endpoints such as user equipment UE . A communication session may refer to active communication between endpoints. Information such as voice data text audio video multimedia control signaling other information or any combination of the preceding may be communicated during a communication session. Such information may be communicated in packets or any other format in accordance with a variety of protocols. A packet may comprise a bundle of data organized in a particular way for transmission and a frame may comprise the payload of one or more packets organized in a specific manner for transmission. A packet based communication protocol such as Internet Protocol IP may be used to communicate the packets.

UE represents any suitable device operable to communicate within a communications network via a wireless link and comprises any suitable arrangement of components operable to form the operations of UE including logic a user interface memory other components or any suitable combination of the preceding. UE may comprise for example a personal digital assistant a laptop computer a cellular telephone a mobile handset or any other device operable to communicate with system . In one embodiment UE may be operable to communicate with different types of networks. For example UE may be operable to communicate with a cellular communications network such as cellular network as well as an IP wireless local area network WLAN such as a Wi Fi network .

A cellular network such as the cellular network provides communication services for UE using any suitable cellular protocol and technology. The cellular network may use various cellular protocols and technologies including but not limited to 3G and 4G protocols and technologies. In one embodiment at least a portion of the network is implemented as a 3G network. As illustrated in the network enables one or more UE such as UE to be connected to communicate data to and from the Internet via a radio access network RAN comprising a plurality of RAN nodes represented in by Node Bs and HNBs and a core network. In one embodiment a portion of the the RAN is implemented as an HNB Access Network in which RAN nodes comprise HNBs as defined in ETSI TS 22.220 11 for providing 3G radio coverage for UEs. HNBs may incorporate the capabilities of standard Node Bs such as Node Bs as well as radio resource management functions of a standard Radio Network Controller RNC such as RNC . As shown in a Security Gateway SeGW establishes IPSec tunnels with HNBs which may be accomplished using Internet Key Exchange version 2 IKEv2 signaling for tunnel management. The tunnels established by SeGW are responsible for delivering voice messaging and packet data service3s between HNBs and the core network. SeGW forwards traffic from HNBs to an HNB GW . HNB GW aggregates traffic from a large number of HNBs such as HNBs and forward the aggregated traffic to the core network which as illustrated in is implemented as a Mobile Packet Core MPC via IuCS and IuPS interfaces. An Iuh interface between each HNB and SeGW HNB GW defines the security architecture used to provide secure scalable communications over the Internet . The Iuh interface also defines a method for transporting Iu based traffic and defines a Home Node B Application Part HNBAP protocol for facilitating secure registration of HNBs with HNB GW identification of HNBs and registration of UEs with HNB GW through HNBs thereby to support scalable ad hoc HNB deployment.

In the illustrated embodiment the cellular network includes a set of overlapping cell sites each of which corresponds to a respective one of the HNBs . A cell site may comprise any suitable element operable to provide cellular wireless services to UE as well as other mobile devices present in the service area of the cell site. Cell sites may provide service in any suitable configuration and or geographic area. SeGW HNB GW and HNBs comprise an HNB subsystem and cover a geographic region comprising the collective service area of HNBs . HNBs may communicate signals to and from UE via a wireless link which is commonly a radio frequency RF link. Node Bs may also communicate signals to and from UE via a wireless link comprising an RF link.

As further illustrated in the MPC includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC which is connected to each of RNC and HNB GW via a respective IuCS interface. MSC is responsible for routing voice calls and SMS setting up and releasing end to end connections managing mobility and handover requirements for a connection and managing charging and account monitoring. MPC also includes a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN connected to RAN and HNB GW via respective IuPS interfaces. SGSN performs packet routing and transfer mobility management logical link management and authentication and charging functionality. SGSN may also store location information and user provides of all GPRS users registered with it. SGSN is connected to a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN . GGSN performs internetworking between MPC and external packet switched networks such as Internet . GGSN converts data packets from SGSN into appropriate packet data protocol format e.g. IP for Internet and transmits them on the packet data network. Similarly GGSN readdresses packets received from external packet data networks and forwards them to the responsible SGSN.

UE can be associated with clients customers or end users wishing to initiate a communication in system via some network. The term user equipment is inclusive of devices used to initiate a communication such as a computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or electronic notebook a cellular telephone an iPhone an IP phone or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio video media or data exchanges within communication system . UE may also be inclusive of a suitable interface to the human user such as a microphone a display or a keyboard or other terminal equipment. UE may also be any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating an exchange within communication system . Data as used herein in this document refers to any type of numeric voice video media or script data or any type of source or object code or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another. On power up UE can be configured to initiate a request for a connection with a service provider. A user agreement can be authenticated by the service provider based on various service provider credentials e.g. subscriber identity module SIM Universal SIM USIM certifications etc. . More specifically a device can be authenticated by the service provider using some predetermined financial relationship.

In regard to particular applications involving UE media servers comprising one or more video servers may be provided which can provide streaming video to an individual associated with UE via the Internet . For example an individual could be uploading or streaming video over the network to which UE is connected. This could involve technologies such as flip video webcams YouTube and various other video technologies involving any type of uploading and or streaming video data.

For purposes of illustrating certain example techniques of communication system it is important to understand the communications including control signals that may be traversing the network and the overload situations that can occur at various points in the system due to such communications. It will be understood that after a subscriber data session has been established in a conventional fashion between the UE and the Internet data packets from the UE are encapsulated by the RAN elements in accordance with tunneling protocols between the RAN and the core network and then forwarded on to core network. The core network decapsulates the user data packets and forwards them to Internet . Conversely data packets intended for the UE are transmitted to the UE from the Internet via the core network which encapsulates them in accordance with the aforementioned tunneling protocols and the RAN elements decapsulate the data packets upon receipt thereof.

Downlink data paging is the process by which an inactive or idle UE is contacted to receive data from an upstream source over the packet data network. A UE that is in an active state is associated with an eNodeB and has at least one active bearer. When the UE goes inactive such as when it enters a low power mode it releases all bearers. To locate an inactive UE paging requests are issued to multiple HNBs which is typically an expensive operation.

Referring now to illustrated therein is a simplified block diagram of a WLAN or Wi Fi network such as the WLAN in accordance with embodiments described herein. As previously noted WLAN provides communication services for mobile device using any suitable wireless protocol and technology. Additionally WLAN utilizes wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of wireless standards to provide wireless communications services to mobile devices present in the service area of WLAN such as UE . As shown in WLAN includes multiple access points represented in by access points all connected to a WLAN controller . In accordance with features of an embodiment the WLAN controller is connected to an MSE which will be described in greater detail herein below. Each of the access points communicates signals to and from UEs anchored with the access point. Each of the access points comprises a network element including hardware and appropriate controlling logic for providing wireless access to WLAN using any appropriate wireless standard or protocol. One or more of the access points may be implemented as a wireless router that may include access point logic a router an Ethernet switch and or a broadband modem. In the illustrated embodiment a Location Analytics Database is connected to the MSE . The LAD serves as a repository for location analytics information developed by the MSE as described herein. It will be recognized that although the LAD is illustrated as comprising a separate component from the MSE in other embodiments the LAD may be integrated with the MSE. In still other embodiments the LAD may be connected to the MSE via a network and or the Internet.

As previously noted as shown in WLAN includes MSE which comprises a platform for enabling centralized delivery of WiFi based mobility services. In one embodiment data from the Cisco MSE calculates discrete time location and MAC addresses of UEs within the coverage area of WiFi access points in the network. A particular UE need not be associated with the WLAN to be identified and have its location estimated. The data enables estimation of behaviors through different parts of the WLAN coverage area and can be assembled into a set of chronological points per UE or paths on which movement analytics can be applied. With the potentially enormous amounts of data to get valuable insights requires application of data mining techniques and filtering. Operation of the MSE in accordance with embodiments described herein will be provided in greater detail hereinbelow.

In step MSE processes the raw location data into a path for each UE. Given that a UE may appear within the WLAN several times within a day a default cutoff of one hour with no datapoints indicates that a path or visit is over. Additional characteristics may be introduced with regard to UEs and corresponding paths such as whether the UE was associated or probing the zones through which it passed and identification of the user as a particular type of user. Any such characteristics may be deduced by the time and location combination in the data. For example airports need to differentiate arriving from departing passengers this information can be deduced by understanding the order of movement between air side and land side areas of the venue. Other logical tags can be associated with the UEs and can be used for alter reporting. Although little information beyond UE manufacturer can be gleaned directly from the MAC address there is the option to hash the address to ensure another level of privacy for the user of the UE. In step the processed data is stored in a database which may be integrated into or associated with MSE. Processed data may be stored in a manner that renders it easily searchable for one or more particular applications and or uses. For example the data may be used to determine precisely where a UE is currently or has recently been located in the coverage area and or to predict where a UE may be located at a particular time given historical location data for the UE.

Location analytics provides two orthogonal ways in which to look at the processed data. The first is from the perspective of the venue and what occurs in different parts thereof. The second is from the perspective of the UE passing through different parts of the venue i.e. paths followed . Once the parts of the venue have been established a set of measurements can be made detailing what occurs within them. Location analytics may provide two methods for defining the various parts of a venue. Explicit zones can be defined by the user as named polygons that represent known defined spaces. Each space can be busy or empty and thin or wide. The important factors are that each of the zones is identifiable by name and information pertaining to it can be put into a known context. Dynamic areas are generated mathematically based on where points are located. This process breaks the venue into cluster areas using a location based k means algorithm. The latter option provides the advantage of providing the user with immediate feedback on different parts of the venue including when zones are either not clear or not immediately available. This option can also be used to break up an explicit zone into areas representing different behaviors such as areas with more and less crowding or slow and fast movement.

The HNB GW includes a processor a memory element and a UE Mapping and Paging Module UEMPM all interconnected via a bus . The UEMPM has access to an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI Universally Unique Identifier UUID to MAC mapping table ID mapping table and an HNB location mapping table location mapping table . Similarly to the LAD the mapping tables may be integrated into the HNB GW in certain embodiments as illustrated in or may be disposed in a storage device external to and separate from HNB GW in a manner in which the tables are easily accessible by UEMPM . The mapping table may also be maintained within the MSE .

Referring again to memory elements comprises a plurality of storage locations that are addressable by the respective processor for storing software programs and data structures associated with the embodiments described herein. Processors may include hardware elements or hardware logic adapted to execute software programs such as embodied in modules and manipulate data structures in the memory elements . Module may comprise processes and or services as described herein and may interact with and manipulate a database such as LAD . Module may comprise processes and or services as described herein and may interact with and manipulate mapping tables .

In some embodiments the HNB GW may periodically ping the MSE for path information for a selected group of UEs thereby to update the location mapping table maintained within the HNB GW. In this manner the updating need not occur responsive to receipt of a call for one of the UEs of the selected group of UEs rather the internal location mapping table will be maintained substantially up to date so that it may be used immediately to determine which HNBs to page.

Although embodiments have been shown and described in connection with configuration of network devices it will be recognized that the techniques described herein are equally applicable to network maintenance applications. In summary the above described embodiments operate to reduce paging delays in a wireless communication network using location analytics provided by an MSE of a WLAN that geographically overlaps with the wireless communication network.

It should be noted that much of the infrastructure discussed herein could be provisioned as part of any type of network device. As used herein the term network device can encompass computers servers network appliances hosts routers switches gateways bridges virtual equipment load balancers firewalls processors modules or any other suitable device component element or object operable to exchange information in a communications environment. Moreover the network devices may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

In one implementation these devices can include software to achieve or to foster the activities discussed herein. This could include the implementation of instances of any of the components engines logic modules etc. shown in the FIGURES. Additionally each of these devices can have an internal structure e.g. a processor a memory element etc. to facilitate some of the operations described herein. In other embodiments the activities may be executed externally to these devices or included in some other device to achieve the intended functionality. Alternatively these devices may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate with other elements in order to perform the activities described herein. In still other embodiments one or several devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

In certain example implementations the functions outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances a memory element can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

In one example implementation various nodes involved in implementing the embodiments described herein can include software for achieving the described functions. For example referring again to the modules may comprise software embodied in one or more tangible media for facilitating the activities described herein. Memory elements may store information to be used in achieving the functions as outlined herein. Additionally processors are capable of executing software or an algorithm such as embodied in modules to perform the functions as discussed in this Specification and particularly as illustrated in . These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element random access memory RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that with the example provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that topologies illustrated in and described with reference to the accompanying FIGURES and their teachings are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of the illustrated topologies as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges embodiments described herein may be applicable to other architectures.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

