---

title: Compositions containing borane or carborane cage compounds and related applications
abstract: Compositions comprising a polymer-containing matrix and a filler comprising a cage compound selected from borane cage compounds, carborane cage compounds, metal complexes thereof, residues thereof, mixtures thereof, and/or agglomerations thereof, where the cage compound is not covalently bound to the matrix polymer. Methods of making and applications for using such compositions are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09133324&OS=09133324&RS=09133324
owner: Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC
number: 09133324
owner_city: Kansas City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141107
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 13 665 640 filed Oct. 31 2012 which is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 12 816 555 filed Jun. 16 2010 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 187 511 entitled REINFORCEMENT OF POLYMERS BY BORON CAGE COMPOUNDS NEW CARBORANE CONTAINING POLYMER COMPOSITIONS filed Jun. 16 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 235 255 entitled MATERIALS CONTAINING BORON CAGE COMPOUNDS AND RELATED APPLICATIONS filed Aug. 19 2009 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was developed with support from the U.S. government under a contract with the United States Department of Energy Contract No. DE ACO4 01AL66850. Accordingly the U.S. government has certain rights in the present invention.

One or more embodiments of the invention relate to compositions containing borane and or carborane cage compounds. Other embodiments of the invention may relate to methods of making or applications for using compositions containing borane and or carborane cage compounds.

Polymer nanocomposites have been the subject of intense research in recent years. Through the successful incorporation of nanofillers and other nanostructures polymer nanocomposites have demonstrated advanced material properties including reinforcement thermal flame moisture and chemical resistance charge dissipation barrier gas transport properties electrical conductivity and resistance among others. The high surface area of nanofillers and thereby their enhanced polymer interfaces likely contributes to the observed novel and advanced properties. However the mechanistic details by which reinforcement and other extraordinary properties occur as well as the exact nature of the interactions between the nanofiller and their polymer matrix are not well understood. In fact the properties observed in nanocomposites have been divergent ranging broadly from being reinforcing to plasticizing. In some cases the glass transition temperatures of polymer nanocomposites increase decrease remain unaffected or additional new glass transitions are formed compared to the unmodified host polymer. Thus given the unpredictable nature of nanocomposite technology improvements are still desired.

One embodiment of the invention concerns a composition comprising a matrix comprising a polymer where the polymer comprises less than 90 weight percent of a poly conjugated diene and less than 90 weight percent of a polysiloxane and a filler comprising a cage compound selected from the group consisting of a borane cage compound a carborane cage compound a metal complex thereof a residue thereof mixtures thereof and agglomerations thereof where the cage compound comprises at least 7 cage atoms and where the cage compound is not covalently bound to the polymer.

Another embodiment of the invention concerns a composition comprising a matrix comprising a polymer and a filler comprising a cage compound selected from the group consisting of a borane cage compound a carborane cage compound a metal complex thereof a residue thereof mixtures thereof and agglomerations thereof where the cage compound comprises at least 7 cage atoms where the cage compound comprises less than 95 weight percent of each of ortho 1 2 dicarbadodecaborane meta 1 7 dicarbadodecaborane para 1 12 dicarbadodecaborane and a compound having the following structure 

Yet another embodiment of the invention concerns a composition comprising a matrix comprising a polymer where the polymer comprises one or more residues of a cage compound monomer selected from the group consisting of a borane cage compound monomer a carborane cage compound monomer and mixtures thereof and a filler comprising a cage compound selected from the group consisting of a borane cage compound a carborane cage compound a metal complex thereof a residue thereof mixtures thereof and agglomerations thereof where the cage compound comprises at least 7 cage atoms and where the cage compound is not covalently bound to the polymer.

Still another embodiment of the invention concerns a method of making a nanocomposite. The method of this embodiment comprises combining a matrix and a filler where the matrix comprises a polymer where the polymer comprises less than 90 weight percent of a poly conjugated diene and less than 90 weight percent of a polysiloxane where the filler comprises a cage compound selected from the group consisting of a borane cage compound a carborane cage compound a metal complex thereof a residue thereof mixtures thereof and agglomerations thereof where the cage compound comprises at least 7 cage atoms and where the cage compound does not covalently bond to the polymer.

The following detailed description of the invention describes specific embodiments in which the invention can be practiced. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Various embodiments of the invention concern compositions e.g. nanocomposites or polymers containing borane and or carborane cage compounds or residues thereof. In one or more embodiments there is provided a nanocomposite comprising a matrix and a filler where the filler comprises a cage compound selected from the group consisting of a borane cage compound a carborane cage compound a metal complex thereof a residue thereof mixtures thereof and agglomerations thereof. As used herein the term nanocomposite shall denote a composition comprising at least two components where each component contains at least one different molecular species or residue than the other component s where such components are not covalently bound to one another and where at least one of the components has at least one dimension sized less than 100 nm. Matrices suitable for use in nanocomposites in various embodiments of the present invention can comprise a polymer.

As noted above the various fillers employed in the present invention can contain borane and or carborane compounds or residues thereof. As used herein the term borane shall denote a chemical compound consisting of boron and hydrogen atoms exclusive of any pendant group atoms. Additionally in various embodiments described herein the term boron cage compound is employed. The terms boron cage compound and borane cage compound shall be construed as having the same meaning and each are intended to denote a cage compound defined below that is a borane. As used herein the term carborane shall denote a chemical compound consisting of boron hydrogen and carbon atoms exclusive of any pendant group atoms.

As noted above the borane and or carborane compounds can be in the form of a cage compound. As used herein the term cage compound is intended to denote a molecule having a polyhedral or substantially polyhedral structure of nido a polyhedron missing only one vertex or above i.e. polyhedrons missing no vertices e.g. closo hypercloso capped bicapped etc. . Examples of polyhedral shapes suitable for use in the cage compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to trigonal bipyramid octahedron pentagonal bipyramid dodecahedron tricapped trigonal prism bicapped square antiprism octadecahedron and icosahedron. Additionally cage compounds suitable for use can have one or more of such polyhedral shapes fused together i.e. a conjuncto configuration . In various embodiments the cage compound employed can have a closo polyhedral structure. Additionally the cage compound employed can have an icosahedral or pentagonal bipyramidal structure. Furthermore in various embodiments the cage compound employed has an icosahedral structure. In addition cage compounds suitable for use can comprise two or more of such structures tethered together by a linking group such as for example the propyl linkage in a carborane 1 3 o carboranylpropane i.e. tethered carborane . In one or more embodiments the cage compound or combination of cage compounds can constitute at least 50 at least 60 at least 70 at least 80 at least 90 or at least 99 weight percent of the above mentioned filler. In other various embodiments cage compounds can constitute all or substantially all of the above mentioned filler.

Cage compounds suitable for use in various embodiments of the present invention can have at least 7 at least 8 at least 9 at least 10 at least 11 or at least 12 cage atoms. As used herein the term cage atom is intended to denote an atom located at and defining a vertex of the polyhedral or substantially polyhedral structure. This is in contrast to atoms that are pendant to the cage compound. Additionally the cage compounds suitable for use in various embodiments of the present invention can have in the range of from 7 to 20 cage atoms in the range of from 9 to 15 cage atoms or in the range of from 11 to 13 cage atoms. In one or more embodiments the cage compound can have 12 cage atoms. When the cage compound employed is a tethered compound such compound can have a greater number of cage atoms. For instance when the cage compound employed comprises two cage compound structures tethered together such compound can have in the range of from 14 to 40 cage atoms in the range of from 18 to 30 cage atoms or in the range of from 22 to 26 cage atoms. In one or more embodiments a tethered cage compound can have 24 cage atoms.

As noted above the cage compounds employed in various embodiments of the present invention can include borane and or carborane cage compounds. Thus in one or more embodiments the cage compound can comprise boron atoms or a combination of boron and carbon atoms as cage atoms. When a carborane cage compound is employed in various embodiments at least about 50 percent at least about 60 percent at least about 70 percent at least about 80 percent or at least 90 percent of the cage atoms in the carborane cage compounds are boron atoms. In other embodiments when a carborane cage compound is employed carbon atoms can constitute in the range of from 1 to 6 in the range of from 1 to 4 or in the range of from 1 to 2 cage atoms per molecule of the carborane cage compound. When the cage compound employed is a tethered carborane such compound can have in the range of from 2 to 12 carbon cage atoms in the range of from 2 to 8 carbon cage atoms or in the range of from 2 to 4 carbon cage atoms.

In various embodiments the cage compounds suitable for use can comprise one or more pendant atoms or pendant groups. As used herein the term pendant shall be construed as meaning covalently bound to the cage compound. In various embodiments pendant atoms or pendant groups can be covalently bound to one or more cage atoms. Examples of atoms suitable for use as pendant atoms include but are not limited to single valence atoms such as chlorine bromine or iodine. Pendant groups a.k.a. functional groups suitable for use in various embodiments can generally be either reactive e.g. carboxyl groups or generally non reactive e.g. unsubstituted saturated alkyl groups . Examples of pendant groups suitable for inclusion on the cage compounds in various embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to alkyls e.g. methyl ethyl etc. alkenyls e.g. vinyl allyl etc. alkynyls aryls alkaryls aralkyls alkoxys epoxys phenyls benzyls hydroxys carboxyls acyls carbonyls aldehydes carbonate esters carboxylates ethers esters hydroperoxides peroxides carboxamides amines imines imides azides azos cyanates isocyanates nitrates nitriles nitrites nitros nitrosos pyridyls phosphinos phosphates phosphonos sulfos sulfonyls sulfinyls sulfhydryls thiocyanates disulfides silyls and alkoxy silyls e.g. triethoxysilyl . As used herein the term alkyl shall denote a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon and may include heteroatoms. As used herein the term aryl shall denote a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a ring carbon in an arene i.e. a mono or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon and may include heteroatoms. As used herein the term heteroatom shall denote any atom other than carbon and hydrogen. Examples of heteroatoms suitable for use include but are not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur phosphorus chlorine bromine or iodine. In various embodiments cage compounds of the present invention can comprise two or more of such pendant groups. In one or more embodiments the cage compound can comprise one or more pendant groups selected from the group consisting of a Cto Cn alkyl a Cto Cn alkyl a Cto Cn alkyl a hydroxy a carboxy an epoxy an isocyanate a cyanurate a primary amine a silyl an alkoxy silyl and mixtures of two or more thereof.

In one or more embodiments metal complexes of cage compounds can be used in various embodiments of the present invention. For instance cage compounds described herein as suitable for use could constitute one or more ligands in a metal complex. Metals suitable for use in metal complexed cage compounds include any metal capable of forming an air and moisture stable metal complex. Such metals include but are not limited to any Group 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 metal.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can be a stable compound. As used herein the term stable when referring to cage compounds shall denote a general lack of decomposition or tendency towards the formation of new covalent bonds with a host matrix during synthesis formation storage and application of the nanocomposites in which the cage compounds are incorporated with the caveat that all such polymer based materials including the nanocomposites described herein are not expected to have an infinite use life and will age to varying degrees based on the severity of the synthesis storage and or application conditions employed and the duration to which the nanocomposites are subjected to such conditions.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a closo carborane having the general formula CBH where n can be in the range of from 5 to 10. Additionally in various embodiments the cage compound employed can comprise a closo carborane having the general formula CBH where n is 10 i.e. closo dicarbadodecaborane . When the cage compound employed herein is a closo dicarbadodecaborane it can be in the ortho i.e. 1 2 closo dicarbadodecaborane meta i.e. 1 7 closo dicarbadodecaborane or para i.e. 1 12 closo dicarbadodecaborane configuration. In one embodiment the cage compound employed can be a 1 2 closo dicarbadodecaborane. Additionally such closo carboranes can include any one or more of the pendant groups described above. For example in various embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a closo carborane having the general formula R CBH where n can be in the range of from 5 to 10 x can be in the range of from 1 to 2 and where each R can be the same or different and can independently comprise any of the pendant groups mentioned above. For instance R can be chosen from aliphatic compounds e.g. n hexyl and or heteroatom containing aliphatic compounds.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a closo carborane salt having the general formula CBH X where n can be in the range of from 6 to 11 and X can be any of a variety of cationic species. Cationic species suitable for use as X include but are not limited to Li Na K Cs and NR where R is hydrogen or an aliphatic group for example . Additionally such closo carborane salts can include any one or more of the pendant groups described above. For example in various embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a closo carborane salt having the general formula R CBH X where n can be in the range of from 6 to 11 X can be any of a variety of cationic species and where R can be any of the pendant groups mentioned above. For instance R can be chosen from aliphatic compounds e.g. n hexyl and or heteroatom containing aliphatic compounds.

In various embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a closo borane salt having the general formula BH X where n can be in the range of from 7 to 12 and X can be any of a variety of cationic species. Cationic species suitable for use as X include but are not limited to Li Na K Cs and NR where R is hydrogen or an aliphatic group for example . Additionally in various embodiments the cage compound employed can comprise a closo borane having the general formula BH X where n is 12 i.e. a dodecaborate and X can be any variety of cationic species. Furthermore such closo boranes can include any one or more of the pendant groups described above. It should be noted that although certain compounds described herein employ two monocationic species to form a salt it is contemplated in various embodiments of the present invention to employ multicationic species e.g. dications in combination with cage compounds that are multianionic e.g. dianionic . For instance dicationic species contemplated for use herein include but are not limited to alkaline earth metals such as magnesium calcium and the like.

In various embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a closo borane salt having the general formula BH OR X where each R can individually be hydrogen atoms and or or aliphatic groups e.g. a methyl or ethyl group where n can be in the range of from 7 to 12 where m p n with p being in the range of from 1 to 12 or in the range of from 2 to 12 and X can be any of a variety of cationic species including but not limited to Li Na Cs and NR where R is hydrogen or an aliphatic group for example . Furthermore such closo boranes can include any one or more of the pendant groups described above.

In various embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a nido carborane salt having the general formula R CBH Xwhere x is in the range of from 1 to 2 where n is in the range of from 5 to 9 and where each R can be the same or different and can independently comprise any of the pendant groups mentioned above. For instance R can be chosen from aliphatic compounds e.g. n hexyl and or heteroatom containing aliphatic compounds. X can be any of a variety of cationic species including but not limited to Li Na K Cs and NR where R is hydrogen or an aliphatic group for example . In one or more embodiments n can be 9 giving the general formula R CBH Xwhere x is in the range of from 1 to 2 where each R can be the same or different and can independently comprise any of the pendant groups mentioned above and where X can be any of a variety of cationic species including but not limited to Li Na K Cs and NR where R is hydrogen or an aliphatic group for example .

In various embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a nido carborane salt having the general formula R CBH Xwhere x is in the range of from 0 to 1 where n is in the range of from 6 to 10 and where R can comprise any of the pendant groups mentioned above. For instance R can be chosen from aliphatic compounds e.g. n hexyl and or heteroatom containing aliphatic compounds. X can be any of a variety of cationic species including but not limited to Li Na K Cs and NR where R is hydrogen or an aliphatic group for example . In one or more embodiments n can be 10 giving the general formula R CBH Xwhere x is in the range of from 0 to 1 where R can comprise any of the pendant groups mentioned above and where X can be any of a variety of cationic species including but not limited to Li Na K Cs and NR where R is hydrogen or an aliphatic group for example .

As noted above in various embodiments of the present invention the cage compound employed can comprise a structure having two or more cage compounds linked together by a linking group. Such a linking group can be any multivalent group capable of linking two or more cage compounds together. In one or more embodiments the linking group can be an alkylene or arylene group. As used herein the term alkylene shall denote a divalent group formed by removing two hydrogen atoms from a hydrocarbon the free valencies of which are not engaged in a double bond and may include heteroatoms. As used herein the term arylene shall denote a divalent group formed by removing two hydrogen atoms from a ring carbon in an arene i.e. a mono or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon and may include heteroatoms. Linking alkylene and arylene groups suitable for use include any substituted or unsubstituted Cto Calkylene or arylene groups. Additionally alkylene groups suitable for use can be straight branched or cyclic and can be saturated or unsaturated. In one or more embodiments the linking groups can comprise a straight chain Cto Calkylene group. In still other embodiments the linking group can be selected from the group consisting of 1 2 ethylene 1 3 n propylene and 1 4 n butylene. Additionally aliphatic and aromatic groups including heteroatom substituted aliphatic and aromatic groups having more than two free valencies can be employed as linking groups.

In various embodiments the cage compound can comprise one or more of the compounds shown in formulas I through XV below. It should be noted that for ease of reference all borane and carborane structures depicted herein are shown without the hydrogen atoms that are normally covalently bound to cage atoms. In general unless otherwise substituted each cage atom in a borane or carborane cage compound having a closo configuration will be covalently bound to one hydrogen atom.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more alkyl o carboranes having the following structure I 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more 1 2 bis hydroxymethyl carboranes carborane diol having the following structure II 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more epoxy containing carboranes having either of the following structures III or IV 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more silyl containing carboranes having the following structure V 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more isocyanate containing carboranes having either of the following structures VI or VII 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more primary amine containing carboranes having any of the following structures VIII IX X or XI 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more linked a.k.a. tethered carboranes having the following structure XII 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more borane salts having the following structure XIII 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound can comprise one or more hydroxylated borane anions or salts thereof having either of the following structures XIV or XV 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound or compounds selected for use can comprise less than 95 less than 90 less than 85 less than 80 less than 75 less than 70 less than 65 less than 60 less than 55 less than 50 less than 45 less than 40 less than 35 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent of ortho 1 2 dicarbadodecaborane based on the entire weight of cage compounds present in the composition. Additionally in various embodiments the cage compound or compounds selected for use can comprise no or substantially no ortho 1 2 dicarbadodecaborane . As used herein the term substantially no when used with respect to cage compound components shall denote a content of no more than 10 parts per million by weight ppmw .

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound or compounds selected for use can comprise less than 95 less than 90 less than 85 less than 80 less than 75 less than 70 less than 65 less than 60 less than 55 less than 50 less than 45 less than 40 less than 35 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent of meta 1 7 dicarbadodecaborane based on the entire weight of cage compounds present in the composition. Additionally in various embodiments the cage compound or compounds selected for use can comprise no or substantially no meta 1 7 dicarbadodecaborane .

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound or compounds selected for use can comprise less than 95 less than 90 less than 85 less than 80 less than 75 less than 70 less than 65 less than 60 less than 55 less than 50 less than 45 less than 40 less than 35 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent of para 1 12 dicarbadodecaborane based on the entire weight of cage compounds present in the composition. Additionally in various embodiments the cage compound or compounds selected for use can comprise no or substantially no para 1 12 dicarbadodecaborane .

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the cage compound or compounds selected for use can comprise less than 95 less than 90 less than 85 less than 80 less than 75 less than 70 less than 65 less than 60 less than 55 less than 50 less than 45 less than 40 less than 35 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent of a compound having the following structure XVI 

In addition to the above described cage compounds the filler can comprise one or more additional materials. In various embodiments the filler can further comprise one or more materials selected from the group consisting of carbon nanotubes carbon fullerenes polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane boron nitride nanotubes clay and mixtures of two or more thereof. In various embodiments such additional materials can in combination constitute up to 95 up to 85 up to 75 up to 65 or up to 50 weight percent of the filler.

As noted above nanocomposites according to various embodiments of the present invention can comprise a matrix. The matrix employed as a component in the nanocomposite can comprise a polymer. The term polymer as used herein and unless otherwise specified is intended to include homopolymers and polymers containing two or more types of monomer residues e.g. copolymers terpolymers etc. . The polymer or combination of polymers employed can constitute at least 50 weight percent at least 60 weight percent at least 70 weight percent at least 80 weight percent at least 90 weight percent or at least 99 weight percent of the matrix. In various embodiments the polymer or combination of polymers can constitute all or substantially all of the matrix. As used herein the term substantially all with respect to the polymeric concentration of the matrix shall mean that the matrix comprises at most 10 ppmw of non polymeric material.

Any polymer known or hereafter discovered in the art can be employed in the various embodiments of the present invention. In one or more embodiments as described in greater detail below the polymer can be chosen so that it does not form covalent bonds with the above described cage compound chosen for use in the nanocomposite. Furthermore in various embodiments the polymer is not a sacrificial binder. Types of polymers suitable for use in various embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to an epoxy polymer polyurethane silicone i.e. polysiloxane poly ethylene co vinyl acetate EVA polyethylene co vinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol EVA OH poly ethylene co ethyl acrylate PEEA poly ethylene co octene PEO styrene butadiene styrene triblock copolymers SBS poly conjugated dienes e.g. polybutadiene polyisoprene etc. polycyanurate polyacetal polyacrylic polycarbonate polystyrene polyester polyamide polyamideimide polyarylate polyarylsulfone polyethersulfone polyphenylene sulfide polyvinyl chloride polysulfone polyimide polyetherimide polytetrafluoroethylene polyetherketone polyether etherketone polyether ketone ketone polybenzoxazole polyoxadiazole polybenzothiazinophenothiazine polybenzothiazole polypyrazinoquinoxaline polypyromellitimide polyquinoxaline polybenzimidazole polyoxindole polyoxoisoindoline polydioxoisoindoline polytriazine polypyridazine polypiperazine polypyridine polypiperidine polytriazole polypyrazole polypyrrolidine polycarborane polyoxabicyclononane polydibenzofuran polyphthalide polyacetal polyanhydride polyvinyl ether polyvinyl thioether polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl ketone polyvinyl halide polyvinyl nitrile polyvinyl ester polysulfonate polysulfide polythioester polysulfone polysulfonamide polyurea polyphosphazene polysilazane phenolic resin or combinations of two or more thereof. In one or more embodiments the matrix can comprise a polymer selected from the group consisting of an epoxy polymer a polyurethane poly ethylene co vinyl acetate poly ethylene co vinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol poly ethylene co ethyl acrylate poly ethylene co octene a polycyanurate and mixtures of two or more thereof. In other various embodiments the polymer can be selected from the group consisting of an epoxy polymer a polyurethane a polysiloxane polyethylene co vinyl acetate poly ethylene co vinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol styrene butadiene styrene poly ethylene co ethyl acrylate poly ethylene co octene a polycyanurate and mixtures of two or more thereof. Additionally in various embodiments the matrix can comprise a plurality of polymer types. As used herein the term plurality shall mean two or more.

In one or more embodiments the matrix can comprise a polymer having one or more residues of a cage compound monomer such as a borane cage compound monomer a carborane cage compound monomer or mixtures thereof. In various embodiment the matrix can comprise a polymer or polymers having one or more cage compound monomer residues in an amount of at least 10 at least 20 at least 30 at least 40 at least 50 at least 60 at least 70 at least 80 at least 90 or at least 99 weight percent. In various embodiments the matrix can further comprise a polymer in addition to the polymer having one or more residues of a cage compound monomer selected from the group consisting of an epoxy polymer a polyurethane a polysiloxane poly ethylene co vinyl acetate poly ethylene co vinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol styrene butadiene styrene poly ethylene co ethyl acrylate poly ethylene co octene a polycyanurate and mixtures of two or more thereof. When the matrix comprises a polymer or polymers in addition to polymers containing cage compound monomer residues such additional polymer or polymers can constitute at least 10 at least 20 at least 30 at least 40 at least 50 at least 60 at least 70 at least 80 at least 90 or at least 99 weight percent of the matrix. Furthermore cage compound containing polymers can be present in a weight ratio with non cage compound containing polymers in the range of from about 99 1 to about 1 99 in the range of from about 1 50 to about 50 1 in the range of from about 1 10 to about 10 1 or in the range of from about 1 2 to about 2 1.

Cage compound monomers can be any of those cage compounds described above as being suitable for use in the filler. For instance in various embodiments the selected cage compound monomer can comprise 12 cage atoms and have an icosahedral structure. Additionally in various embodiments the cage compound monomer can comprise at least one or at least two reactive functional groups per cage compound. Such reactive functional groups include but are not limited to hydroxy carboxy epoxy isocyanate primary amine silyl and alkoxy silyl. In one or more embodiments the cage compound monomer can be selected from the group consisting of 

Polymers containing cage compound monomer residues can contain such residues in the polymer backbone pendant to the polymer backbone and or in crosslinked polymer networks. Additionally polymers containing cage compound monomer residues can be homopolymers of cage compound monomer residues copolymers of two or more types of cage compound monomer residues or copolymers of one or more types of cage compound monomer residues with one or more other types of monomer residues. Examples of additional monomers that can be combined with cage compound monomers include but are not limited to bisphenol A diglycidyl ether BADGE 4 4 methylenedianiline MDA nonyl phenol 1 2 aminoethyl piperazine diethylenetriamine triethylenetriamine a bisisocyanate a bishydroxy e.g. an aliphatic diol and mixtures of two or more thereof. Additionally cage compound monomers can be incorporated into existing polymers via grafting or pendant attachment. Examples of such existing polymers include but are not limited to EVA OH and toluenediisocyanate end capped polybutadiene TDI end capped PBD 

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the polymer or polymers selected for use can comprise less than 95 less than 90 less than 85 less than 80 less than 75 less than 70 less than 65 less than 60 less than 55 less than 50 less than 45 less than 40 less than 35 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent of 1 4 polybutadiene based on the entire weight of polymers present in the composition. Additionally in various embodiments the polymer or polymers selected for use can comprise no or substantially no 1 4 polybutadiene. As used herein the term substantially no when used with respect to polymeric components of the matrix shall denote a content of no more than 10 ppmw.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the polymer or polymers selected for use can comprise less than 95 less than 90 less than 85 less than 80 less than 75 less than 70 less than 65 less than 60 less than 55 less than 50 less than 45 less than 40 less than 35 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent of a poly conjugated diene based on the entire weight of polymers present in the composition. Additionally in various embodiments the polymer or polymers selected for use can comprise no or substantially no poly conjugated diene . In embodiments where the polymer or polymers selected for use contain less than a certain amount of poly conjugated diene the term poly conjugated diene is intended to denote a homopolymer of conjugated diene monomer residues. Thus copolymers containing conjugated diene monomer residues in conjunction with other types of monomer residues are not intended to be limited by the foregoing. For instance copolymers such as for example styrene butadiene styrene are not intended to be included as a poly conjugated diene even though such a copolymer may have poly conjugated diene i.e. polybutadiene segments.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the polymer or polymers selected for use can comprise less than 95 less than 90 less than 85 less than 80 less than 75 less than 70 less than 65 less than 60 less than 55 less than 50 less than 45 less than 40 less than 35 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent of a polysiloxane based on the entire weight of polymers present in the composition. Additionally in various embodiments the polymer or polymers selected for use can comprise no or substantially no polysiloxane.

As noted above nanocomposites can be prepared from combinations of one or more of the above described matrices and fillers. In one or more embodiment nanocomposites can comprise at least one cage compound that is not covalently hound to at least one polymer. In other embodiments the nanocomposites can comprise at least one cage compound that is not covalently bound to any polymer present in the nanocomposite. Thus in various embodiments polymer and cage compound combinations can be chosen according to their relative reactivity towards each other. In one or more embodiments at least one polymer can be chosen that is non reactive with respect to at least one chosen cage compound. Conversely at least one cage compound can be chosen that is non reactive with respect to at least one chosen polymer. As used herein the term non reactive shall denote a polymer and cage compound combination that does not form a new molecular structure via covalent bonding when combined alone e.g. in the absence of catalysts polymerization initiators etc. at standard temperature and pressure according to the National Institute of Standards and Technology i.e. 20 C. 1 atm . In various embodiments at least one cage compound does not covalently bound to at least one polymer at a temperature in the range of from 100 to 250 C. and a pressure from 0.01 to 20 atm when combined alone.

Nanocomposites according to various embodiments of the present invention include any combination of at least one cage compound i.e. as part or all of a filler and at least one polymer i.e. as part or all of a matrix described above with the proviso that at least one cage compound is not covalently bound to at least one polymer. Specific examples of suitable combinations of polymers and cage compounds include but are not limited to a a matrix comprising an epoxy polymer and or a polyurethane and a filler comprising n hexyl o carborane b a matrix comprising an epoxy polymer combined with a carboranyl bisepoxide e.g. formula IV above and a filler comprising n hexyl o carborane c a matrix comprising EVA and or EVA OH polymers and a filler comprising at least one cage compound selected from the group consisting of lithium dodecaborate i.e. Li BH formula XIII above tethered carborane i.e. formula XII above carborane diol i.e. formula II above n hexyl o carborane i.e. formula I above cesium dodecaborate i.e. Cs BH formula XIII above potassium dodecaborate i.e. K BH formula XIII above ditetramethylammonium dodecaborate i.e. CH N BH formula XIII above ditetramethylammonium dodecahydroxy borane i.e. CH N B OH formula XV above lithium dodecahydroxy borane i.e. Li B OH formula XV above and mixtures of two or more thereof d a matrix comprising PEEA polymer and a filler comprising at least one cage compound selected from the group consisting of lithium dodecaborate tethered carborane diol carborane n hexyl o carborane and mixtures of two or more thereof and e a matrix comprising PEO polymer and a filler comprising at least one cage compound selected from the group consisting of lithium dodecaborate tethered carborane diol carborane n hexyl o carborane and mixtures of two or more thereof.

The nanocomposites described herein can comprise any desired amounts or ratios of matrix and filler. In various embodiments the filler can be present in the nanocomposite in an amount of at least 0.01 at least 0.1 or at least 0.25 weight percent based on the entire weight of the nanocomposite. Additionally in one or more embodiments the filler can be present in the nanocomposite in an amount in the range of from about 0.01 to about 75 weight percent in the range of from about 0.1 to about 50 weight percent or in the range of from 0.25 to 30 weight percent based on the entire weight of the nanocomposite. In various embodiments the matrix can be present in the nanocomposite in an amount of at least 25 weight percent at least 50 weight percent or at least 70 weight percent. Furthermore the matrix can be present in the nanocomposite in an amount in the range of from about 50 to about 99.99 weight percent in the range of from about 60 to about 99.9 weight percent or in the range of from 70 to 99.75 weight percent.

The addition of the various cage compounds described above can have varying effects on the polymer employed in the matrix of the nanocomposite depending on the type of polymer chosen as well as the type of cage compound chosen. In various embodiments the selected cage compound can have a plasticizing effect on the chosen polymer. Thus in such embodiments the nanocomposite can have a lower glass transition temperature Tg compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. In alternate embodiments the selected cage compound can have a reinforcing effect on the chosen polymer. Thus in such embodiments the nanocomposite can have a higher Tg compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. It should be noted that the Tg for a given polymer or for a given phase within a polymer composite or mixture the exact temperature of which may depend on the method used in its determination is the temperature about which the polymer changes from a rigid glassy solid to an amorphous elastomeric material. In general this temperature is closely associated with the tan peak maximum for the same material. The tan peak maximum is the ratio of the loss modulus G and storage modulus G of a given polymer or a given phase within a polymer composite or mixture.

In addition to plasticization or reinforcement the use of cage compounds can affect other properties of the matrix polymer. In various embodiments the nanocomposite can have a higher storage and or loss modulus compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. Alternatively the nanocomposite can have a lower storage and or loss modulus compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. In various embodiments the nanocomposite can have an increased thermal stability compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. Alternatively the nanocomposite can have decreased thermal stability compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. In various embodiments the nanocomposite can have an increased melt viscosity compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. Alternatively the nanocomposite can have decreased melt viscosity compared to the un modified matrix polymer or polymers. In various embodiments the nanocomposite can have an increased neutron absorption capability particularly if the cage compound is enriched in B. As an example of such effects imparted by cage compound containing fillers lithium dodecaborate appears to reinforce increase the thermal stability storage and loss moduli and melt viscosity of EVA EVA OH and PEEA containing matrices. Similarly tethered carborane appears to slightly reinforce increase the storage and loss moduli and melt viscosity of EVA EVA OH and PEEA containing matrices. Also carborane diol appears to slightly reinforce and increase the storage and loss moduli but lowers the melt viscosity of EVA and EVA OH containing matrices. Conversely n hexyl o carborane appears to plasticize decrease the thermal stability storage and loss moduli and melt viscosity of EVA EVA OH PEEA and PEO containing matrices. In still other embodiments the added cage compound can have little or no effect on the properties of the matrix polymer or polymers even when present in large amounts. Furthermore in one or more embodiments the nanocomposites described herein can be effectively optically clear and colorless.

The nanocomposites described herein can be prepared employing any known or hereafter discovered methods in the art for preparing nanocomposite materials. In one or more embodiments the nanocomposites can be prepared by simply combining and mixing a matrix comprising one or more of the above described polymers with a filler comprising one or more of the above described cage compounds. Any mixing methods known or hereafter discovered in the art can be employed for preparing the nanocomposites. Additionally the nanocomposites can be prepared at a temperature in the range of from about 150 to about 200 C. in the range of from about 100 to about 150 C. or in the range of from 50 to 100 C. Furthermore the nanocomposites can be prepared at a pressure in the range of from about 0.1 to about 20 atm in the range of from about 0.5 to about 10 atm or in the range of from 1 to 5 atm. After mixing the mixture can optionally be cured for a period of time at room or elevated temperature. When elevated temperature is employed for curing the nanocomposite such elevated temperature can be higher than the temperature employed for mixing the matrix and the filler. For instance such elevated temperature can be at least 10 at least 50 or at least 100 C. higher than the temperature employed for mixing the matrix and the filler. In various embodiments the curing temperature can be in the range of from about 50 to about 400 C. or in the range of from 75 to 150 C. Curing times can vary as needed. For example curing times can be in the range of from about 30 minutes to about 1 week or in the range of from 1 hour to 24 hours. When preparing the nanocomposites described herein in various embodiments at least one cage compound does not covalently bound to at least one polymer in the nanocomposite during the preparation procedure including but not limited to during the mixing and curing steps described above.

The nanocomposites described herein can be used in a variety of applications including preparation of articles of manufacture. Articles of manufacture employing one or more of the nanocomposites described herein may include but are not limited to tires o rings gaskets foams cushions pads membranes potting materials adhesives glues paints coatings fibers fabric coatings and hoses among others. Additionally sensor applications neutron shielding materials electrospun fibers or nanotubes containing one or more of the above described nanocomposites are contemplated by various embodiments of the present invention. Furthermore it is contemplated that such nanocomposites can be suited for use as part or all of drug delivery systems.

This invention can be further illustrated by the following examples of embodiments thereof although it will be understood that these examples are included merely for the purposes of illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention unless otherwise specifically indicated.

In the following Examples 1 6 nanocomposite test samples were subject to various characterization testing. The following procedures were employed.

A TA Instruments AR G2 rheometer was used to determine rheological properties of samples using temperature sweep with a constant strain and frequency. The rheology testing was performed under torsion between 25 mm diameter parallel plates. As much as possible disks diameter 12.5 mm by 3.25 mm thick of uniform size were used as samples. Using a 12.5 mm die samples were cut from pressed sheets. All samples were subjected to a temperature sweep from high to low temperatures at strains of 0.05 and a frequency of 1 Hz. All experiments were performed under normal force control at 5.0 N with a 0.5 N tolerance gap 500 000 nm . A temperature ramp rate of 5 C. minute was employed. The temperature range varied depending on the locations of the expected transitions but for most uncured samples samples were cooled from 30 C. to 60 C. at a rate of 5 C. minute. Higher initial temperatures were used for cured samples and they were most often cooled from 100 to 60 C. A 5 10 minute equilibration time was used once a sample reached the starting temperature.

A different type of rotational rheometer called a rubber process analyzer was used to determine the melt viscosity of the uncured EVA and EVA OH nanocomposite samples above the melt point of the polymer. The RPA2000 instrument from Alpha Technologies determines the viscoelastic responses of materials by containing the sample 5 g in a cavity formed by two dies. One of these dies oscillates through a rotational amplitude and the resulting sinusoidal torque is measured. A standard melt viscosity test was used to characterize uncured EVA and EVA OH averages for complex viscosity over 5 minutes when tested at a temperature of 121 C. strain of 1 14 and frequency of 10 Hz.

Differential scanning calorimetry was performed using a TA Instruments Q2000 DSC. All experiments were carried out on samples weighing between 7 mg and 15 mg using aluminum pans and an identical yet empty pan as a reference. During DSC analyses all of the polymer nanocomposite samples were cooled from 25 C. to 100 C. heated to 150 C. or 200 C. cooled to 100 C. and reheated to 200 C. All cooling and heating rates used were 10 C. minute.

Thermogravimetric analyses were performed on clean platinum pans using a TA Instruments Q500 TGA. All experiments were performed using a ramp rate of 10 C. minute and heated up to 600 C. All experiments were performed under nitrogen.

Three types of polyolefin elastomer systems were prepared to be incorporated with boron cage compounds BCC uncured poly ethylene co vinyl acetate EVA uncured poly ethylene co vinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol EVA OH and poly ethylene co vinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol cured with diphenyl 4 4 methylenebis phenylcarbamate cured EVA OH via a urethane type reaction.

The EVA polymer matrix having a composition of 42 vinyl acetate and 58 ethylene was prepared by dissolving two EVA copolymers in toluene followed by precipitation in methanol. The EVA polymer matrix had the following structure 

The precipitated EVA blend was vacuum dried at 100 C. until solid sheets were formed and all of the solvents were removed. A formulation of 19 parts by weight EVATANE 33 400 33 vinyl acetate and 67 ethylene available from Arkema Inc. and 81 parts by weight LEVAMELT 456 44 vinyl acetate and 56 ethylene available from Lanxess Corp. was used to obtain the EVA copolymer. The compositions of the individual EVAs and the 42 EVA blend were confirmed by titration complete saponification with a known amount of base followed by back titration with hydrochloric acid solution to determine the amount of base remaining and proton nuclear magnetic resonance H NMR methods. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.7 5.0 CH C 1.9 2.2 CH 1.4 1.9 C CH 0.7 1.4 C C .

The EVA OH polymer matrix was prepared by a base catalyzed alcoholysis reaction of the EVA blend whose preparation is described immediately above . To prepare the EVA OH matrix 100 parts by weight of the EVA polymer were dissolved in a solution of 250 parts by weight toluene 45.4 parts by weight methanol and 45.4 parts by weight ethanol. 4.62 parts by weight of 0.44 N alcoholic KOH solution equal parts methanol and ethanol were added to the solution causing partial alcoholysis. A small percentage of the acetate groups of the EVA were converted into alcohol groups to form EVA OH as follows 

Next 1.0 N methanolic HCl solution was added to the solution to neutralize and stop the reaction. The reaction was performed at a temperature of 37.8 C. with a reaction time of 108 minutes. Following reaction the final product was precipitated in methanol and dried under vacuum at 100 C. The final EVA OH terpolymer had a composition of 58 ethylene 36 vinyl acetate and 6 vinyl alcohol confirmed by titration and NMR methods. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.5 4.0 OH 1.9 2.2 CH 1.4 1.9 C CH 0.7 1.4 C C .

The cured EVA OH polymer matrix was prepared by reacting hydroxyl groups on the vinyl alcohol monomers of the EVA OH polymer with a phenol blocked diisocyanate to form a cross linked polymer network. The phenol blocked diisocyanate diphenyl 4 4 methylene bis phenylcarbamate DP MDI was prepared by reacting phenol with methylene bis 4 phenyl isocyanatate MDI in the presence of an amine catalyst N N N N tetramethyl 1 3 butanediamine at room temperature. A 2 L glass reactor was charged with 1 200 g of toluene 2.8 g of N N N N tetramethyl 1 3 butanediamine 19.4 mmol and 119.5 g of phenol 1.7 mol . The reactants were melted at 43.3 C. While vigorously stirring the resulting mixture MDI 140.5 g 0.56 mol dissolved in toluene 61.1 g was slowly dripped into the 2 L reaction vessel. The reaction was stirred for 1 hour and the final product a white powder was filtered washed with toluene and dried under vacuum at 85 C. The DP MDI curing agent was characterized by gel permeation chromatography 97.2 purity differential scanning calorimetry nadir melt peak 200.1 C. and thermogravimetric analysis 96.3 step transition with onset at 231.2 C. end at 263.5 C. and at 275 C. wt equal 4.9 and H NMR 400 MHz THF d 9.10 s N 3.87 s C 7.0 7.5 aromatic protons .

Four different boron cage compounds were prepared to be combined in various fashion with the above described polymer matrices. The boron cage compounds included n hexyl carborane 1 3 di o carboranylpropane tethered carborane 1 2 bis hydroxymethyl o carborane carborane diol and dilithium dodecahydrododecaborate Li BH . Note that the terms carborane and o carborane as used in the Examples described herein are intended to denote 1 2 closo dicarbadodecaborane CBH . As used elsewhere such as the Detailed Description and the Claims included herein the term carborane as defined above shall denote a chemical compound consisting of boron hydrogen and carbon atoms exclusive of any pendant group atoms.

The n hexyl carborane was prepared as follows. 105 g of decaborane 1.7 mol was dissolved in 4 L of toluene in a 12 L reaction vessel equipped with a magnetic stir bar and heating mantle. 1 L of acetonitrile was added slowly using an addition funnel. A water condenser was placed in the reaction vessel and the mixture was heated at reflux overnight. 187.3 g of 1 octyne 1.7 mol was dissolved in 2 L of toluene and this solution was added slowly to the stirring reaction at room temperature. The reaction was when refluxed for three days and then allowed to cool to room temperature. Solvent was removed in vacuo to give a dark brown oil which was extracted with ether and washed with water. The ether was removed in vacuo and the resulting oil was dissolved in dichloromethane 1 L . The solution was washed three times with 100 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid followed by five 500 mL volumes of 1 1 water saturated brine. The resulting tan colored organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate which was removed by filtration. The solvent was removed in vacuo to produce a rose colored viscous oil 221 g 56.9 crude yield . Purification of the desired product was achieved through vacuum distillation using a high vacuum line equipped with a diffusion pump. The impure product was heated using an oil bath and product distilled with an oil temperature of 135 C. The clear colorless and viscous product was collected 198 g 51 yield density 0.88 g mL and analyzed.

The resulting purified n hexyl carborane had the following properties H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 3.67 s 1H cage C H 2.21 t 3H CH 1.45 m 2H CH 1.24 m 6H CH 0.82 t 3H CH . Note that the B H protons are not resolved which are typically and characteristically observed as a broad band between 2.90 and 1.60 ppm. CH NMR 125 MHz CDCl 75.82 BC 61.22 BC H 37.92 31.44 29.08 28.45 22.37 13.63 CHCHCHCHCHCH . BH NMR 160 MHz CDCl 2.71 1B 6.16 1B 9.57 2B 11.42 2B 12.16 2B 13.22 2B . Mass spectroscopy APCI M 100 m z calculated for CHB 228.11. found 228.11.

A solution of 1 3 bis silyl o carboranyl propane 2.5 g 4.5 mmol in a dry tetrahydrofuran THF was cooled to 76 C. and 1.0 M solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride in THF 9.2 mL 9.2 mmol was added dropwise with stirring. The mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes while being warmed to room temperature and then 20 mL of water was added. The solution was diluted with 100 mL of diethyl ether and transferred to a separatory funnel. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional diethyl ether 2 100 mL . The combined extracts were dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The tethered carborane product was isolated as a white solid in 77.3 yield 1.14 g 3.48 mmol by column chromatography flash silica gel using hexane ethyl acrylate 3 1 as the eluent.

The resulting tethered carborane had the following properties mass spectroscopy APCI M 100 m z calculated for CHB 328.52. found 328.4. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.652 1.756 2.132 2.255 and 3.500 3.643 ppm. CH NMR 125 MHz CDCl 73.59 61.27 36.82 28.64 ppm.

75 g of decaborane 1.2 mol was dissolved in 2 L of toluene in a 5 L reaction vessel equipped with a magnetic stir bar and heating mantle. 500 mL of acetonitrile was added slowly using an addition funnel. A water condenser was placed on the reaction vessel and the mixture was heated at reflux overnight. 204.2 g of 1 4 diacetoxy 2 butyne 1.2 mol was dissolved in toluene 500 mL and added slowly to the stirring reaction mixture at room temperature. The reaction was then refluxed for two days and allowed to cool to room temperature. The solvent was removed in vacuo. The obtained crude product 1 2 bis acetoxymethyl carborane was dissolved in 500 mL of dry methanol. This solution was heated to reflux and dry HCl gas was bubbled through the solution for 3 hours. The methanol and methyl acetate formed was removed by distillation leaving the crude product as white solid. 1 2 bis hydroxymethyl carborane a.k.a. carborane diol was purified through two successive recrystallizations by dissolving it in hot toluene 200 mL followed by filtration while hot. The filtrate was placed in a refrigerator and allowed to crystallize overnight. The product was filtered and washed with cold toluene and pentane 129.9 g 53.1 yield .

The resulting purified carborane diol was analyzed and had the following properties H NMR 500 MHz CDCO 5.19 t 2H OH 4.22 d 4H CH . Note that the B H protons are not resolved which are typically and characteristically observed as a broad band between 2.90 and 1.60 ppm. CH NMR 125 MHz CDCl 82.3 BC 64.5 CH . BH NMR 160.4 MHz CDCl 2.95 2B 9.68 2B 10.26 2B 10.67 4B . Mass spectroscopy APCI M 100 m z calculated for CHB 206.208. found 206.211.

In preparing the dilithium dodecahydrododecaborate lithium hydroxide and BIO RAD AG 50W X8 100 200 mesh ion exchange resin were purchased from Aldrich and Fisher Chemicals and used as received. Ion exchange resin Bio Rad AG 50W X8 100 200 mesh was used to convert K BH to Li BH as follows in a 2 000 mL column 800 mL of acid form resin was washed with ion free water until a pH of 7.0 was obtained. A solution of 5 lithium hydroxide was passed over the column until a pH of 12 was reached. The resin was washed with ion free water until a pH of 7.0 was reached and then an aqueous solution of 50 g of K BH was passed through the column. The water was removed via rotary evaporator. The remaining trace of water was removed by lyophilization from the resulting white solid of dilithium dodecahydrododecaborate. Yield 35.1 grams 99 . BH NMR 160.4 MHz HO 15.4 s 12B .

The following method was employed in preparing each of the nanocomposites described below. EVA or EVA OH was dissolved in 200 mL of THF in a stirred Erlenmeyer flask. In a separate container the boron cage compound was dissolved in THF and added to the flask. If the sample was to be cured diphenyl 4 4 methylene bis phenylcarbamate DP MDI was also dissolved in THF and then added to the flask. Typically 9 parts by weight DP MDI was added per 100 parts by weight EVA OH. The entire solution was allowed to stir until homogenous. The solution was poured into a pan with a TEFLON liner and allowed to air dry. Once the majority of the THF had evaporated and the sample was solid the resulting film was then heated in a convection oven at 70 C. for three hours to remove any residual THF. The samples were then pressed into sheets at 100 C. in molds into 50.8 mm 50.8 mm squares nominally 3.2 3.3 mm thick. If it was a cured sample the temperature was raised to 180 C. to react the DP MDI with the EVA OH and cross link the elastomer. Cured samples were then post cured at 130 C. in a convection oven for three hours to remove the phenol byproduct unless otherwise stated .

Nanocomposite samples were prepared with n hexyl carborane in EVA EVA OH and cured EVA OH matrix systems. Using the above described dissolution method 5 10 and 25 n hexyl carborane as prepared in Example 2 was incorporated into uncured EVA OH. Into uncured EVA 10 n hexyl carborane was added Sample ID NHC 6 . For the cured EVA OH system 1 2 5 10 25 and 50 n hexyl carborane samples were prepared by this method. It should be noted that n hexyl carborane is volatile and care must be taken during the initial bake out to remove the THF and also the post cure to remove the phenol to not evaporate the n hexyl carborane out of the sample. To verify the n hexyl carborane concentrations in the samples the total boron contents of the samples were determined. The samples were digested by acids followed by analysis using Inductively Coupled Argon Plasma Spectrometry performed on a Thermo Elemental Iris Intrepid. The measured results compared to the initial contents are shown in Table 1 below. The EVA OH uncured samples loaded with 5 10 and 25 n hexyl carborane Sample IDs NHC 2 NHC 3 and NHC 4 respectively were determined to have 5.3 10.2 and 26.4 n hexyl carborane contents showing generally good agreement with the target compositions. Thus the bake out procedure used to remove the THF 70 C. for 3 hours does not seem detrimental to the composition for n hexyl carborane samples. However the cured EVA OH sample sets require additional bake out process to remove phenol post cure . Samples were prepared with 1 2 5 10 and 25 n hexyl carborane in EVA OH Sample IDs NHC 8 NHC 9 NHC 10 NHC 11 and NHC 12 respectively cured with DP MDI at 180 C. and post cured at 130 C. for 3 hours. The cured samples were also tested for total boron content and shown in Table 1 which reveals that the higher temperatures did cause a decrease in the n hexyl carborane content in the samples. This effect was especially evident at higher loadings. After bake out the 25 sample had only 8.9 n hexyl carborane left. Therefore two additional samples of 25 n hexyl carborane in cured EVA OH Sample IDs NHC 13 and NHC 14 were prepared and post cured in a static oven at 160 C. and 130 C. respectively. The sample cured at 160 C. NHC 13 was determined to have an n hexyl carborane content of 15.2 and the sample post cured at 130 C. NHC 14 was found to have 21.6 remaining. A final sample was prepared with a target concentration of 50 n hexyl carborane in cured EVA OH Sample ID NHC 15 and cured using the 130 C. static oven post cure method. It was found to have 43.5 n hexyl carborane remaining.

The storage modulus and loss modulus from the AR G2 rheology test were plotted as a function of temperature of the above described n hexyl carborane nanocomposites prepared in uncured EVA OH. Both storage and loss moduli decreased with increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane. The transition region from a rubbery material to a glassy state for these systems begins at 15 to 35 C. the n hexyl carborane shifted this transition to lower temperatures pointing to lower glass transition temperatures Tg . Typically the peak maximum of a tan G G as a function of temperature plot is identified as the Tg and for the n hexyl carborane in uncured EVA OH systems which is plotted in . As can be seen in the Tg shifts to the left i.e. decreases with increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane. This trend indicates that the n hexyl carborane acts as a plasticizing filler in the nanocomposite.

Uncured EVA with 10 n hexyl carborane Sample ID NHC 6 was evaluated to determine if there was any difference between the interaction with a different modified polymer matrix i.e. EVA versus EVA OH . The tan plot as a function of temperature for uncured EVA samples is shown in . Again the n hexyl carborane decreased the Tg for uncured EVA. For EVA and EVA OH there were actually two thermal transitions which likely occurred because of the two different monomers present. The lower temperature transition could have been due to the polyethylene segments and for the EVA OH occurred at 21.6 C. and at 23.7 C. for EVA as shown in the tan plots of respectively. The other transition was likely primarily due to the vinyl acetate segments and occurred around 45 C. not shown .

The above described. RPA2000 rheometer was used to obtain the melt viscosity of uncured EVA Samples NHC 5 and 6 and EVA OH Samples NHC 1 to 4 n hexyl carborane nanocomposites at elevated temperatures when the nanocomposite samples were completely melted. The melt viscosity was determined as a function of percent n hexyl carborane for uncured EVA and EVA OH. The melt viscosity was determined at 121 C. and correlates to the typical mold temperature for parts made from EVA or EVA OH. Both EVA and EVA OH showed a decrease in melt viscosity with increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane.

Cured and post cured samples of n hexyl carborane in EVA OH Sample IDs NHC 7 to 15 were tested by the AR G2 rheology test. As observed with the uncured samples the storage modulus decreased with increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane. shows the tan plots for the cured EVA OH samples. Since these samples are cured the temperature sweeps include higher temperatures and both thermal transitions are seen. Although the transition associated with the vinyl acetate monomers was a much smaller peak both thermal transitions show a decrease with increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane.

The primary tan maximum peaks were plotted for the uncured EVA OH Samples NHC 1 to 4 uncured EVA Samples NHC 5 and 6 and cured EVA OH Samples NHC 7 to 15 nanocomposite samples. That plot showed the glass transition temperatures for n hexyl carborane samples decreased for all three polymer systems at about the same degree. All three had similar slopes and decreases in glass transitions. There was a slight difference in the initial Tg starting point at 0 n hexyl carborane for the three polymer systems. The uncured EVA OH has a slightly higher Tg 21.6 C. than the uncured EVA 23.7 C. and could possibly be explained by potential hydrogen bonding between hydroxyl groups which limits the rotational freedom of the EVA OH polymer chain. Further restriction of the rotational freedom of the EVA OH occurs when the system is cured and again the Tg was higher 15.5 C. for the cured EVA OH. The smaller secondary thermal transition due to the vinyl acetate segments was not plotted in a similar manner since the peak is smaller and more difficult to determine the peak position. The 43.5 n hexyl carborane in cured EVA OH Sample NHC 15 clearly showed a decrease in the maximum for this secondary transition from the baseline sample 26.6 C. versus 32.2 C. but the change was much smaller than that found for the primary transition. Finally these results again show that n hexyl carborane plasticizes uncured EVA OH uncured EVA and cured EVA OH polymer matrices.

DSC and TGA were used to further evaluate thermal behavior of Samples NHC 1 to 15. n Hexyl carborane has a thermal transition at 92 C. however none of the DSC curves for the n hexyl carborane nanocomposite samples exhibited a thermal transition in this region. The DSC data agreed with the rheology data showing lower glass transition temperatures and plasticization. The peak around 45 C. due to vinyl acetate segments did not appear to change even at high n hexyl carborane contents. The addition of n hexyl carborane did not improve the thermal stability of the samples upon analysis by TGA. Lower T T and Ttemperatures were found with increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane. It should be noted that T is a convention used to note the temperature at which a certain weight percent of a given sample which is being tested by TGA has been lost to volatilization. Thus for example T T and Tare the temperatures where 5 weight percent 10 weight percent and 25 weight percent of the initial sample weight has been volatilized respectively.

Using the dissolution method described in Example 3 above 0 1 5 10 and 25 tethered carborane as prepared in Example 2 was loaded into uncured EVA OH Sample IDs TC 1 TC 2 TC 3 TC 4 and TC 5 respectively . Additionally 0 and 10 tethered carborane was incorporated into uncured EVA Sample IDs TC 6 and TC 7 . For the EVA OH system 0 5 and 10 tethered carborane samples Sample IDs TC 8 TC 9 and TC 10 were prepared. The total boron contents were confirmed on select samples and the volatility associated with n hexyl carborane described above was not found for tethered carborane. In the uncured EVA OH tethered carborane nanocomposites the samples prepared containing up to 10 tethered carborane remained clear. However at 25 tethered carborane the resulting sample was opaque and white in color. This indicates that the solubility of the tethered carborane reaches a saturation point somewhere between 10 and 25 and some tethered carborane had phase separated out.

The storage and loss moduli were determined by AR G2 rheology test for the tethered carborane in uncured EVA Oil nanocomposites Sample IDs TC 1 to TC 5 . The storage and loss moduli increased or decreased depending on the amount of tethered carborane present and the temperature region. From 10 C. to 30 C. the 1 5 and 10 tethered carborane nanocomposites Samples TC 2 TC 3 and TC 4 showed lower storage and loss modulus values than the baseline uncured EVA OH Sample TC 1 . Conversely the 25 tethered carborane nanocomposite Sample TC 5 had higher modulus values over this same temperature region. The tethered carborane shifted the transition from rubbery to glassy state to higher temperatures. Thus at lower temperatures 15 to 35 C. the storage and loss modulus values were higher with increasing tethered carborane contents.

The melt viscosities as a function of tethered carborane content for uncured EVA Samples TC 6 and TC 7 and EVA OH Samples TC 1 to 5 were plotted. These plots reflected the trends observed in the storage and loss modulus data from the AR G2 test. Up to 10 tethered carborane softer samples were found and likewise lower melt viscosities were found from 1 to 10 tethered carborane. The melt viscosity then went back up with 25 tethered carborane again similar to the storage and loss modulus . It was not clear why the storage and loss moduli increased between 10 and 25 . Though not wishing to be bound by theory one possible explanation is that the insoluble tethered carborane in the system was behaving like a normal traditional filler. The insoluble tethered carborane present in this sample may have caused macroscopic filler reinforcement resulting in higher melt viscosities and higher storage and loss moduli but it may have had no further effect the glass transition temperature.

Cured and post cured samples of tethered carborane in EVA OH were tested by the AR G2 rheology test. The primary tan peak increased and the smaller secondary peak slightly decreased with increasing tethered carborane contents in the cured EVA OH system.

The primary tan peaks for the uncured EVA OH Samples TC 1 to 5 uncured EVA Samples TC 6 and 7 and cured EVA OH Samples TC 8 to 10 were plotted as a function of tethered carborane and compared. These plots showed the glass transition temperatures for tethered carborane samples increased for all three polymer systems up to 10 tethered carborane after which it plateaued for the uncured EVA OH samples with higher loading. In addition all three polymer systems had similar slopes at least up to 10 . While the increase in glass transition temperatures is normally indicative of reinforcement by the tethered carborane this result is countered by the observed lower storage modulus lower loss modulus and decreased melt viscosity which are normally observed with plasticized systems. Thus depending on the temperature region and definition used the tethered carborane both reinforced and plasticized EVA and EVA OH.

DSC curves for the first heat cycle of tethered carborane samples in uncured EVA OH were prepared. The onset for the 5 10 and 25 tethered carborane Samples TC 3 TC 4 and TC 5 respectively were clearly increased over the baseline EVA OH. It appears that TC 4 and TC 5 had similar shifts in onset reflecting what was observed in the AR G2 rheology data. The vinyl acetate peaks at 45 C. appear unchanged with the presence of tethered carborane. The 25 tethered carborane in EVA OH sample TC 5 had an additional peak at 94.1 C. which is consistent with the melting point of tethered carborane at 92.4 C. This result confirmed the visual inspection of the sample which was opaque white indicating some level of insolubility was present. Once the saturation point had been reached the sample showed a melting peak due to tethered carborane phase separation. The TGA data showed that the tethered carborane did not improve the thermal stability of the samples. Lower T T and Ttemperatures were found with increasing amounts of tethered carborane although the effect was less pronounced than observed with the n hexyl carborane samples described above.

Using the dissolution method described in Example 3 above 0 1 5 10 and 25 carborane diol as prepared in Example 2 was incorporated into uncured EVA OH Sample IDs CD 1 CD 2 CD 3 CD 4 and CD 5 respectively and 0 and 10 of carborane diol was incorporated into uncured EVA Sample IDs CD 6 and CD 7 . Visual inspection of the carborane diol samples revealed clear samples with no opacity up to the 25 loadings indicating that the carborane diol is miscible with EVA OH and EVA at these levels. Carborane diol is a white solid with a melt temperature of 79.6 C.

The storage and loss moduli from the AR G2 rheology test were plotted for carborane diol in uncured EVA OH. As found with the tethered carborane system the storage and loss moduli increased or decreased depending on the amount of carborane diol present and the temperature region. From room temperature to the Tg temperature region the samples with carborane diol were softer as demonstrated by lower storage and loss moduli than the baseline uncured EVA OH sample. The carborane diol samples also displayed a small shift in the glass transition temperature with increasing carborane diol contents however this effect was much smaller than observed with the tethered carborane. This shift was more easily seen in the tan 6 plot . As seen in peak maximums in the tan plots stay about the same or shift slightly to the right with increasing carborane diol contents. Without vinyl alcohol segments incorporation into EVA had even less of an effect on the Tg when 10 carborane diol is introduced.

The melt viscosity of the carborane diol in uncured EVA OH and EVA was determined. The results of the melt viscosity determination reflected the trends observed in the storage and loss modulus data from the AR G2 test the melt viscosity consistently decreased with increasing carborane diol contents.

The primary tan maximum for the uncured EVA OH and uncured EVA were plotted and compared as a function of carborane diol. The carborane diol showed no change in the glass transition temperature in uncured EVA and exhibited a slight increase in uncured EVA OH. These shifts in glass transition temperatures for carborane diol in uncured EVA OH were less than observed for the tethered carborane. This result is surprising since the carborane diol has the potential of additional interaction from hydrogen bonding with the vinyl alcohol segments of the EVA OIL The carborane diol was more soluble than the tethered carborane illustrated by clear soluble samples up to 25 whereas the 25 tethered carborane sample was opaque and has some phase separation. While solubility would seem to be a prerequisite to be a good nanofiller soluble boron cage compounds are not always reinforcing as evidenced by the highly soluble n hexyl carborane. In carborane diol samples no change or a small increase in Tg indicates some reinforcement however like the tethered carborane system lower storage moduli loss moduli and melt viscosities were found which indicates plasticization. Hence the carborane diol system demonstrated evidence of both reinforcement and plasticization depending on the conditions.

Thermal data from DSC analysis for the carborane diol samples support the AR G2 rheology results. None of the carborane diol nanocomposite samples had a peak around 80 C. which is the melting point of carborane diol. This is not surprising since all of the carborane diol samples appeared soluble in EVA and EVA OH. The thermal stability was reduced with carborane diol present and showed lower T T and Ttemperatures with increasing amounts of carborane diol.

Using the dissolution method described in Example 3 above 0 1 2 5 10 and 25 Li BH as prepared in Example 2 was incorporated into uncured EVA OH Sample IDs LBH 1 LBH 2 LBH 3 LBH 4 LBH 5 and LBH 6 respectively . Additionally 0 and 10 of Li BH was incorporated into uncured EVA Sample IDs LBH 7 and LBH 8 respectively . For the cured EVA OH system 0 5 10 and 25 Li BH samples were prepared using the same method Sample IDs LBH 9 LBH 10 LBH 11 and LBH 12 respectively . During sample preparation Li BH was observed to rapidly absorb moisture out of the air. Initial samples were weighed on a scale in air and the measured weights increased considerably over time. Subsequent Li BH samples were weighed on a scale inside a glove box with low moisture levels. Some samples were dried further under vacuum at 100 C. overnight while others were tested immediately. Additional corresponding samples that underwent vacuum drying are designated with a V following the Sample ID and included LBH 1V LBH 2V LBH 3V LBH 4V LBH 5F LBH 6V LBH 9V and LBH 10V. Samples were stored in a desiccated environment.

Li BH is a white solid with a melting temperature of 131.1 C. In uncured EVA OH Li BH samples were less clear than other soluble BCC samples almost translucent. Up to 10 Li BH the samples were translucent in color and at higher loadings 25 were white and completely opaque. This effect would indicate some level of insolubility of Li BH at higher loadings as found in the tethered carborane system. Initially 5 10 and 25 Li BH was incorporated into EVA OH and cured with DP MDI. These samples had issues with incomplete curing and non uniformity bubbles . The source of the incomplete cure and bubbles was likely due to the moisture affinity of the Li BH . The moisture can react with the DP MDI curing agent releasing phenol limiting the reaction with EVA OH and lowering the crosslink density. The 10 Li BH cured sample was repeated after drying the material under vacuum at 100 C. This sample was improved and appeared to be more cured but still had a few bubbles present. It was very difficult to eliminate all of the moisture present in the Li BH .

In the three BCC systems discussed above the BCCs have either decreased glass transition temperatures plasticization with n hexyl carborane or only slightly increased the glass transition temperatures tethered carborane and carborane diol but generally softer materials were found at higher temperatures. Large shifts in Tg increased mechanical strength and increased thermal stability are often found in polymers reinforced with a nanofiller. Finally the case of a boron cage compound reinforcing a polymer will be presented in the Li BH system.

Samples of Li BH in uncured EVA OH were dried under vacuum at 100 C. and tested immediately by the AR G2 rheology test. From this analysis the storage modulus plots are shown in and loss modulus plots in . In these two plots the increase in storage and loss modulus upon incorporation of Li BH is clearly seen and is substantial. The Li BH samples were much stiffer even allowing higher initial temperatures to be used during the rheology test. Even though they are uncured the reinforced Li BH samples did not deform under the 5 N of force applied during testing. It should be noted that the Li BH samples prepared by the normal procedure not vacuum dried also exhibited large increases in storage and loss modulus.

The tan plots of Li BH in uncured EVA OH vacuum dried are shown in . The glass transition temperatures for these samples increased dramatically shifting to the right with increasing Li BH contents. However it is difficult to pick the exact position of the glass transition temperature for these plots. The 25 Li BH sample LBH 6 has a fairly broad tan peak with a main peak around 91 C. and a shoulder around 75 C. EVA OH and EVA have two transitions one due to polyethylene and the other to vinyl acetate segments. With LBH 6 it appears the two peaks were overlapping making it impossible to determine which was which by this analysis alone. It also looks as if the Li BH reinforced both types of segments as both Tgs were higher than the baseline EVA OH. The Li BH also impacted uncured EVA in a similar fashion increased storage modulus increased loss modulus and increased glass transition temperature.

The melt viscosity as a function of Li BH content was plotted for uncured EVA and EVA OH. These samples were not dried further under vacuum but were tested immediately after the 70 C. per 3 hour bake out. In EVA OH the melt viscosity increased up to 10 Li BH LBH 5 and then plateaued with only a small increase observed in the 25 sample LBH 6 over the 10 sample LBH 5 . The uncured EVA sample LBH 8 had a slightly lower melt viscosity verses its EVA OH counterpart LBH 5 however it still increased substantially. demonstrates how the melt viscosities of the Li BH samples in uncured EVA OH compared to the other boron cage compounds in uncured EVA OH described in Examples 3 4 and 5 above. As can be seen in the other BCCs decreased the melt viscosity of the nanocomposite while the Li BH increased it and reinforced the polymer matrix even when melted.

The peak maximums from Li BH tan plots were plotted and compared for uncured EVA Samples LBH 7 and 8 uncured EVA OH Samples LBH 1 to 6 vacuum dried uncured EVA OH Samples LBH 1V to 6V and vacuum dried cured EVA OH Samples LBH 9V and 10V systems. The curves for the uncured EVA and EVA OH samples not vacuum dried resembled the trends from the melt viscosity test. Again the Tg increased up to 10 and then plateaued and only slightly increased when the content was increased to 25 for the uncured EVA OH samples. The Tg from the uncured EVA sample increased but was slightly lower than its uncured EVA OH equivalent. The 10 Li BH in cured EVA OH sample that was dried further under vacuum had two peaks approximately the same size one at 34.5 C. and the other at 73.5 C. The more conservative 34.5 C. was plotted and showed an increase in Tg with a similar slope as the other Li BH plots. Uncured EVA OH samples that were vacuum dried continued to show an increase in Tg with addition of Li BH . This sample set did not show the plateau between 10 and 25 Li BH as observed with data for samples not vacuum dried melt viscosity and Tg . It also looks as if the vacuum drying had the biggest impact on the 25 Li BH sample. The extraordinary properties made possible by incorporation of BCC nanofillers are highlighted by the 102.5 C. increase in glass transition temperature found in this sample.

Differential scanning calorimetry was used to further evaluate thermal behavior of Li BH . The 10 and 25 Li BH samples in uncured EVA OH not vacuum dried LBH 5 and 6 respectively exhibited large increases in the onset temperature over the baseline EVA OH. Surprisingly the vinyl acetate peaks for these DSC curves appeared unchanged even though a large change in mechanical properties was observed above this temperature. Like the 25 tethered carborane sample discussed above which was also white indicating some level of insolubility the 25 Li BH sample LBH 6 showed a peak in the same position as the melting point of the Li BH around 131 C. The DSC curves for the vacuum dried samples LBH 5V and 6V showed some differences from those that did not have the additional drying. The onset temperatures were shifted to even higher temperatures which was most noticeable with the vacuum dried 25 Li BH sample LBH 6V . The Li BH melting peak around 131 C. was not found for this sample however it may have been simply masked by the other transition that was overlapping in that temperature region.

Thermogravimetric analysis TGA was used to evaluate the thermal stability of these nanocomposites. Decomposition curves for Li BH uncured EVA OH Sample LBH 1V and Li BH nanocomposite samples in uncured EVA OH vacuum dried Samples LBH 2V to 6V were prepared. The 100 Li BH TGA curve showed approximately 20 weight percent degradation around 100 C. and although not confirmed was most likely due to moisture absorbed by the Li BH . There is a second degradation from 190 to 250 C. which caused another 26 weight percent to be lost. At higher temperatures the Li BH material was very thermally stable and did not exhibit additional degradation.

EVA OH had two main thermal degradations. The first occurred at 315 C. and was known to be due to thermal scission of the acetate group resulting in acetic acid evolution. A second degradation occurred at 420 C. and can be ascribed to the degradation of the resulting hydrocarbon backbone left behind.

For the Li BH nanocomposite samples the presence of Li BH initially decreased the thermal stability and lower Ttemperatures were found. These lower initial thermal stabilities may have been due to the two degradations observed for the 100 Li BH sample. However the degradations for the Li BH nanocomposites occurred at higher temperatures and had shapes and degradation temperatures that were more like the virgin uncured EVA OH decomposition profile. Only in the decomposition profile of the 25 Li BH sample does this seem likely. Another possibility is that the Li BH promoted the loss of acetic acid. Costache et al. 2005 and Lee et al. 2007 reported a similar trend for EVA clay nanocomposites. In EVA the loss of acetic acid in the first degradation was catalyzed by the presence of the nanoclay. In EVA clay nanocomposites the remaining polymer backbone had additional thermal stability. Costache et al. postulated that when multiple degradation pathways were present one pathway can be promoted at the expense of the other when clay is present. Similarly for the Li BH system the thermal stabilities were enhanced with increasing Li BH contents at higher temperatures. The Ttemperatures for the 1 2 5 and 10 Li BH samples were only slightly lower than the EVA OH baseline material and the 25 sample has a higher Ttemperature. The Ttemperature appears to be the changeover point of improved thermal stability of EVA OH by Li BH . The Ttemperatures for all of the Li BH samples were higher than the baseline material. This trend continued at higher degradations and higher temperatures.

In the following Examples 7 13 nanocomposite test samples were subject to various characterization testing. The following procedures were employed.

Rheology testing for Examples 7 13 was performed on a TA Aries 2000 or AR G2 rheometer under torsion between 25 mm parallel plates. As much as possible disks diameter 11 mm by 3.6 mm of uniform size were used as samples. Samples that were thicker than 3.6 mm were sanded with an ultra fine grit sand paper. All samples were subjected to a temperature sweep from low to high temperatures at strains of 0.1 or 0.05 and a frequency of 1 Hz. All experiments were performed under normal force control at 5.0 N with a 0.5 N tolerance gap 500 000 nm . The temperature range varied depending on the locations of the expected transitions but a 5 20 minute equilibration time was used once a sample reached the minimum temperature. A temperature ramp rate of 3 C. minute was used.

Differential Scanning Calorimetry was performed using a TA Q2000 instrument. All experiments were carried out on samples weighing between 8 mg and 18 mg using aluminum pans using an identical yet empty pan as a reference over the desired temperature range.

Thermogravimetric analysis was performed on clean Pt pans using a TA Q1000 instrument. Some carborane samples were tested using clean ceramic pans. All experiments were performed using a ramp rate of 10 C. minute over the desired temperature range. All experiments where performed under nitrogen. Samples that contained carborane all exhibited significant amounts of a voluminous and porous black ash which could not be cleaned away by burning in a high temperature muffle furnace. Many of these samples had more weight as a percentage of their starting weight than could be accounted for in just boron.

Dynamic Mechanical Analyzer analysis was performed using a TA Q800 instrument. Experiments were performed on disks of uniform size diameter 11 mm by 3.6 mm at a set temperature of 0 C. Tests were performed on the disks in compression mode using controlled force. Four cycles where measured for each sample. Each cycle consisted of compressing the sample to 18 N followed by releasing the sample to 0.1 N both at a rate of 3 N minute.

The Shore A hardness of samples was measured using an Instron Shore A Hardness tester model 902 Automatic Operating Stand . Between 3 and 5 or more separate measurements were taken on each sample. For very soft samples for which the Shore A Hardness value continuously dropped no value was recorded.

Microscopic images were taken using an LEO1455 VP Scanning Electron Microscope at 25 and 30 Kv energies in the variable pressure mode which allows imaging of insulator materials without requiring the application of a conductive coating on the surface. The backscattered imaging detector was used to provide visual details of surface features and element differences that may be present in the material.

A commercially available epoxy polymer supplied by Epoxies Etc. was employed as a polymer matrix in various examples below. This epoxy is an optically clear two part material comprising a resin with an epoxy equivalent weight EEW of 230. The resin is 80 weight percent bisphenol A diglycidyl ether BADGE 2.5 to 10 weight percent 4 nonylphenol branched 

The model epoxy formulation which was clear but slightly colored comprised a resin based on EPON 828 available from Hexion Specialty Chemicals Inc. EEW 185 192 . EPON 828 is a low molecular weight epoxide resin of BADGE. The curative employed with this epoxy was EPIKURE 3270 available from Hexion Specialty Chemicals Inc. which is a modified aliphatic amine comprising primarily 4 nonylphenol some 1 aminoethyl piperazine and small amounts of diethylenetriamine DETA or triethylenetetramine TETA .

EN8 is a two part polyurethane comprising part A and part B which is clear and orange colored. The orange color is caused by the Fe III acetylacetonate catalyst which is present at the ppm level. Part A contains 88 90 weight percent of a toluenediisocyanate TDI end capped polybutadiene and 10 12 weight percent TDI. Part B is 50 weight percent bis 2 hydroxypropyl aniline BHPA 50 weight percent 2 ethyl 1 3 hexane diol EHD and the catalyst.

Three different boron cage compounds were prepared to be combined in various fashion with the above described epoxy or urethane polymer matrices. The boron cage compounds included n hexyl carborane 1 2 dicarba closo dodecaboran 1 2 1 yl methyl oxirane carborane epoxy and 1 2 bis hydroxymethyl o carborane carborane diol .

Silyl o carborane 3 silyl o carboranyl 1 propene 3 o carboranyl 1 propene and CFCOH were prepared by procedures known in the art n Butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexane tetrabutylammonium fluoride tert butyldimethylchlorosilane TBDMS allyl bromide trifluoroacetic anhydride HO and epichlorohydrin were purchased from Aldrich and Fisher chemicals and each was used as received. Experiments were performed under an argon atmosphere in a Vacuum Atmospheres Corporation VAC dry box or on a Schlenk line with dried and de aerated solvents. NMR spectra were recorded on Bruker AMX 250 300 and 500 spectrometers at ambient probe temperatures. Shills are given in parts per million ppm with positive values to higher frequency of TMS H and C external BF.OEt B . B NMR spectra were recorded in proton decoupled mode. Assignments were based on DEPT experiment and comparisons to similar complexes. Two different methods were employed for preparing the carborane epoxy Method A and Method B.

In Method A a solution of 3 o carboranyl 1 propene 500 mg 2.71 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was added at 0 C. to a stirred solution of peroxytrifluoroacetic acid 4.23 mg 3.26 mmol . The mixture was continuously stirred for 24 h and then filtered via cannula. A yellow liquid was obtained by removal of solvent under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica 50 ethyl acetate hexane afforded carborane epoxy 400 mg 74 yield .

In Method B to a solution of 1 2 dicarba closo dodecaborane 2.0 g 13.8 mmol in THF 30 mL at 0 C. was added drop wise with stirring to a 2.5 M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane 6.10 mL 15.2 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir for 30 minutes while being warmed to ambient temperature. The solution was cooled to 76 C. and epichlorohydrin 1.30 mL 16.6 mmol in THF 10 mL was added drop wise. Stirring was continued for 24 hours over which time the colorless solution became yellow. The resulting solution was quenched with 60 mL of HO and transferred to a separatory funnel and diluted with 100 mL of CHCl OEt. The resulting layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional CHCl 2 30 mL . The combined extracts were concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica 50 ethylacetate hexane afforded carborane epoxy as a white solid 2.4 g 87 yield .

Analysis of the carborane epoxy yielded the following H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 3.89 s C 1H 3.08 m C CHCCHO 1H 2.876 2.45 m C CCHCHO 2H 2.68 2.13 m C CHCHCO 2H 2.72 1.72 m 10H . CH NMR 125.7 MHz CDCl 72.9 H 60.9 CHCHCHO 50.0 C CHHCHO 46.9 C CHCHHO 41.5 C HCHCHO . BH NMR 160.4 MHz CDCl 2.26 d J 149.2 Hz 1B 5.58 d J 149.2 Hz 1B 9.45 d. 149.2 Hz 2B 11.27 d 3B 12.84 d J 174.9 Hz 3B .

The carboranes used to make the nanocomposites described herein were stored under nitrogen in a 40 C. freezer contained within an inert atmosphere glove box while not in use. The n hexyl carborane and carborane diol made herein remained at high purity. However by TGA the carborane epoxy appeared to degrade. The epoxy equivalent weight confirms that the carborane epoxy material degraded EEW ca. 200.277. found 230 and was not more than 87 percent pure. Degradation occurred sometime after it was made and characterized although there was no change in the material s physical appearance. Composites containing carborane epoxy described below were made prior to knowing that the material had degraded.

The TGA analyses of n hexyl carborane and carborane diol were indicative of a volatilized not decomposed or degraded material. In contrast the carborane epoxy and its decomposition products volatilized and or decomposed further over a broad range of temperatures. It is possible that the material reacted with itself in a variety of ways leading to the range of volatilization and or decomposition products and thereby temperatures observed. Although the material is monomeric with only one epoxide moiety oligomerization and polymerization are possible as well as dimerization.

As noted above the Epoxies Etc. epoxy is an optically clear two part material comprising a resin with an epoxy equivalent weight EEW of 230. The curative is an amine terminated polyether based on polypropylene oxide. In preparing the nanocomposite n hexyl carborane was mixed into the epoxide in three different ways. First the n hexyl carborane was mixed into the resin which was then thoroughly blended with the curative Resin mix protocol . Second n hexyl carborane was mixed with the curative and then blended with the resin Catalyst mix protocol . Finally the n hexyl carborane was added to the blended resin curative mixture Epoxy mix protocol . In all cases the mixtures were allowed to cure in small aluminum foil cups at room temperature for over 48 hours. Some materials were cured at elevated temperatures 100 C. for 1 hour. For comparison 50 weight percent composites were cured at room temperature and elevated temperatures 100 C. for 1 hour Table 2 . The resulting materials were homogeneous clear and colorless. As the n hexyl carborane content increased the materials become more elastomeric. The epoxy did not cure with 75 weight percent n hexyl carborane. The compositions and mix protocol employed for each sample prepared in this Example are provided in Table 2 below 

Regardless of how the n hexyl carborane was incorporated into the Epoxies Etc. matrix increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane plasticized the material as observed by the change in the glass transition temperature by DSC. All of the samples were cured at room temperature except for the 75 weight percent sample NHC EEE 13 which was oven cured for 1 hour at 100 C. The sample containing 75 weight percent n hexyl carborane was observed to have its Tg shifted lower by over 43 C. Even at room temperature this material had structural integrity was nearly optically clear and contained over 35 weight percent boron.

The method by which the n hexyl carborane was incorporated either first into the resin curative or a mixture of the two appears to have made little difference in the how the final material was plasticized according to DSC analysis. Curing the material at room temperature for longer periods of time or at elevated temperatures for shorter periods also made little difference. In all cases the glass transition temperatures dropped. Taken as a whole the relatively smooth drop in Tg across all of the data was consistent with little or no n hexyl carborane having volatilized.

Each of the n hexyl carborane nanocomposites were tested as outlined above for shore A hardness. The shore A hardness results indicated that the method by which the material was mixed caused subtle differences in the hardness of the final composite materials. The samples containing 10 weight percent n hexyl carborane all had shore A hardness values similar to the control. In this case when first mixed into either the catalyst or especially the resin the shore A hardness was greater than the control. The result of this test was repeatable but the cause is unknown. The rest of the samples become increasingly softer as n hexyl carborane was added which is consistent with the DSC data. In general when the n hexyl carborane was first mixed into the curative or catalyst a stiffer composite was created all else being equal.

According to thermogravimetric analysis the control Epoxies Etc. epoxy had the highest Ttemperature i.e. the temperature at which 5 weight percent of the sample has been volatilized . The presence of n hexyl carborane created two transitions the first between 150 C. and 250 C. and the second between 300 C. and 450 C. Despite universally lower Ttemperatures nearly 75 percent of the 10 weight percent composite remained at 375 C. In fact the final transitions of all of the materials were higher than the control. Compared to TGA analysis of the urethane composite with n hexyl carborane epoxy composites with n hexyl carborane appeared to be preferentially thermally stabilized at high temperatures.

As noted above the Model Epoxy formulation which is clear but slightly colored was based on EPON 828 resin and the curative EPIKURE 3270 which is a modified aliphatic amine. In this Example n hexyl carborane was mixed with the resin and curative which were all thoroughly blended. Prior to curing at 75 C. for over 1 hour small amounts of the material were poured into disk shaped RTV silicone molds diameter 11 mm by 3.6 mm . The resulting materials where homogeneous clear and pale yellow colored. The compositions and mix protocol employed for each sample prepared in this Example are provided in Table 3 below 

By rheology n hexyl carborane also clearly plasticizes the model epoxy based on EPON 828 and EPIKURE 3270. Like the Epoxies Etc. matrix discussed above the glass transition temperature of the model epoxy decreased with increasing n hexyl carborane as observed by the change in the tan . In the rheology plots not shown the areas under the tan peak for the 1 weight percent NHC ME 1 and 5 weight percent MHC ME 2 composites were also noticeably smaller than that of the control and composites with 10 weight percent n hexyl carborane or greater.

Unlike with the Epoxies Etc. matrix where only one transition was observed by DSC even at very high n hexyl carborane loadings in the model epoxy matrix two transitions were observed with the samples having 5 weight percent n hexyl carborane or more. The formation of a new peak or splitting of the existing peak is indicative of the formation of a separate material phase. The set of transitions both decreased with increasing n hexyl carborane loading when the tan peak maximum temperature was plotted as a function of carborane loading. Additionally one of the phases appeared to plateau at loadings above 45 weight percent.

By rheology n hexyl carborane clearly plasticized the model epoxy matrix. However the shore A hardness of composites with low loadings 1 to 10 weight percent were equal or slightly stiffer than the control. All of the samples with n hexyl carborane loadings greater than 25 weight percent were too soft to obtain shore A hardness data. The transition from stiff composites to those too soft to measure by shore A hardness occurred somewhere between materials with 10 and 25 weight percent n hexyl carborane. It was also at this loading level that the single Tg began to separate into two phases one with a much lower Tg. Though not wishing to be bound by theory it is thought that this phase separation may contribute to the softness of the composites with greater than 10 weight percent n hexyl carborane.

TGA analyses of the model epoxy composites containing n hexyl carborane show that the thermal stability of 1 weight percent Sample NHC ME 1 and 5 weight percent Sample NHC ME 2 composites were equal to or greater than the control. Even the Ttemperature of the 5 weight percent sample was higher than the control. The increased thermal stability of these composites was easily observed in the difference between the Ttemperature of the control 260 C. and that of the 5 weight percent material 340 C. which is approximately 80 C. higher. In contrast to composites based on the Epoxies Etc. matrix these samples all exhibited one transition. Multiple phases by rheology do not translate to the TGA results. Over all these composites had a slightly lower ultimate thermal stability compared to the Epoxies Etc. materials. At higher temperatures the Model epoxy composites were similar to those based on the Epoxies Etc. matrix in that they were significantly more stable than the n hexyl carborane composites based on EN8 polyurethane matrices.

As with the n hexyl carborane the carborane epoxy was mixed into the resin which was then blended with the curative. In this Example the carborane epoxy did not replace the EPON 828 epoxide but was rather added to it on a weight basis. After blending the samples were cured at 75 C. for 1 hour. Thereafter small amounts of the material were poured into RTV silicon molds diameter 11 mm by 3.6 mm . As the carborane epoxy content increased increased amounts of air appeared to be entrained in the material giving it a creamy foam like appearance. Upon curing these materials foamed significantly at higher carborane epoxy loadings. Samples with 25 weight percent and 45 weight percent carborane epoxy were remade and degassed in vacuo just after being mixed and prior to being cured. Degassing the samples significantly reduced foaming upon curing. These like the rest of the materials where rigid opaque and white. The compositions and mix protocol employed for each sample prepared in this Example are provided in Table 4 below 

Since carborane epoxy is monofunctional compared to BADGE which is difunctional carborane epoxy was not used as a replacement for BADGE in the formulations but was rather added to the control formulation on a weight basis. As noted above as the carborane epoxy content increased air appeared to be increasingly whipped into the material upon mixing. The carborane epoxy is an off white waxy solid at room temperature and pressure. These materials foamed when cured significantly at higher carborane epoxy loadings. Only the samples prepared with 10 weight percent carborane epoxy or less were acceptable for rheology. Samples with 25 and 45 weight percent carborane epoxy were remade only this time they were degassed in vacuo prior to curing. Degassing the samples significantly reduced foaming upon curing producing samples amenable to rheological testing. These additional samples like the rest of the materials were fully cured rigid opaque and white.

An examination of the tan peak maximums showed that after an initial drop in temperature of only 12 C. the Tgs leveled off and begin to increase. Ultimately at 45 weight percent carborane epoxy the Tg was nearly equal to that of the control and was higher than every other formulation. In general the primary Tg was relatively unaffected. At 45 weight percent a shoulder was observed on the low temperature side of the main transition at 35 C. Depending on the volume of this phase it might be expected to soften the composite.

As noted above it was discovered after preparing the carborane epoxy model epoxy polymers that the carborane epoxy had degraded to approximately 87 percent purity. This degradation may have resulted in the formation of decomposition products such as dimers and oligomers of the carborane epoxy. Thus it is unclear whether the initial plasticization was due to the reacted carborane epoxy tied into the matrix free unreacted carborane epoxy decomposition products or some combination thereof.

The shore A hardness values for the model epoxy control 1 5 and 10 weight percent samples Samples CE ME 1 to 3 and the remade and degassed 25 and 45 weight percent samples Samples CE ME 4 and 6 were all similar and relatively stiff all between about 78 A and 98 A . The 1 through 10 weight percent samples exhibited little change in hardness but the degassed 25 weight percent sample was actually stiffer than the control. Unlike with rheology the presence of foam might be expected to affect the shore A hardness results even for relatively rigid foams. Though not wishing to be bound by theory this may explain why the first three samples were softer than the control but were less stiff than the 25 weight percent sample which was degassed and was therefore less foam like. If true then the relatively high glass transition temperature for the 45 weight percent sample and the relatively high stiffness of both the degassed 25 and 45 weight percent samples may indicate reinforcement. Additionally the formation of a second lower Tg phase in the 45 weight percent sample may have caused that sample to be softer than what might otherwise be expected.

TGA analyses of the carborane epoxy model epoxy polymers showed that the Ttemperature for all the samples was lower than that of the control. The TGA data also showed a steady increase in the high temperature greater than 350 C. stability of the samples from 1 to 10 weight percent and a plateau as the carborane epoxy content increased to greater than 25 weight percent. In general this was an indication of the presence of increasing amounts of carborane and was due to at least in part the inorganic nature of carboranes. More material was left at 490 C. than can be explained based purely on the inorganic content of the carborane. This is especially true for the 25 weight percent sample. These composite materials appeared to follow the general trend that epoxies are preferentially stabilized at high temperatures compared to EN8 urethane discussed below.

As discussed above EN8 is a two part polyurethane consisting of a Part A and Part B which is clear and orange colored. Part A contains 88 to 90 weight percent of a toluenediisocyanate TDI end capped polybutadiene and 10 to 12 weight percent TDI. Part B is 50 weight percent bis 2 hydroxypropyl aniline BHPA 50 weight percent 2 ethyl 1 3 hexane diol EHD and the catalyst. n Hexyl carborane was first blended with Part A which was then blended with Part B. All materials were degassed in vacuo and small amounts of the material were poured into disk shaped RTV silicone molds diameter 11 mm by 3.6 mm . The composite materials were cured at 100 C. for 1 hour. The resulting materials were homogeneous clear and orange. The composites softened and become lighter colored orange with increasing n hexyl carborane loadings. A 75 weight percent n hexyl carborane formulation did not cure and remained a liquid mixture. The concentrations employed for each sample prepared in this Example are provided in Table 5 below 

As noted above EN8 urethane consists of two primary components a lightly cross linked soil and rubbery polybutadiene PBD phase Part A and a crystalline cross linked and rigid urethane phase Part B . This was apparent from two major glass transitions observed rheologically via tan . The lower temperature transition was associated with the PBD segments and the high temperature transition with those of the urethane. All of these composite materials were clear and homogeneous. They were also decreasingly orange colored as the catalyst was diluted by the addition of n hexyl carborane.

Closer examination of the lower temperature tan peaks of the PBD segments showed that in general this segment was reinforced by the addition of n hexyl carborane. Although the total change in the peak tan temperature was relatively small 15 to 17 C. it appeared to be increasing. The changes in storage modulus G Pa and loss modulus G Pa led to the same conclusion namely that addition of n hexyl carborane caused the PDB segments of EN8 urethane to be reinforced. Results from these analyses indicated increased storage and loss moduli values associated with increased n hexyl carborane content. It should be noted that there was some variation in the data and some of the data points were out of order. This variation in the data may have been caused by variation in the samples in particular variation in sample thickness.

In addition a new lower temperature tan peak formed after 10 weight percent n hexyl carborane had been added. This new peak also increased in temperature indicating reinforcement as the amount of n hexyl carborane increased. This was somewhat unexpected n hexyl carborane has been studied in conjugated diene elastomers including hydroxy terminated polybutadiene and has been found to be an effective plasticizer.

Depending on the volume a new phase within the PBD segments at a lower temperature even if it increases in temperature as more carborane is added could have a net effect on the physical properties of the material. All things being equal such materials for example might be expected to be softer than the control until such a loading is reached that the lowest temperature Tg is higher in temperature than that of the control. Again this would be dependent on the volume of the new phase being large enough. For the PBD segments this point was reached at 25 weight percent n hexyl carborane. At 35 weight percent the lowest Tg of the PBD segments was higher than that of the control. So compared to the control the PBD segments were reinforced.

With the urethane segments which have a higher temperature the effect of n hexyl carborane is much different. Initially two broad tan transitions were observed which steadily decreased in temperature as more n hexyl carborane was added. The Tg of the urethane segments moving to lower temperatures with increased n hexyl carborane content is consistent with plasticization. At about 45 weight percent and clearly at 50 weight percent n hexyl carborane a third tan transition was observed at very high temperatures. This peak also appeared to lower in temperature as the amount of n hexyl carborane increases.

As with the PBD segments but in reverse depending on the volume a new phase within the urethane segments at a higher temperature could also have a net effect on the physical properties of the material. If the new high Tg phase first formed at 45 weight percent n hexyl carborane was large enough it could cause the composite to be reinforced compared to the control. However the area of the highest Tg was smaller than that of main transition in the 45 and 50 weight percent composites which was at a significantly lower temperature.

When n hexyl carborane was added to EN8 urethane in general the PBD segments were reinforced. Conversely the urethane segments were plasticized. The global impact of these opposing effects on the physical properties of the composites can be seen in the Shore A Hardness data depicted in . As can be seen in the hardness of the nanocomposites decreased gradually with increasing n hexyl carborane. After more than about 35 weight percent has been added the composites became too soft for shore A testing. The relatively small increase in the Tg of the PBD segments was more than compensated for by the decrease in the Tg of the urethane portion of the materials. The shore A hardness of these samples was tracked as a way of determining if n hexyl carborane was volatilizing out of the materials over time. Some increase in stiffness was observed especially at high loadings which is what would be expected if n hexyl carborane had the net effect of plasticizing EN8 urethane. Additional testing even at high loading showed that the stiffness did not continue to increase but leveled off. It seems likely that a small initial loss of n hexyl carborane occurred especially at higher loadings in combination with a small amount of additional curing over time.

Another measure of the global physical properties of the n hexyl carborane EN8 urethane nanocomposites was made via DMA analysis. When the DMA results were analyzed low levels of n hexyl carborane appeared to have little effect if not slightly increase the dynamic stiffness of the composites. In these analyses the control the 1 weight percent and the 2.5 weight percent n hexyl carborane samples were of similar overlapping stiffness. Again at higher n hexyl carborane loadings the effect of plasticization dominated and the materials became softer.

TGA analyses of the n hexyl carborane EN8 urethane nanocomposites showed that the thermal stability of the 1 and 2.5 weight percent composites were nearly equal to and at some temperatures slightly greater than the control. Although the Tin these analyses was the highest for the control the 1 to 10 weight percent samples exhibited thermal stability that was very similar to the control. Even at high temperatures no additional thermal stability was imparted to the composite. The TGA analyses were carried out to a maximum temperature of over 630 C. When compared to the thermal stability of the n hexyl carborane model epoxy nanocomposites Example 10 only about 10 percent of the material remained. The thermal stability profiles of these materials did resemble those of the n hexyl carborane model epoxy composites in that increasing amounts of n hexyl carborane gradually lowered the thermal stability which is consistent with volatilization. This result is also consistent with some n hexyl carborane volatilizing out of the composites over time especially at high loadings as may be indicated by the shore A hardness data over time .

As discussed above EN8 is a two part urethane consisting of a Part A and Part B which is clear and orange colored. Part A contains 88 to 90 weight percent of a toluenediisocyanate TDI end capped polybutadiene and 10 to 12 weight percent TDI. Part B is 50 weight percent bis 2 hydroxypropyl aniline BHPA 50 weight percent 2 ethyl 1 3 hexane diol EHD and the catalyst. Carborane diol was first blended with Part A which was then blended with Part B. In this Example carborane diol increasingly replaced Part B on a weight basis. The 19.3 weight percent sample CD EN8 5 shown in Table 6 below contained no Part B. To make up for the resulting loss of catalyst a drop of ENA was added to this sample to provide catalyst. All materials were degassed in vacuo and small amounts of the material were poured into disk shaped RTV silicone molds diameter 11 mm by 3.6 mm . The composite materials were cured at 100 C. for 1 hour. The resulting materials became increasingly opaque and lighter orange with increasing carborane diol. The 19.3 weight percent sample was opaque and white orange. The concentrations employed for each sample prepared in this Example are provided in Table 6 below 

Like the EN8 formulations with n hexyl carborane the carborane diol samples also exhibit two main thermal transitions by rheology. Plots of tan for these materials showed one low temperature transition caused by the PDB segments and another by the cross linked and highly crystalline urethane phase. It was apparent that neither transition shifted much in temperature as the carborane diol content increased. Even the sample that contained only carborane diol exhibited transitions that were very similar to those of the control and the rest of the samples. The size and molecular weight of carborane diol is similar 204.266 g mol to those of BHPA 181.225 g mol and EHD 144.206 g mol . It may be possible that the insoluble carborane diol soluble unreacted or reacted carborane diol or a combination of the two are acting to reinforce and increase what would otherwise be a plasticized and lowered set of Tgs.

Only the 1 weight percent carborane diol sample was homogenous. The rest of the composite materials contained insoluble carborane diol which is a white crystalline solid with a melt point of about 80 C. by DSC . By SEM at 300 magnification shown in and the crystalline carborane diol was found in two forms 1 agglomerates of smaller crystals and 2 large single crystals. As a result these composite materials were off white and opaque. The image in shows the agglomerates of smaller crystals. The image in shows the cavity left by a large single crystal which was removed when the sample was prepared for imaging. Numerous large crystals could be seen below the surface but no crystals could be found and imaged protruding from the surface. It is interesting to note that the bulk carborane diol did not contain large single crystals like the one observed in the SEM image in . This may be an indication of recrystallization. In both cases it is unlikely that either solid would be significantly reinforcing. The smaller crystals were poorly dispersed and the large crystals had low relative surface areas despite their large aspect ratios. Furthermore the rest of the sample appeared to be homogeneous as can be seen in the field around the crystals.

The shore A hardness of the carborane diol EN8 urethane polymers indicated that they were all of similar high stiffness between about 80 A and 90 A . The carborane diol became insoluble at loadings as low as 2.5 weight percent. It is unlikely that much carborane diol is soluble in EN8 beyond what would be solubilized by the driving force of being reacted into the polymer matrix. It may be possible that the polymer network formed incorporating carborane was stiffer than the same material containing the organic diols but at what may have been a lower cross link density. These composites were considerably stiffer than the EN8 composites with n hexyl carborane see .

The results of DMA analysis were consistent with those of shore A hardness testing. All of the samples were of similar stiffness most being slightly stiffer than the control.

As discussed above n hexyl carborane is incapable of reacting with the EN8 matrix and by TGA those composites showed little improvement in thermal stability. TGA analyses of the carborane diol composites also showed materials all with similar profiles. Unlike n hexyl carborane the carborane diol composites showed increasing thermal stability at high temperatures. This is consistent with carborane diol being incorporated into the matrix. In fact the 19.3 weight percent carborane diol sample exhibited thermal stability that was improved compared to the control over much of the temperature range.

Carborane diol seems to have been solubilized with its reaction with isocyanate and incorporation into the polymer matrix being the likely driving force. It would appear that not much more than what was being drawn in by this mechanism was solubilized in light of the presence of recrystallized carborane diol. The carborane diol that remained insoluble was not likely to be reinforcing. It is not possible to differentiate between the inherent stiffness of a new carborane containing urethane with a relatively low cross link density and a new carborane containing urethane that is also significantly reinforced by a small amount of soluble but unreacted carborane diol. A urethane that contained carborane within its network might be expected to have a greater solubility for additional carborane. Furthermore the relatively polar carborane diol might be expected to be more soluble in the urethane component of the polymer compared to the PBD segments which is where a reaction would need to occur.

Example 14 describes the incorporation of four unreactive boron cage compounds into four polyolefin elastomers of differing compositions for a total of 16 samples. The change in glass transition temperature Tg upon addition of the BCCs in relation to the unmodified polyolefin elastomers was then compared.

In the following Example 14 nanocomposite test samples were subject to rheology characterization testing. The following procedure was employed. A TA Instruments AR G2 rheometer was used to determine rheological properties of samples using temperature sweeps with constant strain and frequency. The testing was performed under torsion between 25 mm diameter parallel plates. As much as possible disks diameter 12.5 mm by 3.25 mm thick of uniform size were used as samples. Using a 12.5 mm die samples were cut from pressed sheets. All samples were subjected to temperature sweeps with temperature ramp rate of 2.5 or 5 C. minute at strains of 0.05 and a frequency of 1 Hz. All experiments were performed under normal force control at 5.0 N with a 0.5 N tolerance gap 500 m .

Poly ethylene co vinyl acetate EVA was prepared by dissolution methods of two EVA copolymers to obtain a composition of 42 vinyl acetate and 58 ethylene. Evatane 33 400 was purchased from Arkema Inc. and Levamelt 456 was obtained from Lanxess Corporation. Poly ethylene co vinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol terpolymer EVA OH was synthesized by the base catalyzed alcoholysis reaction of the EVA blend. The result of this reaction is a drop in the vinyl acetate content to yield an EVA OH terpolymer with a composition of 58 ethylene 36 vinyl acetate and 6 vinyl alcohol. Poly ethylene co octene PEO was purchased from Dow Chemical Company as ENGAGE 8200. Poly ethylene co ethyl acrylate PEEA having 19.5 ethyl acrylate and 80.5 ethylene monomer contents was also purchased from Dow Chemical Company as AMPLIFY EA 103. The four boron cage compounds used were dilithium dodecahydrododecaborane Li BH 1 2 bis hydroxymethyl o carborane carborane diol 1 3 di o carboranylpropane tethered carborane and n hexyl o carborane n hexyl carborane . All of the BCCs used were synthesized by the International Institute of Nano and Molecular Medicine at the University of Missouri Columbia using procedures described above in Example 2.

20 30 grams of BCC nanocomposite samples were prepared by dissolution techniques. Polymers were dissolved in 200 mL tetrahydrofuran THF . While EVA and EVA OH solutions were made by stirring at room temperature PEO and PEEA solutions needed to be heated to near the boiling point of THF. The BCC was dissolved separately in THF and added to the dissolved polymer solution. The nanocomposite solutions were then poured into TEFLON lined pans and allowed to air dry. Once the majority of the THF had evaporated the resulting solid film was heated in a convection oven at 70 C. for 3 hours to remove any residual THF. The samples were then melt pressed into sheets nominally 3.2 to 3.3 mm thick.

Each of the four polymer systems PEO PEEA EVA and EVA OH were loaded individually with 10 weight of the four boron cage compounds thereby producing 16 samples. Changes in the Tg of the resulting nanocomposites can be easily detected and a determination made whether the polymer matrix was reinforced or plasticized. A plasticizer will decrease the Tg of the polymer while a filler that reinforces will cause the opposite to occur an increase. In dynamic mechanical tests like the torsion rheology test used here the Tg can be defined as the temperature where the loss modulus or the tan go through a maximum. These maxima are not exactly the same temperature but either can be used to define the Tg. For this Example the loss modulus maximum was used to define the Tg. The glass transition temperatures for the unmodified polymers were found to be PEO 53.0 C. PEEA 32.7 C. EVA 33.2 C. and EVA OH 31.9 C. The changes in glass transition temperature from the baseline for each BCC polymer combination are given as a bar chart in . All of the n hexyl carborane samples showed a decrease in Tg and were therefore clearly plasticized. The carborane diol samples produced relatively small changes from the baseline polymers. For EVA and EVA OH systems the presence of carborane diol resulted in slightly higher Tgs but for PEO and PEEA samples lower values were found. The same trends were found upon incorporation of tethered carborane higher Tg in EVA and EVA OH and lower Tg in PEO and PEEA however the shifts and differences were larger than observed for the carborane diol. Finally the most dramatic effect was found upon the addition of Li BH . EVA EVA OH and PEEA were significantly reinforced by Li BH as demonstrated by large shifts in the glass transition temperatures and increased mechanical strength storage and loss modulus . Interestingly PEO was not reinforced by Li BH but slightly plasticized. In fact PEO was plasticized by all four BCCs.

A polymer was prepared by weighing carborane diol and carborane bisepoxy into an aluminum foil pan in the amounts indicated in Table 7 below and thoroughly blending them at room temperature by hand using a standard wooden tongue depressor split the long way. Carborane bisepoxy was also tested by itself. Small amounts of the material were poured into RTV silicone molds for testing in addition to the material that remained in the aluminum foil pan. The reactive mixtures and carborane bisepoxy were then heated at 150 C. for 2 hours. Prior to curing the mixtures were observed to be opaque off white blends. After curing hard brittle tan brown solids had formed indicating that polymerization had taken place.

A carborane diol bisphenol A diglycidyl ether BADGE polymer was prepared by weighing the BADGE and carborane diol into an aluminum foil pan in the amounts indicated in Table 8 below and thoroughly blending them at room temperature by hand using a standard wooden tongue depressor split the long way. Small amounts of the material were poured into RTV silicone molds for testing in addition to the material that remained in the aluminum foil pan. The reactive mixture was then heated at 150 C. for 2 hours. Prior to curing the mixture was observed to be an opaque off white blend. After curing a tan brown hard solid had formed indicating that polymerization had taken place.

A carborane diol 4 4 methylenedianiline MDA polymer was prepared by weighing the carborane bisepoxy and MDA into an aluminum foil pan in the amounts indicated in Table 9 below and thoroughly blending them at room temperature by hand using a standard wooden tongue depressor split the long way. Small amounts of the material were poured into RTV silicone molds for testing in addition to the material that remained in the aluminum foil pan. The reactive mixture was then heated at 150 C. for 2 hours. Prior to curing the mixture was observed to be an opaque off white blend. After curing a tan brown hard solid had formed indicating that polymerization had taken place. Note that in the table below N is the number of amine groups in MDA divided by the number of epoxy groups in carborane bisepoxy.

It should be understood that the following is not intended to be an exclusive list of defined terms. Other definitions may be provided in the foregoing description accompanying the use of a defined term in context.

As used herein the term and or when used in a list of two or more items means that any one of the listed items can be employed by itself or any combination of two or more of the listed items can be employed. For example if a composition is described as containing components A B and or C the composition can contain A alone B alone C alone A and B in combination A and C in combination B and C in combination or A B and C in combination.

As used herein the terms comprising comprises and comprise are open ended transition terms used to transition from a subject recited before the term to one or more elements recited after the term where the element or elements listed after the transition term are not necessarily the only elements that make up the subject.

As used herein the terms containing contains and contain have the same open ended meaning as comprising comprises and comprise provided above.

As used herein the terms having has and have have the same open ended meaning as comprising comprises and comprise provided above.

As used herein the terms including includes and include have the same open ended meaning as comprising comprises and comprise provided above.

The present description uses numerical ranges to quantify certain parameters relating to various embodiments of the invention. It should be understood that when numerical ranges are provided such ranges are to be construed as providing literal support for claim limitations that only recite the lower value of the range as well as claim limitations that only recite the upper value of the range. For example a disclosed numerical range of 10 to 100 provides literal support for a claim reciting greater than 10 with no upper bounds and a claim reciting less than 100 with no lower hounds .

The present description uses specific numerical values to quantify certain parameters relating to the invention where the specific numerical values are not expressly part of a numerical range. It should be understood that each specific numerical value provided herein is to be construed as providing literal support for a broad intermediate and narrow range. The broad range associated with each specific numerical value is the numerical value plus and minus 60 percent of the numerical value rounded to two significant digits. The intermediate range associated with each specific numerical value is the numerical value plus and minus 30 percent of the numerical value rounded to two significant digits. The narrow range associated with each specific numerical value is the numerical value plus and minus 15 percent of the numerical value rounded to two significant digits. For example if the specification describes a specific temperature of 62 F. such a description provides literal support for a broad numerical range of 25 F. to 99 F. 62 F. 37 F. an intermediate numerical range of 43 F. to 81 F. 62 F. 19 F. and a narrow numerical range of 53 F. to 71 F. 62 F. 9 F. . These broad intermediate and narrow numerical ranges should be applied not only to the specific values but should also be applied to differences between these specific values. Thus if the specification describes a first pressure of 110 psia and a second pressure of 48 psia a difference of 62 psi the broad intermediate and narrow ranges for the pressure difference between these two streams would be 25 to 99 psi 43 to 81 psi and 53 to 71 psi respectively.

The preferred forms of the invention described above are to be used as illustration only and should not be used in a limiting sense to interpret the scope of the present invention. Modifications to the exemplary embodiments set forth above could be readily made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

The inventors hereby state their intent to rely on the Doctrine of Equivalents to determine and assess the reasonably fair scope of the present invention as it pertains to any apparatus not materially departing from but outside the literal scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

