---

title: Techniques to transform network resource requests to zero rated network requests
abstract: Techniques to transform network resource requests to zero rated network requests are described. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques transform network resource requests on a cellular network to zero rating by replacing the destination of the request with a zero-rated source for the network resource. In one embodiment, for example, an apparatus may comprise a data store and a network access component. The data store may be operative to store a plurality of zero-rating rewrite rules. The network access component may be operative to receive a network request from an application component on the mobile device, the network request for access to a network resource; compare the network resource to the plurality of zero-rating rewrite rules to identify a zero-rating rewrite rule matching the network resource; transform the network request to a zero-rated network request for the network resource using the identified zero-rating rewrite rule; and perform the zero-rated network request. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584671&OS=09584671&RS=09584671
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09584671
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141119
---
Cellular carriers may provide cellular data communication to their cellular customers. For example smart phones and other mobile devices may run web browsers that may be used while on the cellular network to retrieve web pages. Additionally many applications that may be pre installed or user installed on a mobile device may use cellular data communication to access remote data such as resources available on the Internet. Some of these applications may use web requests requests conforming to the hypertext transport protocol HTTP or related protocols such as the hypertext transport protocol secure HTTPS for their data access even for data access distinct from conventional web access. For example a social networking application may present a customized smart phone interface for use of a social network and use HTTP or HTTPS requests to retrieve the data presented on the customized smart phone interface.

Cellular carriers may not provide any or unlimited free cellular data communication to their cellular customers. Instead cellular customers may be charged for bandwidth that they use on the carrier s cellular network. However some cellular access may be zero rated. Zero rated cellular access may not contribute to capped free cellular data communication that may be included in a cellular customer s plan or pre paid purchase. Zero rated cellular access may not generate a fee to the cellular customer even if that customer is over a limited quantity of allocated or pre paid cellular data access or where such an allocated or pre paid cellular data access does not exist. Zero rated cellular access may be dependent on the specific network accessed with the cellular carrier having a list of one or more network addresses such as internet protocol IP addresses to which cellular customers have zero rated access. This list may vary between cellular carriers.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques to transform network resource requests to zero rated network requests. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques transform network resource requests on a cellular network to zero rating by replacing the destination of the request with a zero rated source for the network resource. In one embodiment for example an apparatus may comprise a data store and a network access component. The data store may be operative to store a plurality of zero rating rewrite rules. The network access component may be operative to receive a network request from an application component on the mobile device the network request for access to a network resource compare the network resource to the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules to identify a zero rating rewrite rule matching the network resource transform the network request to a zero rated network request for the network resource using the identified zero rating rewrite rule and perform the zero rated network request. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are directed to techniques for a network access component operative to receive network requests for a network resource and transform the network requests to a zero rated network requests for the same network resource. The network access component may manage network access for an application on a smart phone so as to minimize the cost of using cellular data access with the application. For instance the application may correspond to an application for an Internet based service such as a social networking service. The Internet based service may maintain a subset of servers which it has zero rated with one or more cellular carriers for example the Internet based service may zero rate servers which are geographically proximate to potentially even co located with a cellular carrier. However the cellular data access of the application may be to a web front end for the Internet based service with this web front end not configured to return links to zero rated resources for users that would benefit from such. Further for the web front end for the Internet based service to be configured to return links to zero rated resources the web front end would need to know for each user which resources would be zero rated for that particular user as that may vary between users based on their respective cellular carriers.

Instead the application may be equipped to automatically transform uniform resource locators URLs to resources received from the Internet based service to be retrieved from sources e.g. servers that are zero rated with there particular cellular carrier. The application may download a list of rules where each rule has a pattern against which it will match. Where a rule matches a URL the rule may specify a transformation to generate a new URL from the received URL where the new URL resolves to a zero rated server. This list of rules may be curated specifically for the cellular carrier of the user with the specific list of rules provided to the user selected as corresponding to the user s cellular carrier. The application may therefore attempt to minimize the quantity of cellular data charges generated for the user by the application s cellular data access. As a result the embodiments can improve the affordability of using an application and thereby increase the use of the application by users.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

It is worthy to note that a and b and c and similar designators as used herein are intended to be variables representing any positive integer. Thus for example if an implementation sets a value for a 5 then a complete set of components may include components and . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The zero rating transformation system may comprise the application . The application may be generally arranged to perform cellular data access on behalf of a user. The application may be generally arranged to structure cellular data access to use zero rated resources whenever it possesses sufficient knowledge to do so. The application may comprise an application component and a network access component . It will be appreciate that the application may not be limited to these components.

The client device may comprise a mobile device served by a cellular carrier. The cellular carrier for client device may be network carrier . It will be appreciated that network carriers other than cellular carriers may be used with relation to the described embodiments.

The application may comprise an application component . The application component may be generally arranged to perform user facing tasks for the application . For instance where the application is an application for an Internet based service the application component may display network resources for the user. The application component may initiate the retrieval of network resources for display for the user using the network access component . The application component may submit a network request to the network access component the network request a request for access to a network resource .

The client device may comprise a data store . The data store may store a plurality of zero rating rewrite rules . The data store may comprise any known technique or technology for storing data on a client device .

The network resource may comprise an Internet accessible resource that may be provided by one or more Internet accessible servers such as non zero rated hosting server and zero rated hosting server . Non zero rated hosting server may comprise a source for network resource that is not zero rated by network carrier for client device . Zero rated hosting server may comprise a source for network resource that is zero rated by network carrier for client device . Application component may be agnostic as to whether network resource is retrieved from non zero rated hosting server or zero rated hosting server so long as network resource is retrieved in response to network request . Network resource may be hosted by a plurality of servers with both non zero rated hosting server and zero rated hosting server among that plurality.

The application may comprise a network access component . The network access component may be generally arranged to receive a network request from an application component on the client device the network request for access to a network resource compare the network resource to the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules to identify a zero rating rewrite rule matching the network resource transform the network request to a zero rated network request for the network resource using the identified zero rating rewrite rule and perform the zero rated network request . While not all network requests will prompt a response from the server to which they are requested where the zero rated hosting server returns a response to the zero rated network request the network access component may be operative to receive the response and pass it to the application component . In some cases a zero rated source for a network resource may not be known to the network access component the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules may not include a rule encompassing the network resource in which case the network access component may request the network resource from a non zero rated hosting server .

In some cases the network resource may comprise a web resource. The network resource may comprise a web page. The network resource may comprise a hypertext markup language HTML file extensible markup language XML extensible hypertext markup language XHTML file or any other file for composing the body of a web page. The network resource may comprise an image file such as a joint photographic experts group JPEG file graphic interchange format GIF file portable network graphics PNG file or any other type of image file. The network resource may generally comprise any sort of web resource. For example an application component may load a web page and request a plurality of network resources including the HTML file making up the body of the page a cascading style sheets CSS file describing the look and formatting of the page and a plurality of media files includes images file. The network access component may receive a request for each of those resources apply the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules to each to transform them to zero rated sources for those resources and request the zero rated resources.

The network access component may be generally operative to receive transform and request any network resources that may be referenced by a URL or other technique for specifying locations for network accessible resources. As such where the network resource comprises a web resource the network request comprising a request to retrieve the web resource from a non zero rated URL the network access component may be operative to transforming the non zero rated URL to a zero rated URL for the web resource using a zero rating rewrite rule identified as matching the non zero rated URL for the web resource.

The network resource may be hosted on a network server such as non zero rated hosting server . The network resource may also be hosted on a zero rated network server such as zero rated hosting server . Comparing the network resource to the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules may consist of matching a domain name for the network resource against a plurality of domain name tags for the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules to identify the zero rating rewrite rule associated with a domain name tag of the plurality of domain name tags matching the domain name. The domain name for the network resource may be part of a URL for the network resource . A domain name tag may comprise a domain name pattern against which a domain name may be matched. The domain name tag may contain wildcard characters or other signifiers that indicate that multiple domain names may match against the tag. For example a domain name tag .facebook.com might match against any domain name ending with facebook.com .

Transforming the network request to the zero rated network request may comprise rewriting the domain name for the network request to a zero rated domain name corresponding to a zero rated network server such as zero rated hosting server . The zero rated network request may comprise the zero rated domain name replacing the domain name for the network resource from the network request . Performing the zero rated network request therefore comprises requesting the network resource from the zero rated network server. The network resource may be represented by a URL. Transforming the network request to the zero rated network request may comprise replacing the domain name for the network request in the URL with the zero rated domain name according to the matching zero rating rewrite rule.

The network access component may be operative to retrieve the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules from a data store each of the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules associated with a domain name pattern of a plurality of domain name patterns. A domain name pattern may comprise a standardized string text field or other data encoding representing one or more domain names. The domain name patterns may use wildcard characters to empower matching the domain name patterns against a plurality of different domain names. The network access component may compare the domain name for the network resource to one or more of the plurality of domain name patterns to identify the zero rating rewrite rule of the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules matching the domain name for the network resource . The network access component matching the zero rating rewrite rule to the network resource may correspond to the zero rating rewrite rule identifying as matching the domain name for the network resource.

Zero rating transformation system may include an authorization server or other suitable component s that allows users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by zero rating transformation system or shared with other systems e.g. third party systems for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. A privacy setting of a user may determine what information associated with the user may be logged how information associated with the user may be logged when information associated with the user may be logged who may log information associated with the user whom information associated with the user may be shared with and for what purposes information associated with the user may be logged or shared. Authorization servers or other authorization components may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of application and or network carrier through blocking data hashing anonymization or other suitable techniques as appropriate.

Exchanging network traffic such as performing zero rated network request may comprise transmitting and receiving network traffic via a network interface controller NIC . A NIC comprises a hardware component connecting a computer device such as client device to a computer network. The NIC may be associated with a software network interface empowering software applications to access and use the NIC. Network traffic may be received over the computer network as signals transmitted over data links. The network traffic may be received by capturing these signals and interpreting them. The NIC may receive network traffic over the computer network and transfer the network traffic to memory storage accessible to software applications using a network interface application programming interface API .

A zero rating check request is a request made to the network access component to compare a network resource such as a URL for the network resource to the zero rating rewrite rules to determine whether the network resource can be retrieved from a zero rated source such as zero rated hosting server . Each of the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules contain a pattern against which they will trigger. When used with a network request such as network request this pattern is used to identify a particular rule so as to retrieve the associated transformation that may be used to convert the zero rated network request into the zero rated network request with the zero rated network request then automatically performed by the network access component . When used with a zero rating check request this pattern is used to determine whether the zero rating check request matches a particular rule such that the resource identified by the zero rating check request may be transformed. The transformation itself is not performed on the network resource of the zero rating check request nor is a request performed on the network carrier in response to the zero rating check request . As such the application component may use a zero rating check request to determine whether a particular network resource may be requested from a zero rated source.

The network access component may transmit a zero rating check response to the application component . The zero rating check response may comprise an indication to the application component of whether the network resource referenced by the zero rating check request can be retrieved from a zero rated source such as zero rated hosting server . The zero rating check response may comprise an indication to the application component of whether the zero rating rewrite rules contain a rule matching the network resource such as a rule containing a pattern matching a provided URL for the network resource .

The application component may be operative to perform a zero rating check request in response to a user request to the application to make a network request . For instance a user may select an icon picture or segment of text follow a link or otherwise select that a URL be loaded or otherwise accessed. The application component may in response to the user request transmit zero rating check request to the network access component to determine whether the user request may be performed without generating bandwidth costs for the user with the network carrier .

If the zero rating check response indicates that a network request would be transformed to a zero rated network request if performed with the network access component the application component may automatically proceed to perform the network request for the network resource without consultation with the user of application . If the zero rating check response indicates that a network request would not be transformed to a zero rated network request that the zero rating rewrite rules do not contain a rule to transform a network request to a zero rated network request the application component may inform the user that accessing network resource may incur bandwidth charges with the network carrier . The application component may display a dialog to the user of application informing them of the possible bandwidth charges and asking whether they still want to access the network resource . If the user indicates through the dialog that they still want to access the network resource the application component may in response perform network request with the network resource retrieved from a non zero rated hosting server potentially incurring charges with network carrier .

As shown in network requests including zero rated network request and an untransformed network request may be performed by the network access component using a communications component of the client device . The communications component may comprise a software component of an operating system of the client device may comprise one or more hardware component such as a cellular communications component and may comprise a combination of such software and hardware components. For instance the communications component may be provided by the client device and managed by an operating system and firmware of the client device . The communications component may be accessible to the application and its network access component via the operating system of the client device for use in performing cellular communication via network carrier .

The network access component may perform transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP communication via a TCP IP network application programming interface API of an operating system of the client device . The network access component may perform user datagram protocol IP UDP IP communication via a UDP IP network API of an operating system of the client device . The network access component may generally perform communication via an API of the operating system of the client device the OS transmitted the communication via the communications component .

The network carrier will receive a request such as network request or zero rated network request and compare the destination of the request to a list of zero rated destinations to determine whether the request is zero rated or should generate charges to the client. If a request received from a client device is on the list of zero rated destinations which list may be denominated and indexed by IP address the request will not generate specific bandwidth charges to the client. If the request received from the client device is not on the list of zero rated destinations the network carrier will charge the user s account such as prospectively to a future monthly bill or reducing a balance of available bandwidth or prepaid amount for the bandwidth used in transmitting the request and if applicable receiving a response.

The network access component uses the zero rating rewrite rules to transform network requests to zero rated network requests and to determine which network requests may be transformed into zero rated network requests. However to the extent that the zero rating rewrite rules accurately perform this task the zero rating rewrite rules must match the actual listing of zero rated sources e.g. network addresses for the network carrier of the client device . As such the zero rating rewrite rules in order to function properly must both be specific to the network carrier for the client device and be kept up to date. Therefore the application cannot simply ship with a set of zero rating rewrite rules such as being distributed through a mobile app distribution service with the zero rating rewrite rules already configured and simply continue to use the same plurality of zero rating rewrite rules through its operation.

Instead the application may be operative to retrieve the zero rating rewrite rules from a zero rated app support server . The zero rated app support server may provide zero rating support functionality to client devices such as client device in performing zero rating transformations of network requests. The zero rated app support server may be particularly associated with a provider of application . For instance if application is an Internet service specific application such as an application specifically for using a social networking service the Internet service may provide one or more zero rated app support servers for providing zero rating rewrite rules to users of application . The zero rated app support server may maintain pluralities of zero rating rewrite rules wherein a specific plurality of zero rating rewrite rules may be associated with each network carrier supported by the zero rated app support server with the zero rating rewrite rules associated with network carrier comprising one such association.

As such an application may transmit a rules request to the zero rated app support server and receive the zero rating rewrite rules in response to the rules request . The rules request may contain information provided by the application sufficient for the zero rated app support server to identify the network carrier for the client device so as to empower the zero rated app support server to identify the particular zero rating rewrite rules appropriate to the client device . Alternatively the zero rated app support server may infer the network carrier used by the client device based on one or more aspects of the delivery of rules request to the zero rated app support server . For instance the rules request may be delivered via a gateway of the network carrier that the zero rated app support server identifies in order to identify the network carrier . In general the zero rated app support server may receive the rules request determine the network carrier associated with the client device and transmit the zero rating rewrite rules in response to the network access component . Upon receiving the zero rating rewrite rules from the zero rated app support server the network access component may store the zero rating rewrite rules in the data store for future use.

The zero rated app support server may itself be zero rated with the network carrier . In general the provider and maintainer of the zero rated app support server may contract certify or otherwise arrange with the network carrier to be zero rated for its clients.

The zero rated app support server may be preconfigured with the network access component for an initial retrieval of the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules during initialization of the network access component . The application may on installation first launch or first authentication with an Internet based service perform various initialization operations. One of these initialization operations may be to initialize the network access component with the zero rating rewrite rules . The network access component may use an address such as a URL domain or IP address preconfigured with the network access component to contact the zero rated app support server to perform the rules request and receive the zero rating rewrite rules in response. This may correspond to a bootstrap process in which the zero rated app support server is initially the only zero rated server known to the application with the received zero rating rewrite rules empowering the application to perform more general network tasks using zero rated sources.

The application may also periodically update itself with the most recent zero rating rewrite rules for its network carrier using the zero rated app support server . The application may on a predefined schedule contact the zero rated app support server with a rules request receive the zero rating rewrite rules and store the zero rating rewrite rules in the data store . This predefined schedule may comprise for example a twenty four hour schedule. In some embodiments the network access component may only perform this update when the application is being run by the user such as being foregrounded by the user with the network access component performing the update based on a determination that at least a minimum amount of time defined by the predefined schedule has passed since the last retrieval of the zero rating rewrite rules . In other embodiments the update may be performed even where the application is backgrounded.

In some embodiments the zero rated hosting server may only respond to process or otherwise allow zero rated network requests such as zero rated network request where such a request is accompanied by a zero rating access security token . The zero rated hosting server being zero rated may correspond to the provider of the zero rated hosting server making an agreement with the network carrier . In some cases this agreement may incur fees for the provider of the zero rated hosting server such as covering the charges that would normally be applied to the user of client device or some other form of bandwidth based charge. As such the provider of zero rated hosting server may be benefited by limiting access to the zero rated hosting server . For instance the provider of the zero rated hosting server may prefer to only allow access to the zero rated hosting server by users of an application specific to an Internet based service provided by the provider of the zero rated hosting server not allowing access to the zero rated hosting server to those who access the Internet based service using for example a web front end to the service.

In some embodiments the network access component may transmit token request and receive the zero rating access security token . In some cases the zero rating access security token may only be received where the application authenticates with the Internet based service. The zero rating access security token may be uniquely associated with an account for the Internet based service such as by being a hash of a user identifier of the user of the client device with the Internet based service. In some embodiments the token request may be transmitted to and the zero rating access security token received from the zero rated app support server as the zero rated app support server is a zero rated server known to the application at the time of initialization of the application . In other embodiments the token request may be transmitted to and the zero rating access security token received from a different server which may or may not be zero rated maintained by the provider of the Internet based service. The network access component may upon receive the zero rating access security token store the zero rating access security token in the data store . The zero rating access security token may also be a general security token for the application and be used for other interactions with the Internet based service. In some cases only a portion of zero rated network requests will use the zero rating access security token with other zero rated network requests not requiring any proof of authentication to be performed. For example a first portion of the zero rating rewrite rules may correspond to the provider of the Internet based service maintaining the zero rated app support server and a second portion of the zero rating rewrite rules may correspond to other provider of Internet based resources. The zero rating access security token might only be used with the first portion with the second portion not requiring a security token for access or using their own distinct security token or other proof of authorization.

Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein for example in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

The logic flow may begin at block . This may correspond to the initiation of the logic corresponding to the network access component to the network access component exiting a wait state or any other operation putting the network access component in position to receive and process a network request . The logic flow may then proceed to block .

The logic flow may receive a request at block . This may comprise an API being used to provide the request to a network access component . This may correspond to an application entering into a portion of its logic responsible for the performance of requests such as network requests and zero rating check requests. The logic flow may then proceed to block .

The logic flow may determine whether the request is for a zero rating transformation check at block . If the request is a zero rating transformation check then the logic flow may proceed to block . Otherwise the logic flow may proceed to block .

The logic flow may check the request against the zero rating rewrite rules at block . The request may be compared to the zero rating rewrite rules to determine whether any of the rules match the request such as by matching a domain or URL identifying the network resource requested by the request. The logic flow may then proceed to block .

The logic flow may return the check result to the requestor at block . The requestor may correspond to another component function logical unit thread or other element of an application executing the logic flow . The logic flow may then terminate such as an inherent part of returning the check result until a new request is initiated.

The logic flow may check the request against the zero rating rewrite rules at block . The request may be compared to the zero rating rewrite rules to determine whether any of the rules match the request such as by matching a domain or URL identifying the network resource requested by the request. The logic flow may then proceed to block .

The logic flow may branch on whether the request can be zero rated at block . If the request can be zero rated by the zero rating rewrite rules then the logic flow may proceed to block . Otherwise the logic flow may proceed to block .

The logic flow may transform the request to use a zero rated source at block . A network resource may be provided by more than one source with a subset of the sources being zero rated with a network carrier . The zero rating rewrite rules may be used to transform the domain URL or other address component of the request to be a zero rated source. The logic flow may then proceed to block .

The logic flow may transmit the request at block . Transmitting the request may comprise using a communications component of the client device to transmit the request via cellular signals to a network carrier which then transmits the request to a server over the Internet. This may be performed by engaging a network API of the client device . Where the request could be transformed by the zero rating rewrite rules to use a zero rated source a zero rated hosting server may be the recipient of the request. Where the request could not be transformed by the zero rating rewrite rules to use a zero rated source a non zero rated hosting server may be the recipient of the request. The logic flow may then terminate. The logic flow may return an indication of successful transmission to another element of the logic flow the application . The logic flow may return this indication as an inherent part of terminating.

The server device may comprise any electronic device capable of receiving processing and sending information for the zero rating transformation system . Examples of an electronic device may include without limitation an ultra mobile device a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone ebook readers a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television digital television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The server device may execute processing operations or logic for the zero rating transformation system using a processing component . The processing component may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The server device may execute communications operations or logic for the zero rating transformation system using communications component . The communications component may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications component may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media physical connectors and so forth. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired communications media and wireless communications media. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit boards PCB backplanes switch fabrics semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics a propagated signal and so forth. Examples of wireless communications media may include acoustic radio frequency RF spectrum infrared and other wireless media.

The server device may comprise the zero rated app support server and the zero rated hosting server . The server device may communicate with network carrier using signals sent over media . The server device communicating with the network carrier may comprise the zero rated app support server receiving the zero rating rewrite rules from the network carrier for storage and eventual distribution to clients such as client device . The signals sent over media may also comprise communication between the client device and the server device such as for the performance of the operations of the zero rated app support server and the zero rated hosting server with respect to the client device .

The client device may communicate with network carrier using cellular signals transmitted using cellular broadcast. The client device may comprise cellular communications component that uses cellular transmission to connect to cell site . It will be appreciated that the cell site may be provided by the network carrier and be part of its infrastructure. The cellular communications component may correspond to the communication component discussed with reference to . It will be appreciated that client device may connect to a variety of cellular sites on various uses of application as the client device transitions between locations and therefore cellular sites. The signals may be used by the client device to communicate with the network carrier the zero rated app support server and the zero rated hosting server hosted by server device and with other servers clients and other computing devices accessible via the network carrier such as servers clients and other computing devices accessible via the Internet.

The distributed system may comprise a client device and server devices and . In general the client device and the server devices and may be the same or similar to the server device as described with reference to . For instance the client device and the server devices and may each comprise a processing component and a communications component which are the same or similar to the processing component and the communications component respectively as described with reference to . In another example the devices and may communicate over a communications media using communications signals via the communications components . The client device may be bridged to media by cellular signals broadcast to a cell site and by signals sent over media to the network carrier . It will be appreciated that the cell site may be provided by the network carrier and be part of its infrastructure.

The server device may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement the zero rated app support server . As such the communication between the server device and the client device may correspond to the client requesting and receiving the zero rating rewrite rules and zero rating access security token .

The server device may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement the zero rated hosting server . As such the communication between the server device and the client device may correspond to the client requesting and receiving the network resource as a zero rated communication.

The server device may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement the non zero rated hosting server . As such the communication between the server device and the client device may correspond to the client requesting and receiving the network resource as a non zero rated communication.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may receive a network request from an application component the network request for access to a network resource at block .

The logic flow may compare the network resource to a plurality of zero rating rewrite rules to identify a zero rating rewrite rule matching the network resource at block .

The logic flow may transform the network request to a zero rated network request for the network resource using the identified zero rating rewrite rule at block .

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may receiving a network request from an application component the network request for access to a network resource hosted on a network server at block .

The logic flow may match a domain name for the network resource against a plurality of domain name tags for a plurality of zero rating rewrite rules using a processor circuit to identify a zero rating rewrite rule associated with a domain name tag of the plurality of domain name tags matching the domain name at block .

The logic flow may rewrite the domain name for the network request to a zero rated domain name corresponding to a zero rated network server using the identified zero rating rewrite rule at block .

The logic flow may request the network resource from the zero rated network server using a network interface component at block .

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may receive a network request from an application component the network request for access to a network resource at block .

The logic flow may retrieve a plurality of zero rating rewrite rules from a data store each of the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules associated with a domain name pattern of a plurality of a domain name patterns at block .

The logic flow may compare using a processor circuit a domain name for the network resource to one or more of the plurality of domain name patterns to identify a zero rating rewrite rule of the plurality of zero rating rewrite rules matching the domain name for the network resource at block .

The logic flow may transform the network request to a zero rated network request for the network resource using the identified zero rating rewrite rule the zero rated network request comprising a zero rated domain name replacing the domain name for the network request at block .

The logic flow may perform the zero rated network request using a network interface component at block .

As used in this application the terms system and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMD Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via a slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non transitory computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of the zero rating transformation system .

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.8 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.8x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

As shown in the communications architecture comprises includes one or more clients and servers . The clients may implement the client device . The servers may implement the server device . The clients and the servers are operatively connected to one or more respective client data stores and server data stores that can be employed to store information local to the respective clients and servers such as cookies and or associated contextual information.

The clients and the servers may communicate information between each other using a communication framework . The communications framework may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols. The communications framework may be implemented as a packet switched network e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth a circuit switched network e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of a packet switched network and a circuit switched network with suitable gateways and translators .

The communications framework may implement various network interfaces arranged to accept communicate and connect to a communications network. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and the like token ring wireless network interfaces cellular network interfaces IEEE 802.11a x network interfaces IEEE 802.16 network interfaces IEEE 802.20 network interfaces and the like. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and unicast networks. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and capacity distributed network controller architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by clients and the servers . A communications network may be any one and the combination of wired and or wireless networks including without limitation a direct interconnection a secured custom connection a private network e.g. an enterprise intranet a public network e.g. the Internet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network a cellular network and other communications networks.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

With general reference to notations and nomenclature used herein the detailed descriptions herein may be presented in terms of program procedures executed on a computer or network of computers. These procedural descriptions and representations are used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.

A procedure is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. These operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It proves convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be noted however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to those quantities.

Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of one or more embodiments. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing operations of various embodiments include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

Various embodiments also relate to apparatus or systems for performing these operations. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose or it may comprise a general purpose computer as selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. The procedures presented herein are not inherently related to a particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose machines may be used with programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these machines will appear from the description given.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

