---

title: RF reflector
abstract: A radio frequency (RF) reflecting apparatus includes a curved reflecting element and resistive material coupled to the curved reflecting element proximate two or more edges of the curved reflecting element. The resistive material has a first portion with a first conductance and a second portion with a second conductance that differs from the first conductance. The RF reflecting apparatus also includes a frame coupled to the curved reflecting element and at least one wheel coupled to the frame. The at least one wheel is configured to enable to translation of the curved reflecting member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09523726&OS=09523726&RS=09523726
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 09523726
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
This invention was made with Government support. The Government has certain rights to this invention.

The present disclosure is generally related to a Radio Frequency RF reflector for use during testing of electronic systems on a product.

Devices that emit high power radio frequency RF signals can interfere with other nearby devices. For example a signal emitted by a radar system or a high power radio transmitter onboard a platform can cause interference with other electronics onboard or nearby the platform. To determine whether interference from an RF signal source presents a problem RF emissions interference testing may be performed. During an RF emissions interference test the RF signal source is caused to transmit an RF signal and other devices that will be used with or near the RF signal source are tested to determine whether the RF signal interferes with their operation.

For certain products such as airborne and space borne platforms it can be difficult and or expensive to simulate an actual operational environment during RF emissions interference testing. For example if the product is on or near the ground downward directed. RF signals may reflect from the ground and cause interference that would not be present if the product were in flight or in orbit. To test such products energy emitted by the RF signal source may be absorbed or reflected from a test area to more accurately simulate how the RF signal source will interact with other electronic systems onboard the product. However materials to absorb the energy at close proximity tend to be expensive and relatively immobile due to size and weight.

In a particular embodiment a radio frequency RF reflecting apparatus includes a curved reflecting element. The RF reflecting apparatus further includes resistive material coupled to the curved reflecting element proximate two or more edges of the curved reflecting element. The resistive material has a first portion with a first conductance and a second portion with a second conductance that differs from the first conductance. The RF reflecting apparatus also includes a frame coupled to the curved reflecting element and at least one wheel coupled to the frame. The at least one wheel is configured to enable translation of the curved reflecting member.

In another embodiment a method includes translating a radio frequency RF reflecting apparatus from a first position to a second position relative to a product. The method also includes performing an RF emission interference test of a component of the product. The RF reflecting apparatus at the second position reflects a first signal portion of an RF signal away from the product. The RF reflecting apparatus includes a curved reflecting element and resistive material coupled to the curved reflecting element proximate two or more edges of the curved reflecting element. The resistive material has a first resistive portion with a first conductance and a second resistive portion with a second conductance that differs from the first conductance. The RF reflecting apparatus also includes a frame coupled to the curved reflecting element and at least one wheel coupled to the frame. The at least one wheel is configured to enable translation of the curved reflecting member.

In a particular embodiment a movable radio frequency RF reflecting apparatus may be used to reflect energy away from a product such as an aircraft a spacecraft or another platform during RF emissions interference testing. The RF reflecting apparatus may be configured to be moved e.g. translated and or rotated into position relative to the product. The RF reflecting apparatus may be relatively light weight e.g. moveable under human power and low cost. Further since the RF reflecting apparatus can be moved to the product under test costs of transporting the product to a testing environment such as an anechoic chamber can be saved.

In a particular embodiment as described further below the RF reflecting apparatus includes a curved reflecting element coupled to a frame. The frame is coupled to one or more wheels that enable translation and or rotation of the RF reflecting apparatus. The curved reflecting element is configured to reflect RF energy away from the product. Since some portion of the RF energy may propagate along the RF reflecting apparatus e.g. as a surface wave the RF reflecting apparatus may be configured to inhibit emission of energy from edges of the curved reflecting element. For example a resistive material may be coupled to edges of the curved reflective element. The resistive material may be configured to gradually transition from a first conductance e.g. approximately matching a conductance of the curved reflective element to a second conductance e.g. approximately matching to a conductance of free space or air . To illustrate a first portion of the resistive material closest to the edge of the curved reflecting element may have a first conductance and a second portion of the resistive material furthest from the edge of the curved reflecting element may have a second conductance that is different from e.g. less than the first conductance. The RF reflecting element may also include an RF absorbing foam at one or more edges of the curved reflecting element. The RF absorbing foam may both mitigate RF energy reflections toward the product and reduce risk of damage to the product while moving the RF reflecting apparatus into position relative to the product.

Referring to various views of a particular embodiment of an RF reflecting apparatus are shown. shows a top view of the RF reflecting apparatus . shows a front view of the RF reflecting apparatus . shows a perspective view of the RF reflecting apparatus . shows a first cross section view of the RF reflecting apparatus along section line of and FIG. E shows a second cross section view of the RF reflecting apparatus along section line of .

The RF reflecting apparatus includes a curved reflecting element . The curved reflecting element may be formed of an electrically conductive material such as sheet metal. To illustrate the curved reflective element may be formed of stainless steel or another steel alloy aluminum copper or another metal. The curved reflecting element is curved to reflect energy away from a product under test as described further below. The curved reflecting element may be coupled to and supported by a frame . In a particular embodiment the frame may be formed of a non conductive material such as one or more fiber glass elements.

A resistive material is coupled to at least a portion of an edge of the curved reflecting element . For example in the resistive material is disposed along or attached to two or more edges of the curved reflecting element . The resistive material may be configured to transition from a first conductance e.g. proximate the edge of the curved reflective element to a second conductance e.g. proximate an edge of the RF reflecting apparatus . The transition from the first conductance to the second conductance may be gradual or step wise. In a particular embodiment the first conductance approximately matches a conductance of the curved reflective element and the second conductance approximately matches a conductance of free space or air. In this context a particular conductance approximately matches another particular conductance when the particular conductances are sufficiently close in value that RF energy above a design threshold is not emitted at an interface between the particular conductances. Thus the resistive material reduces sharp conductance transitions that may lead to free space emission of energy propagating along a surface of the curved reflecting element . In a particular embodiment the resistive material includes a resistive taper tape coupled to the curved reflective element or to the frame supporting the curved reflective element . Alternatively or in addition the resistive material may include a resistive card also referred to as an R card coupled to the curved reflective element or to the frame .

An RF absorbing foam may be coupled to at least an edge of the RF reflecting apparatus that will be position nearest the product during RF emissions interference testing of the product. For example in the embodiment illustrated in the RF reflecting apparatus is configured to be position under the product. Accordingly the RF absorbing foam is coupled at least to a top edge of the RF reflecting apparatus e.g to the resistive material or the frame . The RF absorbing foam provides further mitigation of RF energy that may otherwise propagate toward the product. For example resistive material may inhibit propagation of energy from the curved reflective element toward the product e.g. at the upper edge of the RF reflecting apparatus in and the RF absorbing foam may absorb at least a portion of any energy that is not dissipated by the resistive material .

In a particular embodiment the frame or another portion of the RF reflecting apparatus may be coupled to one or more wheels such as a wheel assembly . The wheel assembly enables movement e.g. translation and or rotation of the RF reflecting apparatus into a desired position. For example the RF reflecting apparatus may be rolled to a position under a product to conduct RF emissions interference testing and may be subsequently rolled away from the product after the RF emissions interference testing is complete. Although the embodiment illustrated in includes four wheels in other embodiments the wheel assembly may include more than four wheels or fewer than four wheels.

In a particular embodiment the curved reflecting element may be elongated along an axis and may have a substantially uniform cross section at each location that is perpendicular to the axis . For example a first cross section of the curved reflecting element illustrated in may have the same size and shape as a second cross section of the curved reflecting element as illustrated in . The first cross section may be taken perpendicular to the axis at a first location e.g. along section line of and the second cross section may be taken perpendicular to the axis at a second location e.g. along section line of . In a particular embodiment the curved reflecting element is formed by forming a single bend between two edges of a sheet of metal. This is in contrast to reflectors used for example in anechoic chambers which are generally curved in multiple planes e.g. spherically curved . The simplified shape of the curved reflective element reduces manufacturing cost of the curved reflective element relative to reflectors having more complex curvatures e.g. multi axis or multi plane curves .

During operation the RF reflecting apparatus may be moved e.g. translated rotated or both into position relative to a product under test. The wheel assembly facilitates moving the RF reflecting apparatus into position under manual power and the RF absorbing foam may prevent damage as a result of accidental contact between the RF reflecting apparatus and the product during movement of the RF reflecting apparatus .

When the RF reflecting apparatus is in position an RF emissions interference test may be initiated. The curved reflecting element is configured to reflect RF energy emitted by a first device such as a radar array of the product away from the product. Thus the RF energy emitted by the first device is not reflected back to the product e.g. from the ground in a manner that causes interference with other devices of the product. This enables simulation of use of the first device in a manner that mimics normal operation of the product e.g. in an environment far from the ground where ground reflections are relatively low power RF signals . While a first portion of the RF energy is reflected into free space away from the product by the curved reflecting element a second portion of the RF energy may propagate along a surface of the curved reflecting element . The resistive material may dissipate some of or all of the second portion of the RF energy. For example a third portion of the RF energy may be reflected by emitted by or absorbed by a portion of the resistive material that is closest to the curved reflective element e.g. closest to the edge . Another portion e.g. a fourth portion of the RF energy may be dissipate by the resistive material e.g. converted to heat . Finally the RF absorbing foam may absorb yet another portion e.g. a fifth portion of the RF energy that is reflected toward the product or emitted by an upper edge of the curved reflecting element .

Accordingly the RF reflecting apparatus provides a low cost and easy to use solution to testing certain RF emitting devices such as ground facing radar systems without requiring positioning an entire product that contains the RF emitting device in an anechoic chamber.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a system including a product undergoing RF emissions interference testing is shown. The product includes a device under test and an RF radiating device . The RF emissions interference test may be performed to determine whether use of the RF radiating device interferes with operation of the device under test during normal operation of the product .

In the system an RF reflecting apparatus is used to facilitate simulation of normal operation of the product . The RF reflecting apparatus reflects and to some extent absorbs RF signals emitted by the RF radiating device to prevent ground reflections of the RF signals from interfering with the device under test . The RF reflecting apparatus corresponds to the RF reflecting apparatus described with respect to .

The RF reflecting apparatus may be mobile and may be moved into a desired position prior to testing the device under test . For example the RF reflecting apparatus may be moved e.g. translated rotated or both into position under a nose or another portion of the product . Thus the RF reflecting apparatus may be sized for portable testing e.g. capable of being moved into a position under human power . For example the RF reflecting apparatus may be smaller than the product in at least one dimension. This is in contrast for example to RF emissions interference testing in an anechoic chamber where the chamber is generally larger than and surrounds the product under test. Sizing the RF reflecting apparatus smaller than the product enables testing of components of the product such as the device under test on the ground without causing interference due to the ground reflecting RF energy and without use an anechoic chamber.

During the RF emissions interference test a first signal portion of the RF signals emitted by the RF radiating device may be reflected away from the product as reflected RF signal . A second portion of the RF signals emitted by the RF radiating device may be absorbed by RF absorbing portions of the RF reflecting apparatus . The RF absorbing portions may include or correspond to the resistive material the RF absorbing foam or both of . In a particular embodiment the RF absorbing portions includes an RF absorbing foam that in addition to absorbing RF signals is configured to physically isolate the RF reflecting apparatus from the product in order to protect the product from damage due to accidental contact while the RF reflecting apparatus is being moved into position below the product.

Referring to a particular illustrative embodiment of a method of testing components of a product is shown. For example the product may be an aircraft a spacecraft or another platform that includes an RF radiating component. The product may be tested to determine whether operation of the RF radiating component causes electrical interference with another component of the product. To simulated normal operation of the product e.g. operation of the product away from the ground an RF reflecting apparatus such as the RF reflecting apparatus of or the RF reflecting apparatus of may be used. For example the RF reflecting apparatus may include a curved reflecting element and resistive material coupled to the curved reflecting element proximate two or more edges of the curved reflecting element. The resistive material may have a first resistive portion with a first conductance and a second resistive portion with a second conductance that differs from the first conductance. The RF reflecting apparatus may also include a frame coupled to the curved reflecting element and at least one wheel coupled to the frame. The at least one wheel may be configured to enable translation of the curved reflecting member such that the curved reflecting member can be positioned appropriately relative to the product.

The method includes at moving the RF reflecting apparatus from a first position to a second position under the product. The RF reflecting apparatus may be translated e.g. rolled along the ground using the wheel assembly of rotated e.g. turned to have a particular orientation relative to the product or translated and rotated. To illustrate as shown in the RF reflecting apparatus may be moved under the product and rotated such that the reflected RF signals are reflected in a safe direction away from the product .

The method further includes at performing an RF emission interference test of a component e.g. a device under test of the product. During the RF emission interference test the RF reflecting apparatus reflects a first signal portion of an RF signal from the RF radiating component away from the product. In an exemplary embodiment the RF radiating component is a radar array the product is an aircraft a spacecraft a missile or another platform and the device under test is a component of the product that may be subject to RF interference due to RF signals from the RF radiating component. Thus the method enables simplified relatively low cost RF emissions interference testing to be performed without the use of an anechoic chamber.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example method steps may be performed in a different order than is shown in the illustrations or one or more method steps may be omitted. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar results may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features may have been grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect the claimed subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments.

