---

title: Method for tuning a tunable optical transmitter in an optical WDM transmission system and corresponding optical WDM transmission system
abstract: An optical WDM transmission system including a plurality of first optical transceivers at a first end of an optical WDM transmission link, each including a tunable optical transmitter being adapted to create a first digital optical channel signal within the bandwidths of a set of first optical channels of the system according to tuning control information. The first channels are multiplexed in to a first WDM signal and supplied at the first end of the WDM link. Second optical transceivers at a second end link each include a transmitter adapted to create a second digital optical channel signal within a channel bandwidth of a second set of optical channels of the system. The second channels are multiplexed into a second WDM signal for transmission to the first transceivers, and demultiplexing there. A central tuning device creates the tuning control information for the first optical transceivers by tapping off an optical WDM detection signal from the first signal, extracting tuning status information from the optical WDM detection signal and determining tuning control information for at least one of the first transceivers. The central tuning device also supplies the tuning control information to the at least one first transceiver by modulating the second signal according to the tuning control information applying an amplitude modulation of the second signal using a dedicated WDM tone frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344213&OS=09344213&RS=09344213
owner: ADVA Optical Networking SE
number: 09344213
owner_city: Meiningen
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140226
---
This Application claims the benefit of European Application No. 13 001 051.5 filed Mar. 1 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to an optical WDM transmission system including a plurality of first optical transceivers at a first end of an optical WDM transmission link which are to be tuned such that the individual center wavelength of each channel signal created by the first optical receivers lies within a dedicated optical channel of the optical WDM transmission system and or is controlled such that the position of the center wavelength within the dedicated optical channel is optimized. Further the invention relates to a suitable method for tuning a tunable optical transmitter in an optical WDM transmission system as well as to a central tuning device and a first optical transceiver for a respective optical WDM transmission system.

In most optical data transmission applications using optical wavelength division multiplexing WDM the wavelengths of the optical transmitters mostly lasers need to be locked to dedicated channel wavelengths for example according to the ITU wavelength grid with optical frequencies spaced by 100 50 or 25 GHz. For this purpose wavelength lockers are available using optical filter devices like etalons which are periodic with the ITU frequency spacing. The known methods for locking the wavelength or optical frequency of a transmit signal to a dedicated channel frequency use a fixed relative position of the periodical optical transfer function of an optical filter device in order to lock the frequency of the transmitter unit to a fixed position of the respective transmission band of the filter. This fixed position usually corresponds to a center point between the minimum and the maximum point of the filter transfer characteristic.

The non pre published prior European patent application 11 401 589 describes a method and device for locking the optical wavelength or frequency of a plurality of narrow band optical channel transmit signals created by a plurality of optical transceivers to a dedicated optical channel frequency the channel transmit signals having arbitrary channel frequency spacings which allows the use of readily available optical filter devices having a transfer function with a different periodicity. Here a common locking or tuning device is used which creates respective tuning control signals for the tunable optical transmitters. These tuning control signals are directly supplied to the respective optical transmitters. In order to create the tuning control signals an optical WDM detection signal is tapped off from the optical WDM signal including all of the digital optical channel signals. If more than one digital optical channel signal is included in the optical WDM detection signal the digital optical channel signals are amplitude modulated with a given low modulation frequency small as compared to the bitrate and a given predetermined small modulation depth. Thus the tapped off optical WDM detection signal which includes the amplitude modulated digital optical channel signals can be detected at the central tuning device in a phase sensitive manner. This makes it possible to determine a tuning control information separately for each of the digital optical channel signals included in the optical WDM signal or optical WDM detection signal respectively.

Using such a central tuning device saves cost as compared to conventional tunable optical transceivers which usually include a separate wavelength control and wavelength stabilization for each transceiver. The required components like wavelength lockers thermo electric coolers TEC contribute to this cost. Additionally the characterization of each transceiver module to determine the tuning parameters essentially contributes to the overall cost. However this proposed use of a central tuning device requires to locate the central tuning device close to the optical transmitters to be controlled.

It is thus an object of the present invention to provide an optical WDM transmission system in which a plurality of tunable optical transmitters can be controlled from a remote location and which can be realized at low cost. It is a further object of the invention to provide a method for remotely tuning a plurality of tunable optical transmitters in an optical WDM transmission system which can be implemented at low cost. Finally it is an object of the invention to provide a central tuning device and optical transceivers which are suitable for realizing such a method and an optical WDM transmission system.

According to the present invention a central tuning device is used which can be located remote from the transceivers including the tunable optical transmitters and which is adapted to create the tuning control information for one or more selected or all of the first optical transceivers by tapping off an optical WDM detection signal from the first optical WDM signal and by extracting a tuning status information from the optical WDM detection signal and determining tuning control information for at least one of the first transceivers. The central tuning device is further adapted to supply the tuning control information to the at least one first transceiver by modulating the second optical WDM signal according to the tuning control information. For this purpose an amplitude modulation of the second optical WDM signal is applied which is transmitted in the direction towards the optical transceivers including the tunable optical transmitters. The amplitude modulation is effected by using a dedicated WDM tone frequency as a carrier signal. The tuning information is included in this second WDM signal by modulating the WDM tone frequency. Of course the WDM tone frequency is low as compared to the bitrate of the digital optical channel signals included within the second optical WDM signal and the modulation depth of the amplitude modulation is rather small so that the transmission of the digital optical channels signals is practically not influenced by the control channel realized by the amplitude modulation.

According to an embodiment of the invention the central tuning device includes an optical modulator device adapted to amplitude modulate the second optical WDM signal using a WDM tone frequency as a carrier frequency which is modulated according to the tuning control information and the first optical transceivers are adapted to detect the tuning control information included in the WDM tone frequency amplitude modulation of the respective second optical channel signal which is also present within each second digital optical channel signal.

In a further alternative the first optical transceivers apply an amplitude modulation of the respective first digital optical channel signal using a respective dedicated channel tone frequency as a carrier frequency and the central tuning device is adapted to create a tuning status information with respect to one or more selected or all first digital optical channel signals by opto electrically converting the optical WDM detection signal and or an optical signal obtained from the optical WDM detection signal and narrow band filtering the respective converted electrical signal with respect to the dedicated channel tone frequency. The tuning status information characterizes the current spectral position of the respective first digital optical channel signal with respect to a desired spectral position within the respective optical channel and or whether or not a first digital optical channel signal is received within a predetermined optical channel.

The first optical transceivers can be adapted to modulate the respective channel tone frequency according to a signaling information to be transmitted to the central tuning device and the central tuning device can be adapted to detect the signaling information which is included within the amplitude modulation of the first digital optical channel signals.

The signaling information may especially include identification information that is unique for each of the first optical transceivers and the central tuning device uses the identification information within the amplitude modulation of the second optical WDM signal for addressing the tuning control information to the respective first optical transceivers.

According to a further embodiment of the invention the central tuning device may include a detection device including an opto electrical detector adapted to detect the optical WDM detection signal. In this embodiment no filter device serving as a wavelength locking device is needed if the multiplexer device for multiplexing the first digital optical channel signals or any other filter device used within the optical path of each of the first digital optical channel signals or within the path of the first optical WDM signal defines the optical channels the spectral characteristics thereof used in the first optical WDM signal which is detected by the central tuning device.

In another embodiment the central tuning device may include a detection device including at least one optical filter device which receives the optical WDM detection signal as an input signal and which preferably has a periodic transfer function and at least one opto electrical detector adapted to opto electrically detect the at least one optically filtered optical WDM detection signal that has passed through the at least one optical filter device. In this type of embodiment the opto electrically detected signal or a combination of two or more of the opto electrically detected signals especially a ratio of values of two signals may be used as the tuning status information.

The central tuning device may include a control device which is adapted to determine for one or more selected or all first digital optical channel signals the tuning status information using one or more electrical output signals of the at least one opto electrical detector of the detection dell vice which is supplied to the control device and to determine for one or more selected or all first digital optical channel signals a tuning control information using the tuning status information and optionally a tuning reference information such as tuning target values stored in the control device.

According to a further embodiment the central tuning device may include a channel presence detecting device adapted to detect the presence of first optical channel signals within the first optical WDM signal and to provide this information to the control device. The channel presence detecting device makes it possible to detect a situation when two or more first optical transceivers are simultaneously activated without being configured even when the newly added or activated optical transceivers are configured using an amplitude modulation of the respective digital optical channel signal having the same initial tone frequency. The channel presence detecting device may be realized as optical spectrum analyzer. It is however unnecessary to exactly detect the full spectrum or absolute values of the WDM detection signal. It is sufficient to qualitatively detect the presence of newly added first digital optical channel signals in order to determine in which of the predefined optical channels of the first set of channels a selected e.g. a newly added first digital optical channel signal is received.

Each of the first optical transceivers may be adapted to control the respective tunable optical transmitter during a configuration mode such that it transmits the respective first optical channel signal within a first one of the channels of the set of first channels if the first optical transceiver is re activated or activated for the first time the channel tone frequency of the amplitude modulation of the first optical cannel signal being set to a NEW frequency value. In this configuration mode the respective first optical transceiver sweeps the first optical channel signal to a respective next channel of the set of first channels as long as no message directed to the respective optical transceiver is detected in the tuning control information within a preset sweep interval. Of course in this configuration mode the first optical channel signal will not be able to correctly transport information via the respective transmission link. The optical channel signal may be created using an idle pattern instead of including information. The optical channel signal may even be a continuous optical signal merely including the amplitude modulation using the frequency tone at the NEW frequency value.

Having received a respective message the respective first optical transceiver may stop sweeping the optical channels and maintain the transmitted first optical channel signal within the actual optical channel. Further the respective first optical transceiver may switch the channel tone frequency to a dedicated channel tone frequency included in the tuning control information received. This tone frequency is then used for the communication from the respective first optical transceiver to the central tuning device. This rather simple configuration procedure is applicable whenever the second digital optical channel signal of the pair of channel signals for the upstream and downstream direction dedicated to the respective optical transceiver is present already at the beginning of the configuration process. Thus this application is especially suitable for a so called head end tail end configuration in which at the head end of an optical WDM transmission link single fiber or dual fiber link the transceivers are controlled locally so that the downstream digital optical channel signals transmission direction from the head end to the tail end i.e. from the central tuning device to the first optical transceivers comprising the tunable optical transmitters of each pair of optical channels are present already at the time when the configuration process is started at a selected tail end transceiver.

Of course the first optical transceivers can be adapted to start the configuration only if a downstream optical channel signal assigned to the respective transceiver is detected when the configuration mode is started. If a transceiver detects the loss of the respective downstream optical channel signal it may abort the configuration process and or issue an error signal.

In another embodiment concerning a so called symmetric configuration it cannot be assumed or guaranteed that the respective downstream optical channel signals are present at any time at which a configuration process might start for an optical transceiver at the respective other end of the transmission link. In this case a lack of the respective downstream optical channel signal may occur if the respective transceiver with its tunable optical transmitter at the second end of the transmission link is not yet installed or activated or already about to be configured itself. In such applications the optical transceiver which is in the configuration mode may continue to sweep the respective first digital optical channel signal through the optical channels even after having reached the correct optical channel which is usually assigned to the respective output port of the optical transceiver through the filter means included within the optical path e.g. the multiplexer device as long as it does not receive a respective message from the central tuning device within the control information i.e. a message included in the control information transported by the optical WDM detection signal and by the respective optical channel signal that is supplied to the first optical transceiver to be configured .

In this embodiment the first optical transceivers can be adapted to control the respective tunable optical transmitter such that it determines the optical channel to be used from the information included in the tuning control information received and tunes the optical transmitter such that the first optical channel signal is transmitted within this optical channel and that it switches the channel tone frequency to a dedicated channel tone frequency included in the tuning control information received.

Each of the first optical transceivers may be adapted to determine the optical channel to be used from a time difference value included in the tuning control information received and the current time and from the information in which manner the past sweeping process was carried out . This time difference value can determined by the central tuning device as the difference of the current time at which the respective information has been transmitted to the respective first optical receiver by amplitude modulating the respective downstream second optical WDM signal and the time at which the respective new optical channel signal created by the optical transceiver to be configured has been detected by the central tuning device. Of course instead of the time difference value the two respective time values may be included in the tuning information. The information in which manner the past sweeping process was carried out can be stored by the respective optical transceiver e.g. by storing the information at which time the optical transmitter was controlled to create the respective optical channel signal in which optical channel i.e. at which optical center wavelength . This stored information may include the time values at which the switching of the center wavelength of the respective optical channel signal from a current channel to the next channel was effected and the channel information of the current or next channel e.g. a channel number or the center wavelength . For storing this information a table may be used.

Having received a tuning information addressed to it the optical transceiver can determine from the time difference value received and the current time at which the time difference value was received the time at which the central tuning device received the digital optical channel signal and thus using the stored information concerning the past sweeping process the correct channel that has been physically assigned to this optical transceiver.

The control device may be adapted to detect whether and in which optical channel a new first optical channel signal has been added to the optical WDM detection signal using the information provided by the channel presence detecting device and if so to transmit to the respective first optical transceiver as tuning information the information concerning the respective dedicated channel tone frequency.

According to an embodiment of the invention the control device may be adapted to transmit a WAIT AND RESTART information to all first optical transceivers if the control device detects from information provided by the channel presence detecting device the presence of two or more newly added first optical channel signals and those two or more first optical transceivers as a reaction to the receipt of a WAIT AND RESTART information interrupt the sweeping process and restart the configuration process after a given time interval preferably a random time interval.

Each of the optical transceivers coupled to the first or western end of the optical WDM transmission link creates a first digital optical channel signal Sat a specified optical center wavelength so that each of the first digital optical channel signals Scan be transmitted within a dedicated optical channel of a first set of optical channels defined for the optical WDM transmission system . Likewise each of the second optical transceivers connected to the second or eastern end of the optical WDM transmission link is adapted to create a second digital optical channel signal Sat a given center wavelength so that each of these second digital optical channel signals Scan be transmitted within a dedicated optical channel of a second set of optical channels defined for the WDM transmission system . Of course in a dual fiber WDM transmission link as shown in the first and second set of optical channels may not only use the same optical band or overlapping optical bands but the center wavelengths or the optical spectrum of the single optical channels of the first and second set of optical channels may even be identical or overlap. Each of the point to point transmission links uses a dedicated pair of optical channels and optical channel signals S S wherein i 1 . . . n and i n are integer values .

Further each of the first optical receivers at the first end of the WDM transmission link is adapted to receive a selected second digital optical channel signal Sand each of the second transceivers is adapted to receive a selected one of the first digital optical channel signals Sin order to establish a bidirectional communication between a selected transceiver at the western end and a selected transceiver at the eastern end of the WDM transmission link .

According to certain embodiments the PON and the optical transceivers provided at the second end of the WDM transmission link are designed and controlled such that the second optical channel signals Sare present at any time at which one or more of the transceivers at the first end of the WDM transmission link are to be configured or to be fine tuned. In the following such a configuration will be addressed as head end tail end configuration the head end being provided at the second or eastern end and the tail end being provided at the first or western end of the WDM transmission link .

In other embodiments the second optical transceivers at the second end of the WDM transmission link are designed and controlled such that the second optical channel signals Smay not be present at all times at which one or more of the transceivers at the first end of the WDM transmission link are to be configured or to be fine tuned. This is especially the case if the second transceivers are designed with respect to their function identically with the first transceivers as shown in i.e. if also the second transceivers are configurable with respect to the channel used for the second optical channel signals S. This type of configuration will be addressed as symmetric configuration throughout the following description. It shall be noted that for configuring the second transceivers at the second end in such a symmetric configuration a second tuning device may be used which can be designed and which can operate in an analogous manner as will be described below with respect to the central tuning device and the first transceivers at the first end of the WDM transmission link. Of course the same applies to the embodiment according to using a single fiber WDM transmission link .

As explained above shows the western end portion of the WDM transmission system shown in including a given number n of first optical transceivers having an input port for receiving a dedicated second digital optical channel signal Sand an output port for transmitting a first digital optical channel signal S. The first channel signals Sare multiplexed by an optical multiplexer or multiplexing means which receives the digital optical channel signals Sat respective multiplexing or input ports and outputs a first WDM optical channel signal Sincluding the channel signals Screated by all transceivers which are present and activated. A demultiplexer or demultiplexing means receives a second WDM transmission signal Sincluding all optical channel signals Swhich are created at the second or eastern end portion of the WDM transmission system according to . As already mentioned in the configuration shown in the multiplexer and the demultiplexer form the optical PON for connecting the n first optical transceivers to the first or western end of the WDM transmission link as shown in .

For the further description the exact physical configuration of the PON that is used at the first or second end of the WDM transmission system is of secondary importance only. The transceivers may be provided at a central location or may be distributed in order to connect distributed locations to the WDM transmission link . Especially in a distributed configuration of the optical transceivers at either the western or eastern end or at both ends of the WDM transmission link it is desirable to have a central tuning device which is capable of controlling the transceivers in order to simplify the transceivers and thus reduce cost. However a central tuning device may also be used if the transceivers are provided at the same location. Each transceiver is tuned with respect to the center wavelength of the digital channel signals Screated.

In a coarse or channel tuning process the center wavelength of the channel signal Sis tuned such that the channel signal Slies within the optical channel physically assigned to the respective transceiver e.g. by the multiplexer . The coarse tuning may be effected by sweeping the center wavelengths using predetermined discrete values of a control signal each discrete value being assigned to a predetermined optical channel. Of course it must be assured that the channel signal Screated due to a given discrete value of the control signal lies with sufficient accuracy within the dedicated optical channel so that the respective signal is detectable by the central tuning device . In this way it is possible to rather quickly sweep the center wavelength of the channel signal Sthrough the whole band of the first set of optical channels by using the given discrete values of the control signal only instead of continuously sweeping the center wavelength through the whole optical band.

In a fine tuning process which is carried out continuously in given time intervals or on request whenever a transceiver has been activated and coarsely tuned the center wavelength of the channel signal Sis optimized so that it corresponds with the center wavelength of the respective dedicated optical channel.

In the following the terms tuning tuning information and the like relate to both of the aforementioned coarse and fine tuning processes unless reference is explicitly made to a coarse or fine tuning process.

As apparent from each of the optical transceivers which are provided at the western end of the transmission link includes a tunable optical transmitter . The transmitter can be tuned over the whole spectrum of the first set of optical channels. For the sake of simplicity only a single optical transceiver the first one of n transceivers transmitting and receiving the pair of channel signals Sand S is shown in .

The central tuning device according to includes an optical splitter for tapping off an optical WDM detection signal Sfrom the WDM signal S. The optical splitter may simply be realized as an optical power splitter tapping off a rather small portion of the optical power of the WDM signal S.

According to the central tuning device includes a further optical splitter for splitting the WDM detection signal S wherein a first splitting port of the splitter is connected to a detection device and a second splitting port of the splitter is connected to a channel presence detecting device .

The channel presence detecting device has in general the ability to detect digital optical channel signals Swhich are newly added to the first WDM transmission signal Sand the WDM detection signal S Respectively and in which Optical Channel of the First Set of optical channels a selected especially a newly added digital optical channel signal Sis received. For this purpose of course a means having the abilities of a full optical spectrum analyzer could be used. However as a qualitative detection is required only a simplified device is sufficient just being capable to detect the presence of an optical channel signal within an optical channel so that an assignment of the signal especially a newly detected signal to the correct optical channel can be made.

The detection device includes at least one opto electrical detector such as a photodiode for detecting the optical WDM detection signal S. The detection device may further include at least one optical filter device which receives the optical WDM detection signal Sas an input signal and which preferably has a periodic transfer function. Instead of the at least one opto electrical detector for directly detecting the WDM detection signal Sor in addition thereto at least one further opto electrical detector may be provided for detecting the at least one optically filtered WDM detection signal that has passed through the at least one optical filter device the WDM detection signal may be split and provided to the respective input port of each of the optical filters .

The opto electrically converted signals are supplied to a control device adapted to receive and process the opto electrically converted signals received from the detection device and to receive and process an output signal from the channel presence detecting device .

The control device processes the opto electrically converted signals supplied from the detection device and the information included in the signal supplied from the channel presence detecting device to determine the tuning status information. This tuning status information may especially include information as to whether a new optical channel signal Shas been added to the WDM signal S in which optical channel of the first set of optical channels the newly added channel signal has been received and information concerning the fine tuning status of the digital optical channel signals included in the WDM signal S i.e. information that can be used by the control device to control the tunable optical transmitters of the optical transceivers such that the respective digital optical channel signals Sare optimally positioned within the bandwidth of the respective optical channel.

An advantageous method for detecting fine tuning information and fine tuning the optical transceivers is described in the non prepublished European patent application no. 11 401 589.4 filed on Sep. 12 2011 An optical frequency locking method and device for optical data transmission of the applicant. The disclosure of this prior application is herewith fully incorporated by reference.

As explained in this prior European patent application each optical transceiver is adapted to impress an amplitude modulation using a dedicated rather low frequency as a further information carrier signal onto the respective digital optical channel signal S. The respective carrier frequency is assigned to each of the optical transceivers by the central tuning device and is unique for each of the digital optical channel signals Sso that the information included in this control channel transported by each digital channel signal Scan be detected at the central tuning device by electrically narrow band pass filtering an electrical signal which is obtained by opto electrically converting the WDM detection signal Sor an optically filtered signal that has been obtained from the WDM detection signal. In this way the control device is capable of detecting any information included in the control channel using the amplitude modulation at a channel specific carrier frequency. This additional control channel included in each digital optical channel signal Smay include on the one hand digital information for example identification information like an ID number and on the other hand the analog information included in the average power of the signal included in the amplitude modulation. While the analog information can be used to detect and optimize the center wavelength of the respective digital optical channel signal Swith respect to the dedicated optical channel the digital information is especially useful during the configuration or coarse tuning process which is carried out if an optical transceiver has been newly added and activated for the first time or if an optical transceiver has been switched off and is again reactivated.

The control device is adapted to carry out the process for configuring a newly added and activated or reactivated optical transceiver as well as to perform the fine tuning of the tunable optical transmitters included within the optical transceivers . The fine tuning can be effected continuously or periodically or on request.

In any case the control device determines tuning control information using the signals supplied and if applicable information stored in the control device . The control device outputs a modulation signal Sincluding the tuning control information and supplies the modulation signal Sto an optical modulator device of the central tuning device . The optical modulator device is provided in the downstream path of the second optical WDM signal Stransmitted from the second end to the first end of the optical WDM transmission link . The optical modulator device modulates the second optical WDM signal S with respect to its optical power according to the modulation signal Susing an amplitude modulation. For this amplitude modulation as in the case of the amplitude modulation of the optical channel signals S a rather low carrier frequency as compared to the bitrate of the digital optical channel signal S S is used. This carrier frequency has a characteristic frequency which in the following is designated as WDM tone frequency f.

As the optical power of the second WDM signal Sis modulated this amplitude modulation is impressed on each of the second optical channel signals Sin the same manner. A simple way to effect this amplitude modulation is the use of a variable optical attenuator VOA as an optical modulator device the optical attenuation being dependent on the modulation signal S. Thus a downstream control channel is realized for each of the second digital optical channel signals Sincluded in the second optical WDM signal S. The tuning control information determined by the control device for one or more selected or all of the transceivers can be transmitted to the respective transceiver by creating the modulation signal Ssuch that a carrier signal at the WDM tone frequency fis digitally modulated according to the tuning control information.

The digital tuning control information may include identification information for addressing a selected transceiver and the actual tuning information. The actual tuning information may include information concerning the carrier frequency for amplitude modulating the respective first digital optical channel signal S i.e. concerning the channel tone frequency fto be used by the respective transceiver a channel number time information or time difference information and information for fine tuning the center frequency of the respective digital optical channel signal.

As apparent from each of the optical receivers receives the demultiplexed optical channel signal Sat an input port of an optical receiver . The optical receiver processes the channel signal Sreceived and outputs a respective digital electrical channel signal for further processing. The optical receiver is further adapted to detect the tuning information included in the amplitude modulation of the optical channel signal Sand supplies this information to a controller unit . The information included in the downstream control channel realized by the amplitude modulation of the second channel signals Sis examined by the control unit as to whether all or part of the information is addressed to the respective transceiver . If so the controller unit extracts the information addressed to the respective transceiver and uses this information for tuning the center wavelength of the optical transmitter and for additionally controlling the optical transmitter such that an optical channel signal Sis created including an amplitude modulation at a desired channel tone frequency f. As explained above this amplitude modulation realizing an upstream control channel within each of the optical digital channel signals Smay be created such that in addition to the use of a characteristic dedicated channel tone frequency f digital information can be transmitted to the central tuning device .

A further embodiment of an optical WDM transmission system is shown in . This embodiment differs from the embodiment shown in only in that a single fiber optical WDM transmission link is used instead of a dual fiber optical WDM transmission link . Thus for the following description components or features identical to the embodiment shown in are referred to using identical reference signs.

As shown in in case of a single fiber WDM transmission link the central tuning device as compared to the central tuning device in further includes a first and second means for optically combining separating the optical paths of the first and second WDM signal Sand S respectively. The means for optically combining separating the optical paths of the WDM signals S Sare provided to the left and right of the optical splitter . The optical modulator device is provided within the optical signal path guiding the optical WDM signal Sbetween an output port of the means provided downstream with respect to the transmission direction of the signal S of the optical splitter and an input port of the means provided upstream of the optical splitter . The means may be realized as optical circulators or optical diplexers. Of course optical diplexers are only applicable if the first and second sets of optical channels do not use identical or overlapping optical bands. The means provided upstream of the optical splitter is adapted to receive the optical WDM signal Sat a common first port and transmits this signal to a second port that is connected to the optical splitter and a second port of the means provided downstream of the splitter . Further the means provided upstream of the splitter is adapted to receive the second modulated WDM signal Sfrom the optical modulator at a third port and to transmit this signal at the common first port. Likewise the means provided downstream of the optical splitter is adapted to receive the optical WDM signal Sat a common first port and transmits this signal to a third port that is connected to the optical modulator . Further the means provided downstream of the splitter is adapted to receive the first WDM signal Sat the second port that is connected to the optical splitter and to transmit this signal at the common first port.

As apparent from the PON for connecting the optical transceivers to the first or first and second end of the optical WDM transmission link includes means for optically combining separating the optical paths of the optical WDM signals Sand Swhich are transmitted to and received from the second end of the single fiber WDM transmission link . As combining separating means an optical circulator may be used which is adapted to output the WDM signal Sreceived from the first end of the WDM transmission link in direction to the input port of the demultiplexer and to output the WDM signal Sreceived from the output port of the multiplexer to the first end of the WDM transmission link . Of course if separate optical bands for the first and second sets of optical channels are used an optical diplexer may be used instead of an optical circulator.

Apart from these differences the central tuning device shown in and the transceivers shown in are practically identical with the central tuning device in the dual fiber embodiment so reference can be made to the above description especially with respect to the functional features and the method realized by the central tuning device and the transceivers .

In the following the configuration i.e. the coarse tuning and the fine tuning of the optical transceivers will be described referring to embodiments including a central tuning device as shown in which is adapted to centrally and also remotely control the configuration i.e. the coarse tuning and fine tuning of the optical transceivers connected to the first end of the optical WDM transmission link .

First the coarse tuning of a newly added or reactivated optical transceiver will be described assuming a head end tail end configuration the tail end being the portion at the first or western end and the head end being the portion at the second or eastern end of the optical WDM transmission system according to and respectively. As mentioned above in such a head end tail end configuration it is generally assumed that the second optical channel signals Sare present apart from a failure situation at any time at which a first transceiver at the tail end is to be configured.

The process starts by continuously or periodically detecting whether a new first digital optical channel signal Shas been added to the WDM detection signal S. This information is delivered by the optical channel presence device that supplies a respective signal to the control device referred to as OSA in . For reasons of simplicity the digital optical channel signals Sare referred to as new wavelength in the flow diagrams of . If a new channel signal has been detected the control device checks whether more than one new channel signal is detected as this would lead to a failure situation due to the simplified detection of the optical channel signals Sin the detection device . If two or more newly added and thus not configured optical channel signals are detected the control device sends using the downstream control channel realized by the amplitude modulation of the second channel signals S a new lasers wait and restart message to all optical transceivers the optical transmitters of the optical transceivers are referred to as lasers in the flow diagrams according to . Sending this message to all transceivers is required as the unconfigured transceivers cannot yet be addressed correctly.

If a single new optical channel signal Sis detected the control device reads the information of the respective control channel included within the newly detected optical channel signal Swhich is obtained by electrically narrow band filtering a selected electrical signal supplied by the detection device including the information of all control channels included within the first digital optical channel signals S see above .

As a newly added or unconfigured transceiver uses a unique channel tone frequency having a value fas carrier frequency for the control channel in the first channel signal Sthe control unit applies a narrow band filtering with a respectively adjusted band filter so that the information included in the control channel of the single new optical channel signal Sis detected.

The control unit then reads the ID information idof the new transceiver or the respective optical transmitter included in the transceiver and reads the dedicated channel tone frequency ffrom a table stored in the control unit including the assignment of unique channel tone frequencies fto the predefined channels of the first set of optical channels. For this selection the channel information included in the signal supplied from the channel presence device is used. The information concerning the dedicated selected channel tone frequency fis transmitted to the respective transceiver through the downstream control channel that is received by all transceivers . The respective transceiver which has first sent the optical channel signal including the control channel at the fchannel tone frequency is addressed using the idas ID information.

In a next step the control device monitors the control channel using the channel tone frequency fthat has been sent to the new transceiver i.e. the transceiver to be currently configured until an acknowledgement message is received. As long as the control unit does not receive the acknowledgement message it repeats to send the channel tone frequency information fto the new transceiver. If the acknowledgement message is received the configuration process at the master is finished.

The process starts with a detection of an RX signal i.e. the respective second digital optical channel signal Sassigned to and received by the selected transceiver. As long as this signal is not received e.g. due to a failure situation at the second or head end of the transmission system the step of detecting the presence of the channel signal Sis carried out. If the signal is present the control unit of the transceiver sets a counter to i 1 and starts with a loop in which the wavelength of the first digital optical channel signal Sis swept through the optical channels of the first set of optical channels. In this loop the control unit first controls the optical transmitter to transmit the first optical channel signal at an optical wavelength corresponding to a first optical channel of the first set of optical channels. Additionally the control unit controls the transmitter to use the unique value ffor the channel tone frequency and to transmit within this control channel the ID information of this transceiver or transmitter .

Then the control unit detects the signal of the control channel included within the respective second optical channel signal S the control channel is referred to as RX tone in received using the WDM tone frequency f as to whether a message new lasers wait and restart is received this message is received if an additional transceiver starts the configuration process at essentially the same time see above . If so the control unit waits for a random time interval and repeats the steps of controlling the wavelength and sending the ID information on the control channel at the frequency f. Otherwise the control unit checks the signal of the downstream control channel at fas to whether a message for the respective transceiver is received i.e. digital information in the downstream control channel is addressed to the respective transceiver . If no such information is received within a predetermined time interval the control unit increases the counter by one i i 1 and repeats the steps of controlling the wavelength and sending the ID information on the control channel at the frequency f. Thus in this next run through the loop the optical transmitter is controlled to send the first optical channel signal such that it corresponds to a next optical channel.

This loop is run through at the maximum until all optical channels of the first set of optical channels have been used for transmitting the first digital optical channel signal S. If no response from the central tuning device is received after having sent in the last optical channel the control unit may either start a new sweeping process or create an error signal. For reasons of simplicity this behavior of the configuration process at the slave i.e. the respective transceiver to be configured is not shown in .

If the control unit detects a message addressed to the transceiver which includes the dedicated channel tone frequency fit sets the carrier frequency of the control channel of the first channel signal to this value and transmits an acknowledgement message on the control channel. Having done so the control unit finishes the configuration process.

The following description merely takes into account a configuration of the transmitters at the first or western end of the WDM transmission link . However the transmitters at the second or eastern end may of course also be configured in the same way by means of a central tuning device that is adapted to receive the second WDM signal Sfrom the second end and to transmit information on a WDM control channel included in the first optical WDM signal S. A respective central tuning device may of course be designed to be practically identical with the central tuning devices shown in respectively. However the optical modulator of the respective central tuning device must be provided within the optical path of the optical WDM signal Sthat is transmitted in the direction to the second end .

As shown in in a first process the control monitors the appearance of a new wavelength i.e. a new optical channels signal Sincluded in the WDM signal Sand the WDM detection signal Ssplit off therefrom using the signal or information supplied by the channel presence device . This monitoring is carried out until a new wavelength is detected.

If a new channel signal is detected the control device reads the ID information transmitted by the newly added or reactivated transceiver or the respective optical transmitter and assigns a dedicated unique channel tone frequency fto this new transceiver . As already mentioned the assignment rule may be included in a table stored in the control device . In a next step the control unit writes the ID information the channel tone frequency fassigned and a value according to the time at which the ID information of the new optical channel signal Shas been read on the signal control channel using the channel tone frequency f to a current configuration table.

Of course it might accidentally happen that two or more newly added or reactivated transmitters almost simultaneously start to transmit respective channel signals at the correct optical wavelength i.e. the center wavelength of the optical channel defined by the optical path to which the respective transceiver has been connected . As all of these transceivers use the channel tone frequency fthe control device cannot decide which ID information has been transmitted by which of the two or more newly added or reactivated transceivers. It might even happen that two messages in two or more signal control channels which all use the channel tone frequency f arrive almost simultaneously at the central tuning device so that the signals interfere and the ID information of the respective transmitters cannot be detected correctly.

However as the process shown in is run continuously or at least as long as a new channel signal Sis likely to be detected or until all channels defined for the respective WDM transmission system are used and the loop time of the process is rather low the above explained problematic situations are rather unlikely to occur. Nevertheless it is within the ordinary skill of an expert to take suitable measures to either avoid these problematic situations or to take suitable measures to solve such problematic situations e.g. by detecting the situation and add additional steps to the process in like an additional step in which a message is sent to all transmitters causing the newly added transceivers to stop and restart the configuration process see at a random time interval. Alternatively this problem of not correctly detecting the respective signal and the ID information may be ignored as the tunable optical transmitters can be controlled to continue with the sweeping process so that the channel signals may be correctly detected during the next or one of the following sweeps.

According to a further process shown in the control device continuously transmits the information included in the current configuration table to the respective optical transmitters wherein in addition the current time information timenow is added. Instead of a transmission of a separate timenow value a time difference timenow time may be sent to the respective transmitter on the downstream control channel.

The transceiver which receives such a configuration message controls the transmitter such that the respective digital optical channel signal is created at the correct optical wavelength and that the optical channel signal includes a control channel at the dedicated channel tone frequency f see the description below . Additionally the transceiver transmits an acknowledgement message that is read by the control device of the central tuning device by a further process as shown in . As apparent from the control device continuously reads the incoming messages on all control channels included in the optical channel signals S. If an acknowledgement message is received on a selected control channel using a channel tone frequency fthe control device clears the respective ID from the current configuration table. The configuration process for the transceiver having this ID is then finished.

Of course all loop processes shown in are run continuously by the control device if applicable using a given delay time within the respective loop . The loops according to are run at least as long as the current configuration table includes information for given ID information.

As apparent from a newly added or reactivated transceiver sweeps the optical frequency of the respective transmitter over the optical channels of the first set of channel. As the loop is rather similar to and the flow diagram is practically self explaining the following description is limited to the essential differences. In each cycle of the loop the information concerning the loop counter i relating to the optical wavelength of the optical channel signal Screated during this loop cycle and the time at which the channel signal has been switched to this wavelength and at which the respective ID information has been sent on the respective control channel using the channel tone frequency f is stored preferably written to a table.

In each cycle of the loop the control unit detects the messages included within the downstream control channel in the term RX tone refers to the respective control channel at fincluded in the channel signal Sreceived by the transceiver and addressed to the respective transceiver for a predetermined duration or time interval t which is chosen long enough to receive all information sent by the central tuning device in a cycle of the loop according to .

If no message at all is received or only messages addressed to other transceivers are received the loop counter is increased by one and a new cycle is started during which the optical channel signal is created at the center wavelength of a next optical channel. If the sweeping process has been effected for the last optical channel and no message addressed to the respective transceiver has been received a full new sweeping process is started beginning with the first optical channel i.e. the loop counter i is reset to i 1.

If a message addressed to the respective receiver is detected the control unit determines the time at which the central tuning device detected the optical channel signal created by the respective transceiver using the current time at the transceiver and the time information received via the downstream control channel i.e. the time difference information timenow time or the time information timenow and time see above . This receiving time is neglecting the double signal delay time equal to the time at which the respective channel signal at the correct channel wavelength has been sent by the transceiver this time is referred to as TX time in . Thus the control unit can determine the correct wavelength using the time information included in the table and the calculated time information and control the optical transmitter such that it creates the digital optical channel signal at the correct center wavelength. Further the transmitter is controlled such that the channel signal includes the control channel with the dedicated channel tone frequency f. The transceiver finishes the configuration process with the transmission of an acknowledgment message on the control channel.

This configuration procedure according to and allows the use of tunable and also configurable transceivers at both ends of the transmission link as the method takes into account the delayed transmission of the information between the transceivers and the central tuning device .

The fine tuning information is determined at the central tuning device by detecting and if applicable processing and evaluating the information included in the opto electrically converted WDM detection signal Sor one or more optically filtered WDM detection signals as explained above.

Referring generally to the forgoing description as used herein the terms comprising including carrying having containing involving and the like are to be understood to be open ended that is to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of respectively shall be considered exclusionary transitional phrases as set forth with respect to claims in the United States Patent and Trademark Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures. Any use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed. Rather unless specifically stated otherwise such ordinal terms are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term .

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art after appreciating this specification that the conception and specific embodiments disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The combinations of features described herein should not be interpreted to be limiting and the features herein may be used in any working combination or sub combination according to the invention. This description should therefore be interpreted as providing written support under U.S. patent law and any relevant foreign patent laws for any working combination or some subcombination of the features herein.

Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

