---

title: Synthesis of biobased and substituted terephthalic acids and isophthalic acids
abstract: Methods for producing bio-terephthalic acid and bio-isophthalic acid are provided. The methods comprise a cycloaddition reaction to produce bio-4-methyl-3-cyclohexene-1-carboxylic acid, and bio-3-methyl-3-cyclohexene-1-carboxylic from bio-isoprene and bio-acrylic acid. An aromatization reaction produces bio-para-toluic acid and bio-meta-toluic acid from the bio-4-methyl-3-cyclohexene-1-carboxylic acid, and bio-3-methyl-3-cyclohexene-1-carboxylic. An oxidation reaction produces the bio-terephthalic acid and iso-phthalic acid from the bio-para-toluic acid and bio-meta-toluic acid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09499465&OS=09499465&RS=09499465
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 09499465
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application is a 371 U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2014 029422 filed Mar. 14 2014 and published in English as WO 2014 144843 A1 on Sep. 18 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 798 968 filed Mar. 15 2013. The entire disclosures of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CHE1213299 by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Plastic bottles are used to package a variety of consumer products including food beverage cosmetic personal care and cleaning products. For example on average every person uses about 168 plastic water bottles every year with over 100 million water bottles used worldwide every day. The U.S. population alone uses about 60 million plastic water bottles every day. In Europe another 30 million plastic water bottles are used daily.

Increased concern regarding environmental problems and climate change has led to a heightened awareness of the composition of products how they are made and how they are disposed when they have reached the end of their useful lives. It takes about 700 years before plastic bottles begin to decompose and it can take up to about 1000 years for a plastic bottle to fully decompose. Moreover the plastic used in bottles is largely derived from petroleum which is a non renewable resource the supply of which can be subject to economic fluctuations and geopolitical concerns. Due to the environmental problems associated with manufacturing water bottles large companies such as Coca Cola Co. Pepsi Co. Ford Motor Co. H. J. Heinz Co. Nike Inc. and Procter Gamble Co. are trying to develop plant based plastic packaging products.

Many food and beverage bottles are composed of petroleum based poly ethylene terephthalate PET . PET is manufactured by polymerization of terephthalic acid with ethylene glycol. Isophthalic acid is added to the polymerization at about 5 by weight to inhibit crystallization. The terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid used to synthesize PET are typically derived from xylene which is isolated from BTX aromatics benzene toluene and ortho meta and para xylene produced from crude oil. Over 150 billion liters of oil are used each year for plastic bottle manufacturing.

The cost and availability of materials used in PET may be affected by the overall economics of petroleum production relative to competing carbon sources. In particular the increase in the production and use of shale gas around the world is adversely affecting the availability of certain petroleum based products. On a per million British thermal unit BTU basis U.S. shale gas carbon is fourfold less expensive than crude oil carbon and fivefold less expensive than carbon from maize. Consequently production resources in the refining and petrochemical industry are shifting from petroleum to shale gas decreasing the production of BTX aromatics. For example the closure of Sunoco s Marcus Hook refinery in Pennsylvania alone removed about 19 000 barrels per day of aromatics from the market. The result from these market forces is to increase the cost of PET as the supply of BTX aromatics decreases.

As an alternative to synthesizing PET from petrochemicals terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid can be synthesized from isoprene and acrylic acid. A synthesis of terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid involves a pathway that begins with a cycloaddition reaction between isoprene and acrylic acid that yields 3 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid and 4 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid. These products can be ultimately converted to terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid. It has been found that this synthetic pathway may be an economically advantageous route to produce these materials for use in manufacturing PET and other industrial chemicals since the starting materials can be produced from renewable resources. Until recently there were no bio based sources of isoprene and acrylic acid. However a joint venture between Ajinomoto Inc. and Bridgestone Corp. has led to a development of bio isoprene which is used to manufacture synthetic rubber for tires. Bio isoprene is produced by fermenting microbes growing in a biomass feedstock. Additionally OPX Biotechnologies Inc. has developed bio acrylic acid also by fermenting genetically modified microbes on a biomass feedstock of dextrose corn or sucrose cane .

Nevertheless the art does not provide a method to use bio isoprene and bio acrylic acid can be used to generate bio terephthalate and bio isophthalate in an efficient and cost effective manner. There remains a need to manipulate the pathway in order to effectively generate terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid particularly in the desired relative yields so as to be used in producing PET. Such a method would enable the production of PET packaging having 100 carbon content derived from renewable feedstocks.

The present technology provides methods for producing terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid. The method comprises a cycloaddition reaction of isoprene and acrylic acid to produce 3 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid and 4 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid aromatization to produce meta and para toluic acid and oxidation to produce isophthalic and terephthalic acid. In various embodiments the isoprene and acrylic acid are bio based.

In various embodiments the cycloaddition reaction is catalyzed. Suitable catalysts include Lewis acids. A preferred catalyst comprises Ti such as TiCl. Preferably the cycloaddition is a neat reaction.

In various embodiments the aromatization reaction is conducted using sulfuric acid or catalysts conventionally used in vapor phase dehydrogenation or oxidation reactions. In a preferred embodiment the aromatization is a vapor phase dehydrogenation using a Pd catalyst such as Pd 0 on carbon. Catalysts for the oxidation reaction include N hydroxyphthalimide NHPI N hydroxysuccinimide NHSI N hydroxymaleimide NHMI N hydroxy 1 8 naphthalimide NHNI and carbonic acid tert butyl phthalimido ester CATPE .

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings. It should be noted that the figures set forth herein are intended to exemplify the general characteristics of materials compositions devices and methods among those of the present technology for the purpose of the description of certain embodiments. These figures may not precisely reflect the characteristics of any given embodiment and are not necessarily intended to fully define or limit specific embodiments within the scope of this technology.

The following description of technology is merely exemplary in nature of the composition manufacture and use of one or more inventions and is not intended to limit the scope application or uses of any specific invention claimed in this application or in such other applications as may be filed claiming priority to this application or patents issuing therefrom. A non limiting discussion of terms and phrases intended to aid understanding of the present technology is provided at the end of this Detailed Description.

In various embodiments the isoprene and acrylic acid are bio based i.e. are bio isoprene and bio acrylic acid to make bio based terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid. As referred to herein bio based materials are made from substantially renewable resources produced or synthesized using at least one starting material that is not derived from a fossil fuel e.g. petroleum coal and natural gas . Bio based materials may be made from plant materials or through fermentation or other microbial production processes.

Bio isoprene may be made for example from fermenting microbes growing in a biomass feedstock. For example Whited et al. Ind. Biotechnol. 2010 6 3 152 163 describe various platforms for generating bio isoprene from in engineered bacteria from renewable feedstocks. These platforms include engineered recombinant bacteria that have a heterologous isoprene synthase gene which is derived from plants. Also Hayashi et al. International Publication No. WO 2013 179722 published Dec. 5 2013 describe methods for producing bio isoprene monomer in various bacteria and fungi with various saccharides as a source of carbon. These methods include engineering bacteria and fungi with an isoprene synthase gene from plants which enables the bacteria and fungi to biosynthesize isoprene. Whited et al. and Hayashi et al. are both incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Bio acrylic acid may be made by fermenting genetically modified microbes on a biomass feedstock of dextrose corn or sucrose cane . For example Kumar et al. Biotechnol. Adv. 2013 31 945 961 describe various methods for synthesizing 3 hydroxypropionic acid 3 HP which can be converted into acrylic acid from various prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Also Devroe et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0203070 published Aug. 13 2009 describe methods for producing bio acrylic acid from hyperphotosynthetic organisms such as various plants algae and bacteria. Additionally Lynch et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0071893 published Mar. 21 2013 describe a process for generating bio acrylic acid from recombinant bacterial and yeast microorganisms which rely on various monosaccharides such as glucose and fructose oligosaccharides such as lactose and sucrose and polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose as sources of carbon. Kumar et al. Devroe et al and Lynch et al. are all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In various embodiments the terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid made by the methods of the present invention polymerized with ethylene glycol to yield poly ethylene terephthalate PET . PET may be used for example in making fibers packaging such as food and beverage containers and bottles. In some embodiments methods comprise reacting bio isoprene with a substituted bio alkene so as to make substituted terephthalates and isophthalates. Such materials may be used for example as performance enhancing additives in polyester applications.

Methods of the present technology comprise a Diels Alder cycloaddition reaction in which a diene reacts with a dienophile a substituted or unsubstituted alkene to form a substituted or unsubstituted cyclohexene product. In some embodiments the cycloaddition reaction includes a bio diene and or a bio dienophile. The diene can be isoprene or bio isoprene. The dienophile can be an alkene a bio alkene a substituted alkene a substituted bio alkene acrylic acid or bio acrylic acid. In one embodiment the diene is bio isoprene and the dienophile is bio acrylic acid. Referring again to when the diene is bio isoprene and the dienophile is bio acrylic acid bio isoprene and bio acrylic acid undergo a cycloaddition reaction to form 4 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid the para product and 3 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid the meta product . In some embodiments the cycloaddition reaction is performed to yield a para product meta product ratio that ultimately yields a terephthalic acid isophthalic acid ratio useful for PET production. For example because the synthesis of PET requires about 95 terephthalic acid and about 5 isophthalic acid in various embodiments the cycloaddition reaction is performed to result in a para product meta product ratio of about 10 1. In other embodiments the para meta product ratio is about 100 1 about 90 1 about 80 1 about 70 1 about 60 1 about 50 1 about 40 1 about 30 1 about 25 1 about 20 1 about 15 1 about 10 1 about 9.5 1 about 9 1 about 8.5 1 about 8.0 1 about 7.5 1 or about 7.0 1. In a preferred embodiment the cycloaddition reaction produces 100 para product.

Optionally the ratio of para to meta products produced from the cycloaddition reaction is controlled by use of a catalyst. For example with no catalyst present combining isoprene and acrylic acid collectively the reaction mixture at a 1 1 molar ratio and then autoclaving at 95 C. for about 2 hours results in the production of 75 25 para meta product. By repeatedly recrystallizing the para product from cold hexane 0 C. 5 C. pure para product can be isolated at about a 59 yield. In some embodiments the cycloaddition reaction is performed under pressure. The pressure can be from about 75 psi to about 200 psi. In some embodiments the pressure is changed over time. In yet other embodiments heat is added to the reaction from about 80 C. to about 95 C. For example the cycloaddition reactants can be pressurized to about 120 psi under N g . The reaction mixture can then be heated to about 95 C. and stirred for about 2 hours at about 150 psi. When the 2 hours expires the reaction mixture can be cooled. As mentioned the products can be recrystallized from hexane and purified.

Various catalysts can be used to influence the ratio of para meta products formed form the cycloaddition reaction. Preferably the cycloaddition reaction is conducted using a Lewis acid catalyst. In some embodiments the Lewis acid catalyst is an ionic liquids such as pyridinium based 1 ethyl pyridinium tetrafluoroborate EtPy BF and 1 ethyl pyridinium trifluoroacetate EtPy CFCOO . Using EtPy BF or EtPy CFCOO as solvents for isoprene and acrylic acid and incubating for about 2 hours can result in para meta product ratios of 82 18 and 95 5 respectively.

Boronic acid catalysts can be also used to manipulate cycloaddition products. In the cycloaddition reaction 1 isoprene and acrylic acid can be combined in about a 2 1 ratio in water and dichlormethane DCM . Performing the reaction with 2 bromophenyl boronic acid as a catalyst for about 48 hours at room temperature can yield about 91 4 para meta products.

Catalysis leading to acyloxyborane and acylboronate intermediacy can enhance para selectivity in the cycloaddition of acrylic acid and isoprene. Use of BH 15 mol and 2 bromophenylboronic acid 20 mol affords 80 90 yields of 4 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid para product cycloaddition product in CHCl. However the solvent choice relatively high mol catalyst requirement and the multiple steps expense for synthesis of BHand 2 bromophenylboronic acid detracts from their potential utility in commodity chemical synthesis. Lewis acid catalysis of the cycloaddition is an attractive alternative.

In various embodiments the cycloaddition reaction is catalyzed using a Lewis acid catalyst comprising aluminum copper hafnium magnesium nickel iron yttrium zinc zirconium scandium tin or titanium anions. Because of their ability to modulate Lewis acidity triflates chlorides and bromides can be used as counteranions. For example Lewis acids useful herein may be selected from the group consisting of CuCl CuCl NiCl YCl FeCl AlCl FeCl ZnCl MgCl TiCl SnCl ScCl SnCl HfCl ZrCl and TiCl. In some embodiments Cu Fe and Sncan result in violent reactions which require an addition of diisopropylethylamine DIPEA triethyl amine or lutidine to avoid. In some embodiments however violent reactions are avoided by the use of chloride as the counter anion without the addition of DIPEA triethyl amine or lutidine. A preferred Lewis acid catalyst is TiCl.

In various embodiments the cycloaddition is conducted under neat conditions i.e. as a reaction conducted essentially without solvents. Such reaction conditions are advantageous avoiding potential toxicity volatility and recycling issues that may be associated with solvent use. Therefore in various embodiments the cycloaddition reaction can be performed under neat reaction conditions in the presence of a catalyst such as a Lewis acid catalyst. In a preferred embodiment the cycloaddition of isoprene and acrylic acid is a neat reaction using TiClas a catalyst.

Neat reactions can be performed for example by first adding acrylic acid to the Lewis acid followed by addition of isoprene. The acrylic acid is added to the Lewis acid under an inert gas such as Ar Ne or He although the use of inert gas is not required for the subsequent addition of isoprene. The reaction may be conducted at a temperature from about 30 C. to about 30 C. In various embodiments the reaction proceeds for from at least about 1 hour at least about 10 hours or at least about 24 hours. In various embodiments the reaction proceeds for about 120 hours or less for about 100 hours or less or for from about 48 hours or less. In one embodiment the reaction proceeds for about 24 hours. In some embodiments the reaction is conducted at from about 25 C. to about 5 C. for from about 24 hours to about 120 hours or from about 20 C. to about 0 C. for from about 48 hours to about 100 hours. In some embodiments the reaction is conducted at ambient room temperature conditions i.e. at from about 20 C. to about 25 C. for from about 1 hour to about 48 hours. In some embodiments the reaction is initiated at a reduced temperature such as from about 20 C. to about 0 C. and then allowed to warm to room temperature where the reaction proceeds for from about 1 hour to about 48 hours.

With reference to the aromatization reaction can be a solvent phase reaction an oxidative dehydrogenation or a vapor phase reaction. For example the aromatization may comprise an HSOoxidation of the para and meta cycloaddition products to form para toluic acid and meta toluic acid. In an HSOoxidation concentrated sulfuric acid may be added dropwise to one or both of 4 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid and 3 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid to form a mixture. The mixture can be heated from about 80 C. to about 100 C. for about 5 minutes to about 20 minutes with vigorous bubbling of SO. Cessation of SObubbling marks the completion of the reaction. The reaction mixture is then poured into ice to precipitate solid toluic acid which can be collected by vacuum filtration to isolate a filtrate. The filtrate can be extracted with ethyl acetate EtOAc from 1 to about 5 times and organic layers are combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to form a toluic acid concentrate. The concentrate can be dissolved in EtOAc and filtered through a plug of silica gel to isolate a EtOAc filtrate followed by washing of the silica gel with EtOAc. In another embodiment the concentrate is distilled through silica gel such as in a Kugelrohr distillation procedure. The EtOAc filtrate can be concentrated and recrystallized to afford purified toluic acid.

As mentioned above the aromatization reaction can involve a vapor phase catalytic dehydrogenation of the para and meta cycloaddition products to form para toluic acid and meta toluic acid. Catalysts used in the aromatization reaction include such catalysts that are known in the art for use in catalytic dehydrogenation or catalytic oxidation reactions. Catalysts include chromium molybdenum iridium rhodium ruthenium nickel palladium platinum vanadium iron and manganese. In some embodiments the catalyst is nickel platinum or palladium.

In various embodiments the aromatization reaction is catalyzed by a catalyst on a substrate. The substrate can be carbon silica alumina titania or zirconia. In a preferred embodiment the catalyst is a Pd 0 on carbon Pd C catalyst. For example a Pd C catalyst can be added to one or both of 4 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid and 3 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid to form a suspension. For example the suspension can be refluxed for about 3 hours to about 8 hours under air and then filtered through Celite commercialized by Sigma Aldrich Co. St. Louis Mo. to produce a filtrate. Concentrating the filtrate results in formation toluic acid residue. The dehydrogenation may be conducted at temperatures ranging from about 35 C. to about 500 C. or from about 100 C. to about 400 C. at from about 1 mm to about 750 mm of pressure. In one embodiment a para cycloaddition product is distilled at from about 50 mm to about 100 mm and from about 100 C. to about 300 C. through Pd on C dispersed in macroporous silica gel. In another embodiment a homogenous oxidation of para cycloaddition product is performed in mesitylene at from about 75 C. to about 150 C. under Ocatalyzed by Pd triflate unliganded or liganded with 2 dimethylaminopyridine. In yet another embodiment a vapor phase dehydrogenation of a 2.5 1 mixture of para meta product resulting from an uncatalyzed cycloaddition is performed using Pd 0 on C.

In other embodiments Pd II trifluoroacetic acid Pd TFA p toluenesulfonic acid mesitylene and 2 dimethylamino pyridine are added to one or both of 4 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid and 3 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid to form a mixture. The mixture can be sparged with O g for about 10 minutes to about 20 minutes and then heated to from about 80 C. to about 100 C. for about 36 hours to about 54 hours. The mixture can then be filtered to form a filtrate and the filtrate can be concentrated to toluic acid residue.

With reference to the oxidation reaction is performed to oxidize p and m toluic acid to form terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid. In various embodiments a Amoco Mid Century oxidation is conducted. Commercially such oxidation methods are used to convert p xylene into terephthalic acid. In the present methods a Co OAc Mn OAc catalyst in acetic acid solvent using air as the oxidant and an alkyl halide as a radical chain carrier may be used under high pressure reaction conditions.

In the oxidation reaction N hydroxyimides can be used in the presence of metallic salts to avoid elevated temperatures. Preferred N hydroxyimides include N hydroxyphthalimide NHPI N hydroxysuccinimide NHSI N hydroxymaleimide NHMI N hydroxy 1 8 naphthalimide NHNI and carbonic acid tert butyl phthalimido ester CATPE . Non limiting examples of metallic salts include Co II acetate tetrahydrate and Mn OAc .

For example N hydroxysuccinimide can be used to enable the oxidation of p toluic acid 5 catalyzed by Co OAc Mn OAc in acetic acid solvent to proceed under 1 atm Oat 100 C. and affords terephthalic acid 94 and 4 formylbenzoic acid 1 with 1 unreacted p toluic acid. Oxidation of m toluic acid leads to isophthalic acid 8 in 88 yield. p Toluic acid and m toluic acid are significantly more reactive than p xylene under identical reaction conditions. p Xylene oxidation leads to terephthalic acid 69 4 formylbenozoic acid 3 and p toluic acid 5 5 .

In various embodiments toluic acid an N hydroxyimide at least one metallic salt and glacial acetic acid are mixed together in a reactor to form a mixture. The mixture is purged under N g or O g with stirring and heat is applied to from about 80 C. to about 100 C. Pure Ois added to the reactor and the mixture is incubated for from about 12 to about 36 hours. Upon completion of the reaction solid terephthalic acid and or isophthalic acid products and mother liquor are separated by filtration.

As described above the route from bio isoprene to bio terephthalic acid exploits a cycloaddition reaction which is one of the most versatile routes leading to substituted aromatics. Therefore reaction of the diene isoprene with dienophiles other than acrylic acid provides a route to substituted terephthalates. For example in various embodiments biobased isoprene is reacted with biobased cinnamic acid to lead to biobased phenylterephthalic acid which is a substituted terephthalate additive that imparts unique properties to liquid crystalline polymers. In another embodiment biobased isoprene is reacted with biobased fumaric or maleic acids to lead to trimellitic acid which in its esterified form is used as a high performance plasticizer in wire and cable insulation. Similarly reaction of isoprene with dienophiles other than acrylic acid leads to substituted isophthalates.

By starting with one or both of bio isoprene and bio acrylic acid PET can be synthesized in whole or in part from renewable feedstocks. In some embodiments PET may be made using bio terephthalic acid with petroleum based isophthalic acid. Alternatively PET may be made using petroleum based terephthalic acid with bio isophthalic acid.

Where the acrylic acid is bio acrylic acid and the isoprene is bio isoprene the scheme results in the synthesis of bio terephthalic acid bio isophthalic acid or mixtures thereof. Bio isophthalic acid and bio terephthalic acid can react with ethylene glycol to generate bio PET which can be used in the manufacture of plastic for use in for example plastic packaging or fibers. Where the ethylene glycol is bio ethylene glycol PET can be generated with 100 of its carbon content derived from renewable feedstocks.

In various embodiments one or both of the isoprene and acrylic acid are bio based so as to produce bio terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid and thereby produce bio PET. Preferably the terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid are produced at a terephthalic acid isophthalic acid ratio of from about 90 10 to about 99 1 such as a ratio of about 97 3 or about 95 5. In some embodiments the PET made by the process comprises cis trans cyclohexane carboxylic acid.

Alternative routes to producing biobased terephthalic acid are depicted in . For example depicts a synthesis that does not employ a p xylene intermediate. As shown in isobutanol microbially synthesized from glucose is dehydrated to isobutene or oxidized to isobutanal. Dimerization of isobutene leads to 2 4 4 trimethylpentenes which undergo catalyzed dehydrocyclization to pxylene at 550 C. Alternatively isobutene can be dimerized reacted with isobutanol or reacted with isobutanal. The resulting 2 5 dimethyhexenes or 2 5 dimethylhexadienes undergo dehydrocyclization to p xylene at 450 C. p Xylene can also be obtained from 2 5 dimethylfuran. Cycloaddition with ethene and dehydration of the resulting bicycle adduct affords p xylene. Cycloaddition of 2 5 dimethylfuran with acrolein followed by an oxidation dehydration and decarboxylation leads to p xylene. 2 5 Dimethylfuran is obtained by hydrogenation of 5 hydroxymethylfurfural which is chemically derived from glucose or fructose. Catalytic reforming of polyols such as glucose derived sorbitol over Pt Re followed by Ru on C hydrogenation and final transformation over H ZSM 5 affords a mixture of aromatics including p xylene.

In comparison to the routes summarized in the cycloaddition reaction sequence affords the highest overall yield of terephthalic acid from biobased starting material. Esterification and subsequent hydrolysis to obtain biobased terephthalic acid is avoided. Temperatures in excess of 250 C. and the use of high pressure reaction vessels are avoided. Purifications of cycloaddition and aromatization intermediates are simple and avoid multistep procedures. Two of the three steps require no solvents. Final oxidation of p toluic acid employs the same solvent and catalysts used in commercial oxidation of p xylene. The cycloaddition reaction sequence and biobased isobutanol are the only routes that enable synthesis of biobased isophthalic acid.

The compositions and processes of the present technology are illustrated in the following non limiting examples.

Isoprene 36.4 g 535 mmol was added to acrylic acid 35.3 g 489 mmol to form a reaction mixture and pressurized to 120 psi under Nin a Parr Series 4575 high pressure reactor interfaced with a Series 4842 temperature controller. The reaction mixture was heated to 95 C. and stirred 100 rpm for 2 hours at 150 psi after which the reaction mixture was allowed to cool.

The reaction afforded a yellow heterogeneous mixture containing a 2.5 1 mol mol mixture of 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid and 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid H NMR CDCl 5.359 s 1H 2.510 m 1H 2.210 m 2H 2.000 m 3H 1.709 m 1H 1.633 s 3H for 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 5.377 s 1H 2.592 m 1H 2.210 m 2H 2.000 m 3H 1.654 s 3H 1.598 m 1H for 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid. Crude product was submitted to repeat crystallizations from hexanes to obtain pure 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid. The first crystallization from hexane afforded 17.2 g of white crystalline. Filtrate was concentrated and crystallized at 0 C. from hexane to afford 6.5 g of a 2nd crop of white crystalline. Filtrate from the 2nd crop was concentrated and crystallized at 20 C. to afford 11.5 g of a 3rd crop of white crystalline. Filtrate from the 3rd crop was concentrated and crystallized at 20 C. to afford 3.2 g of a 4th crop of white crystalline. Filtrate from the 4th crop was concentrated and crystallized at 20 C. to afford 0.8 g of a 5th crop of white crystalline. A total of 39 g 56 yield of pure 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid was obtained from the five crystallizations.

A weighed quantity of cycloaddition reaction products 50.0 mg 0.357 mmol was added to a 10 mL volumetric flask. Decane internal standard 0.02 mL 0.1 mmol and N O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide BSTFA 1.5 mL 5.59 mmol were then added. Derivatization was complete upon mixing. The solution was then diluted with toluene to 10 mL. Syringe filtration 0.45 m Whatman filter was followed by analysis to determine the ratio of para and meta cycloaddition products.

Derivatized samples were analyzed using an Agilent HP 5 5 Phenyl methylpolysiloxane coated capillary column 30 m 0.320 mm i.d. 0.25 L film thickness to determine the ratio of 4 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid para product and 3 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid meta product . A second sample was prepared for GC without BSTFA derivatization and analyzed using an Agilent DB FFAP nitroterephthalic acid modified polyethylene glycol coated capillary column 30 m 0.320 mm i.d. 0.25 L film thickness which allowed for determination of cycloaddition products para product and meta product along with unreacted acrylic acid.

A 350 mL glass pressure vessel 10.3 bar max equipped with a magnetic stir bar was charged with TiCl 3.04 g 16.0 mmol at room temperature under Ar in a glove bag. The flask was sealed with a rubber septum in the glove bag and acrylic acid 57.7 g 800 mmol was added to the sealed pressure vessel via syringe. After mixing TiClwith acrylic acid the Ar atmosphere was not required. The resulting red brown solution was cooled in an ice bath followed by addition of isoprene 54.5 g 800 mmol . The rubber septum was replaced by a pressure vessel screw cap 15 mm PTFE bushing with Viton O ring . After removing the ice bath 2 h following the addition of isoprene 2 the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to rt. Solid began to precipitate from solution after 8 h and the reaction was complete after 24 h at rt. A heterogeneous reaction crude containing substantial solid precipitate was transferred to a round bottom flask equipped with a side arm and a magnetic stir bar. After addition of heptane 600 mL and isopropanol 80 mL the dissolved reaction crude was heated to 80 C. with stirring for 1 h. This homogeneous solution was extracted with 10 dilute aqueous HSO 1 160 mL followed by water 2 160 mL . An organic layer was dried over MgSOand concentrated to afford 105 g 94 of a white solid containing 4 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid and 3 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid as a 23 1 mixture. This solid was dissolved in a minimal amount of hot hexanes crystallized at room temperature filtered and dried to afford 90.3 g 81 of purified para product as needle like crystals. H NMR CDCl3 for 4 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid 1.63 s 3H 1.70 m 1H 1.92 2.26 m 3H 2.16 2.28 m 2H 2.50 m 1H 5.40 s 1H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl3 23.5 25.2 27.4 29.1 39.0 119.0 138.8 182.5.

Acrylic acid 71.4 g 0.991 mol was added to isoprene 77.5 g 1.14 mol 2 under Nin a Parr Series 4575 high pressure reactor interfaced with a Series 4842 temperature controller. The reactor was flushed with Nand then pressurized to 8.3 bar with N. Heating the reactor at 95 C. with stirring 100 rpm for 2 h led to an initial increase in pressure to 13.8 bar followed by a decline in pressure to 9.7 bar. After allowing the reactor to cool a yellow heterogeneous reaction crude was obtained containing a 79 yield of a 3.2 1 ratio of para meta 83.2 g of 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid and 26.9 g of 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid . H NMR CDCl for 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 1.63 s 3H 1.72 m 1H 1.95 2.02 m 3H 2.23 2.24 m 2H 2.49 m 1H 5.35 5.37 m 1H . Crude product was submitted to repeat crystallizations from hexanes to obtain 37.5 g 27 yield pure 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid. H NMR CDCl 1.63 s 3H 1.69 m 1H 1.96 2.04 m 3H 2.20 2.27 m 2H 2.52 m 1H 5.36 m 1H .

Various Lewis acids were screened to determine their ability to catalyze cycloaddition reactions under neat conditions. The Lewis acids tested were CuCl CuCl NiCl YCl FeCl AlCl FeCl ZnCl MgCl TiCl SnCl ScCl SnCl HfCl ZrCl and TiCl. Screening of Lewis acids as catalysts for the cycloaddition of acrylic acid and isoprene employed a 15 mL glass pressure vessel 10.3 bar max equipped with a magnetic stir bar that was charged with 0.5 mmol of Lewis acid under Nin a glove bag and sealed with a rubber septum. Solvent 4 mL was then added to create a suspension if necessary. Acrylic acid 0.36 g 5 mmol was added via syringe. A color change was often observed sometimes immediately sometimes delayed after addition of acrylic acid to the Lewis acid. When added triethylamine diisopropylethylamine or 2 6 lutidine 0.5 mmol were introduced following the addition of acrylic acid. Isoprene 0.41 g 6 mmol was finally added via syringe and the rubber septum replaced by a pressure vessel screw cap 15 mm PTFE bushing with Viton O ring . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 24 h and the resulting crude analyzed by NMR and GC. In two additional reactions TiCl4 was used as the Lewis acid catalyst and the reaction proceeded for either 48 hours at 0 C. or 100 hours at 20 C. A summary of the results is presented in Table 1.

Entry 1 of Table 1 is an uncatalyzed control reaction. As shown in the table the uncatalyzed reaction of neat acrylic acid and neat isoprene 1 1 mol mol afforded a 27 yield with 3 1 para meta selectivity. In entries 2 17 a Lewis acid catalyst was used with chloride as a counteranion. Significant improvements in yield and selectivity were observed for the Sc Sn Hf and Zr catalysts entries 13 16 . However Ti was superior to the other catalysts under the same conditions entry 17 . As shown by entries 18 and 19 lowering the temperature improved the selectivity of TiCl catalyzed cycloadditions of acrylic acid with isoprene.

Most terephthalic acid goes into the manufacture of poly ethylene terephthalate PET which is used in clear packaging and polyester fiber. PET also contains small amounts 3 of isophthalic acid which is used to interfere with PET crystallization thereby enhancing the transparency and lowering the melting point of PET. The cycloaddition reaction sequence could thus enable manufacture of 100 biobased PET by virtue of providing access to both biobased terephthalic acid and biobased isophthalic acid. Pure terephthalic acid derived from TiCl4 catalyzed cycloaddition could conceivably be combined with the mixture of terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid derived from the uncatalyzed cycloaddition to obtain the ratio of para meta products required in PET manufacture.

Concentrated sulfuric acid 4.21 mL 79.0 mmol was added dropwise to a solid 1.05 g 7.49 mmol composed of 97 mol mol 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid and 3 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid to form a mixture. The mixture was heated to 100 C. Vigorous gas formation was first observed when the reaction mixture temperature reached 60 C. Heating of the reaction mixture at 100 C. was continued until gas formation ceased. The reaction mixture was heated for a total of 12.25 minutes from the time when gas evolution was first observed at 60 C. The reaction mixture was poured into ice 20 g immediately after gas formation ceased and 0.89 g of a tan solid precipitated from solution.

A first crop of solid was collected with vacuum filtration and determined to be 98 pure p toluic acid by HPLC response factor based on a calibration curve using authentic p toluic acid . The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc 3 and combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated to afford 0.072 g of a brown second crop determined to be 54 pure by HPLC. Based on the two crops of p toluic acid obtained and the purity of each individual crop a combined 91 yield of p toluic acid was obtained. The first crop was dissolved in EtOAc and filtered through a plug of silica gel followed by further washing of the silica gel with EtOAc. The EtOAc filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue recrystallized in p xylene at rt to afford 0.75 mg of p toluic acid in 73 yield. Recrystallized p toluic acid was 99 pure based on HPLC analysis. H NMR CDCl 7.99 d 2H 7.26 d 2H 2.42 s 3H .

5 Pd on C 0.35 g 0.17 mmol and 5.8 mL of p xylene bp 138 C. were added to a 1.00 g 7.13 mmol 56 44 mixture of 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 4 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid to form a suspension. The suspension was refluxed for 6.5 hours under air and then filtered through Celite . Concentration of the filtrate afforded 0.93 g of a residue. Based on the composition of the residue as determined by HPLC a 35 yield of m toluic acid and a 34 yield p toluic acid was obtained. Saturated cis and trans 4 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acids were also formed based on H NMR comparison with authentic samples. The ratio of p toluic acid trans 4 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acid cis 4 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acid was 1.6 1.4 1 mol mol mol. H NMR resonances associated with cis and trans 3 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acids were also observed although authentic samples of these byproducts were not available.

Pd II trifluoroacetic acid 38.4 mg 0.116 mmol p toluenesulfonic acid 83.6 mg 0.439 mmol mesitylene 0.61 mL and 2 dimethylamino pyridine 24.7 mg 0.202 mmol were added to a 0.285 g 2.04 mmol 56 44 mixture of 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 4 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid to form a mixture. The mixture was sparged with oxygen for 15 minutes and then heated to 100 C. for 48 hours under oxygen. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to a residue 0.259 g . Based on the composition of the residue as determined by H NMR an 18 yield of m toluic acid and a 34 yield p toluic acid was obtained. No resonances associated with trans 4 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acid cis 4 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acid trans 3 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acid or cis 3 methylcyclohexyl 1 carboxylic acids were observed.

Concentrated HSO 80.0 mL 1.50 mol previously chilled in an ice bath was added dropwise to 20.1 g 143 mmol of 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid para product from a TiCl catalyzed cycloaddition in a 250 mL round bottom flask chilled in an ice bath and fitted with a reflux condenser open to the atmosphere. The solution was heated to 100 C. Vigorous gas formation was first observed when the reaction mixture temperature reached 60 C. Heating of the reaction mixture at 100 C. was continued until gas formation ceased. The reaction mixture was heated for a total of 50 min from the time gas evolution was first observed at 60 C. The reaction mixture was poured into ice 400 g immediately after gas formation ceased and 17.7 g of a tan colored solid precipitated from solution. This solid was collected by filtration to afford 15.4 g 79 of p toluic acid. Kugelrohr distillation 50 mL bulbs 14 20 joint size of this solid through a plug 9 cm 1.7 cm of chromatographic grade silica gel 60 pore size 40 63 m mesh under vacuum afforded 15.2 g 78 of p toluic acid as a white solid.

Davisil Grade 643 silica gel 150 pore size 35 70 m mesh 1.77 g was dried in a vacuum oven 150 C. 11 mm overnight. 5 Pd on C 0.37 g 0.085 mmol containing approximately 50 wt water was dried for 3 h under reduced pressure at 70 C. The dried silica gel and dried 5 Pd on C were thoroughly mixed and then packed into a 9 cm 1.7 cm glass tube using glass wool to immobilize the plug reactor material. 4 Methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 10.1 g 72.0 mmol para product from a TiCl4 catalyzed cycloaddition was placed in a 50 mL 14 20 round bottom flask. Vaporization dehydrogenation of 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic employed a Kugelrohr apparatus assembled as follows the 50 mL flask containing para product the 9 cm 1.7 cm glass tube containing the plug reactor three 50 mL collection bulbs in series a U shaped tube and finally a straight gas adaptor connected to a water recirculating aspirator pump. The flask containing the para product and plug reactor was inserted into the Kugelrohr oven. The second 50 mL collection bulb and U shaped tube were cooled to 78 C. Vaporization dehydrogenation proceeded at 240 C. under vacuum 80 mm with reciprocal oscillating agitation. A white solid accumulated in the collection bulbs and the U shaped tube and was collected with EtOH washes. The plug reactor contents were suspended in EtOH followed by filtration to remove the Pd on C and silica gel. All of the EtOH washes were combined concentrated and dried to afford 7.51 g 77 of p toluic acid 1.24 g 12 of trans 4 methylcyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid and 0.93 g 9 of cis 4 methylcyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid.

In a glass test tube 15 cm 2 cm Pd II trifluoroacetic acid 0.0327 g 0.0984 mmol p toluenesulfonic acid 0.0760 g 0.400 mmol 2 dimethylamino pyridine 0.0245 g 0.201 mmol 0.276 g 1.97 mmol of 4 methylcyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid para product from a TiCl catalyzed cycloaddition and mesitylene 0.90 mL were added with a magnetic stir bar. The mixture was sparged with oxygen for 15 min and then heated to 100 C. for 24 h under O balloon . The reaction mixture was quenched with HOH 10 mL and the resulting aqueous suspension was extracted with EtOAc. Drying and concentration afforded 0.0435 g 16 of p toluic acid.

HSOOxidation of a Mixture of 4 Methylcyclohex 3 Ene 1 Carboxylic Acid and 3 Methylcyclohex 3 Ene 1 Carboxylic Acid to p Toluic Acid and m Toluic Acid.

HSO 3.99 mL 74.9 mmol previously chilled in an ice bath was added dropwise to an uncatalyzed cycloaddition product mixture consisting of 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 0.446 g 3.18 mmol and 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 0.562 g 4.01 mmol in a 15 mL round bottom flask chilled in an ice bath and fitted with a reflux condenser open to the atmosphere to generate a reaction mixture. The mixture was heated to 100 C. Vigorous gas formation was first observed when the reaction mixture temperature reached 60 C. Heating of the reaction mixture at 100 C. was continued until gas formation ceased. The reaction mixture was heated for a total of 13 min from the time gas evolution was first observed at 60 C. The reaction mixture was poured into ice 20 g immediately after gas formation ceased and 0.630 g of a tan colored solid precipitated from solution. This solid was collected by filtration to afford 0.286 g 66 of p toluic acid and 0.0477 g 9 of m toluic acid.

Dehydrogenation of a Mixture of 4 Methylcyclohex 3 Ene 1 Carboxylic Acid and 3 Methylcyclohex 3 Ene 1 Carboxylic Acid to p Toluic Acid and m Toluic Acid.

Davisil Grade 643 silica gel 150 pore size 35 70 m mesh 1.80 g was dried in a vacuum oven 150 C. 11 mm overnight. 5 Pd on C 0.37 g 0.085 mmol containing approximately 50 wt water was dried for 3 h under reduced pressure at 70 C. The dried silica gel and dried 5 Pd on C were thoroughly mixed and then packed into a 9 cm 1.7 cm glass tube using glass wool to immobilize the plug reactor material. A mixture of 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 8.00 g 57.1 mmol and 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 2.61 g 18.6 mmol para and meta products respectively resulting from an uncatalyzed cycloaddition was placed in a 50 mL 14 20 round bottom flask. Vaporization dehydrogenation of the mixture of 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid and 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid employed a Kugelrohr apparatus assembled as follows the 50 mL flask containing 3 the 9 cm 1.7 cm glass tube containing the plug reactor three 50 mL collection bulbs in series a U shaped tube and finally a straight gas adaptor connected to a water recirculating aspirator pump. The flask containing para product and plug reactor were inserted into the Kugelrohr oven. The second 50 mL collection bulb and U shaped tube were cooled to 78 C. Vaporization dehydrogenation proceeded at 240 C. under vacuum 80 mm with reciprocal oscillating agitation. A white solid accumulated in the collection bulbs and the U shaped tube which was collected with EtOH washes. The plug reactor contents were suspended in EtOH followed by filtration to remove the Pd on C and silica gel. All of the EtOH washes were combined concentrated and dried to afford 4.08 g 53 of p toluic acid 0.17 g 2 of trans 4 methylcyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid 0.05 g 1 of cis 4 methylcyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid 2.23 g 28 of unreacted 4 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid 1.74 g 69 of m toluic acid 0.34 g 13 of cis 3 methylcyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid 0.27 g 10 of trans 3 methylcyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid and 0.44 g 17 of unreacted 3 methylcyclohex 3 ene 1 carboxylic acid.

Acetic acid 25 mL was added to a mixture of manganese II acetate 8.7 mg 50 mol cobalt II acetate tetrahydrate 14 mg 56 mol N hydroxysuccinimide 120 mg 1.04 mmol and p toluic acid 5 1.318 g 9.681 mmol to form a mixture. The mixture was stirred under Oat 100 C. for 24 hours. The mixture was then cooled filtered and dried under vacuum to afford an off white solid 1.50 g . The off white solid was determined by HPLC to contain terephthalic acid 1.46 g as well as trace amounts of 4 formylbenzoic acid and unreacted p toluic acid. The yield of terephthalic acid 6 was 91 . 1H NMR DMSO 13.270 br 2H 8.037 s 4H .

To a one neck 50 mL round bottom flask was added 1.088 g of p toluic acid containing 7.5 mol of cyclohexanecarboxylic acid followed by adding 9.96 mg of Co OAc .4HO 0.5 mol 6.9 mg of Mn OAc 0.5 mol and 92 mg of N hydroxysuccinimide 10 mol . After adding 15 mL of HOAc the flask was purged with Ofor one min. Then a balloon with Owas connected to the flask. The reaction was stirred at 100 C. for 22 h. After cooling to room temperature the solid was vacuum filtrated and washed with HOAc. Finally 1186 mg of a white solid was obtained. Terephthalic acid and 4 formylbenzoic acid were obtained in 94 and 1 yields respectively. Of the starting p toluic acid 2 remained unreacted. Terephthalic acid H NMR DMSO 8.04 s 4H 13.3 br s 2H . C NMR 125 MHz DMSO 129.9 134.9 167.1

Using the above for p toluic acid oxidation procedure for p xylene oxidation terephthalic acid 4 formylbenzoic acid and p toluic acid were obtained in 69 3 and 5 yield respectively.

The reaction was performed at 1.088 g 8 mmol scale of pure m toluic acid. Using the above procedure for p toluic acid oxidation 1164 mg of isophthalic acid was obtained as a white solid in 88 yield. H NMR DMSO 7.62 dd J 7.8 Hz 7.8 Hz 1H 8.12 dd J 2.0 Hz 7.8 Hz 2H 8.46 dd J 1.5 Hz 1.5 Hz 1H 13.3 br s 2H . C NMR 125 MHz DMSO 129.6 130.4 131.6 133.8 167.0.

To a solution of acrylic acid 1.035 mL 15 mmol was added 35 L of TiCl 2 mol under Nat room temperature. Then the solution was cooled down to 0 C. and stirred for 5 minutes before adding 2 3 dimethylbutylidene 3.4 mL 30 mmol . After completion of the reaction crude was extracted with 50 mL of 20 HSOand 60 mL of hexanes twice. After removing solvents under vacuum the crude residue was purified by flash chromatography using gradient diethyl ether hexanes 1 6 1 5 as mobile phase to give 1.884 g 12.2 mmol of a white solid in 82 yield. The results are summarized in Table 2.

The reaction was performed at 4 mmol scale of acrylic acid and set up under 78 C. in a 15 mL pressured vessel. After the reaction was done at room temperature the crude was loaded on silica column directly without aqueous workup. Chromatographic purification EtOAc hexanes 1 5 gave 431 mg of a colorless oil in 86 yield. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl3 1.68 1.76 m 1H 2.02 2.18 m 3H 2.22 2.34 m 2H 2.57 2.65 m 1H 5.65 5.73 m 2H 12.27 bs 1H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl3 24.3 24.8 27.1 39.2 125.0 126.7 182.8.

The reaction was performed at 4 mmol scale of acrylic acid. After the reaction was done the crude was loaded on silica column directly without aqueous workup. Chromatographic purification EtOAc hexanes 1 5 to 1 4 gave 507 mg of a white solid in 84 yield. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl3 1.18 1.32 m 2H 1.43 1.50 m 1H 1.53 1.60 m 1H 1.60 1.68 m 1H 1.70 1.78 m 1H 2.58 m 1H 2.64 m 1H 2.95 m 1H 6.15 dd J 6.4 Hz 6.4 Hz 1H . 6.30 dd J 7.4 Hz 7.4 Hz 1H 12.1 br s 1H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl3 24.4 25.4 29.3 29.6 32.4 42.7 131.3 135.2 182.3.

The reaction was performed at 4 mmol scale of acrylic acid. Chromatographic purification Et2O hexanes 1 5 to 2 3 gave 535 mg yellow oil which was dissolved in 50 mL of 1M NaOH and washed with 50 mL dichloromethane twice. The aqueous was then acidified with HCl to pH 1 and extracted with 50 mL of dichloromethane twice giving 448 mg of a colorless oil in 82 yield. Endo product 1H NMR 500 MHz CDCl3 1.29 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 1.36 1.48 m 2H 1.93 m 1H 2.94 s 1H 2.98 dt J 3.9 Hz 9.3 Hz 1H 3.24 s 1H 6.00 dd J 3.0 Hz 5.4 Hz 1H 6.21 dd J 3.0 Hz 5.8 Hz 1H 11.8 br s 1H . 13C NMR 125 MHz CDCl3 29.1 42.5 43.3 45.7 49.7 132.5 137.9 181.6.

The reaction was performed at 2 mmol scale of 3 acetylacrylic acid. The procedure was the same as before except that isoprene and acrylic acid were mixed together before adding TiCl. After the reaction was done the crude was loaded on silica column directly without aqueous workup. Chromatographic purification EtOAc hexanes 1 3 to 100 0 gave 300 mg of a white solid in 82 yield. Meta product H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.65 s 3H 1.90 m 1H 2.09 m 1H 2.20 s 3H 2.26 2.44 m 2H 2.82 2.88 m 2H 5.40 s 1H 11.8 br s 1H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 22.9 27.7 28.8 32.6 41.2 47.5 118.8 132.6 181.5 211.3.

The reaction was performed at 2 mmol scale of 3 4 methylbenzoyl acrylic acid. The procedure was the same as before except that isoprene and acrylic acid were mixed together before adding TiCl4. After the reaction was done the crude was loaded on silica column directly without aqueous workup. Chromatographic purification EtOAc hexanes 1 3 to 1 2 gave 446 mg of a white foam like solid in 86 yield. Meta product H NMR 500 MHz CDCl3 1.70 s 3H 1.95 m 1H 2.20 m 1H 2.39 s 1H 3.11 dt J 5.8 Hz 11.3 Hz 1H 3.70 dt J 5.4 Hz 11.4 Hz 1H 7.22 d J 7.8 Hz 2H . 7.85 d J 7.3 Hz 2H 12.0 br s 1H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl3 21.6 23.1 29.5 32.9 41.7 43.3 119.3 128.7 129.4 132.6 133.5 140.0 181.9 202.5.

As shown in Table 2 reaction of acrylic acid with 2 3 dimethylbutene 1 3 cyclohexadiene cyclpentadiene and 1 3 butadiene all gave yields using TiClwell in excess of the control reactions lacking catalysts entries 1 4 . Similar improvements over control yields were realized in the TiCl catalyzed reactions of isoprene with acylacrylic acids entries 4 and 5 . Cycloadditions of dienophile carboxylic acids catalyzed by TiClrequire neat reaction conditions. A quantity of liquid diene is required to dissolve entries 1 4 or at least partially solubilize the dienophile carboxylic acids entries 5 and 6 .

The headings such as Introduction and Summary and sub headings used herein are intended only for general organization of topics within the present technology and are not intended to limit the disclosure of the present technology or any aspect thereof. In particular subject matter disclosed in the Introduction may include novel technology and may not constitute a recitation of prior art. Subject matter disclosed in the Summary is not an exhaustive or complete disclosure of the entire scope of the technology or any embodiments thereof. Classification or discussion of a material within a section of this specification as having a particular utility is made for convenience and no inference should be drawn that the material must necessarily or solely function in accordance with its classification herein when it is used in any given composition.

The description and specific examples while indicating embodiments of the technology are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the technology. Moreover recitation of multiple embodiments having stated features is not intended to exclude other embodiments having additional features or other embodiments incorporating different combinations of the stated features. Specific examples are provided for illustrative purposes of how to make and use the compositions and methods of this technology and unless explicitly stated otherwise are not intended to be a representation that given embodiments of this technology have or have not been made or tested.

As used herein the words preferred and preferably refer to embodiments of the technology that afford certain benefits under certain circumstances. However other embodiments may also be preferred under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not useful and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the technology.

As referred to herein all compositional percentages are by weight of the total composition unless otherwise specified. As used herein the word include and its variants is intended to be non limiting such that recitation of items in a list is not to the exclusion of other like items that may also be useful in the materials compositions devices and methods of this technology. Similarly the terms can and may and their variants are intended to be non limiting such that recitation that an embodiment can or may comprise certain elements or features does not exclude other embodiments of the present technology that do not contain those elements or features.

Disclosure of values and ranges of values for specific parameters such as temperatures molecular weights weight percentages etc. are not exclusive of other values and ranges of values useful herein. It is envisioned that two or more specific exemplified values for a given parameter may define endpoints for a range of values that may be claimed for the parameter. For example if Parameter X is exemplified herein to have value A and also exemplified to have value Z it is envisioned that parameter X may have a range of values from about A to about Z. Similarly it is envisioned that disclosure of two or more ranges of values for a parameter whether such ranges are nested overlapping or distinct subsume all possible combination of ranges for the value that might be claimed using endpoints of the disclosed ranges. For example if parameter X is exemplified herein to have values in the range of 1 10 or 2 9 or 3 8 it is also envisioned that Parameter X may have other ranges of values including 1 9 1 8 1 3 1 2 2 10 2 8 2 3 3 10 and 3 9.

Although the open ended term comprising as a synonym of non restrictive terms such as including containing or having is used herein to describe and claim embodiments of the present technology embodiments may alternatively be described using more limiting terms such as consisting of or consisting essentially of. Thus for any given embodiment reciting ingredients components or process steps Applicants specifically envision embodiments consisting of or consisting essentially of such ingredients components or processes excluding additional ingredients components or processes for consisting of and excluding additional ingredients components or processes affecting the novel properties of the embodiment for consisting essentially of even though such additional ingredients components or processes are not explicitly recited in this application. For example recitation of a composition or process reciting elements A B and C specifically envisions embodiments consisting of and consisting essentially of A B and C excluding an element D that may be recited in the art even though element D is not explicitly described as being excluded herein

