---

title: Systems and methods for time-lapse selection subsequent to capturing media content
abstract: Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can capture media content including an original set of frames. A selection of a time-lapse amount can be received. A subset of frames from the original set of frames can be identified based on the time-lapse amount. An orientation-based image stabilization process can be applied to the subset of frames to produce a stabilized subset of frames. A stabilized time-lapse media content item can be provided based on the stabilized subset of frames.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392174&OS=09392174&RS=09392174
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09392174
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141211
---
The present technology relates to the field of media content. More particularly the present technology relates to techniques for time lapse selection subsequent to capturing media content.

Today people often utilize computing devices or systems for a wide variety of purposes. Users can use their computing devices to for example interact with one another create content share information and access information. In some instances a user of a computing device can utilize a camera or other image sensor of the computing device to capture or record media content such as images and or videos. In one example the user can utilize the camera to capture or record a time lapse video.

Conventional approaches to capturing media content generally involve the user first configuring the camera or other sensor and then using the configured camera to capture the media content. Conventional approaches to capturing time lapse media content can require the user to first set a time lapse rate and then capture the time lapse media content at the already set time lapse rate. However this can be uninteresting and lacking in interactivity. Moreover under conventional approaches if the user wishes to capture another time lapse media content using a different time lapse rate then the user must set the time lapse rate to the different rate prior to capturing the other time lapse media. As such conventional approaches can be inconvenient inefficient and uninteresting and can create challenges for or reduce the overall user experience associated with utilizing computing devices or systems to capture media content.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can include systems methods and non transitory computer readable media configured to capture media content including an original set of frames. A selection of a time lapse amount can be received. A subset of frames from the original set of frames can be identified based on the time lapse amount. An orientation based image stabilization process can be applied to the subset of frames to produce a stabilized subset of frames. A stabilized time lapse media content item can be provided based on the stabilized subset of frames.

In an embodiment a second selection of a second time lapse amount can be received. A second subset of frames from the original set of frames can be identified based on the second time lapse amount. The orientation based image stabilization process can be applied to the second subset of frames to produce a stabilized second subset of frames. A second stabilized time lapse media content item can be provided based on the stabilized second subset of frames.

In an embodiment orientation data indicative of one or more orientations of a camera configured to capture the media content including the original set of frames can be acquired. In some cases the camera can undergo movement that causes the one or more orientations of the camera to change over time. The orientation based image stabilization process can utilize at least a portion of the orientation data. The stabilized time lapse media content item can correspond to a stabilized hyperlapse media content item. Time data for each frame in the subset of frames can be acquired. At least the portion of the orientation data can be associated with the time data for each frame in the subset of frames.

In an embodiment the orientation based image stabilization process can include applying adaptive zoom with respect to the subset of frames to produce the stabilized subset of frames. The adaptive zoom can be dependent upon at least the portion of the orientation data.

In an embodiment the selection of the time lapse amount can be received subsequent to the capturing of the media content including the original set of frames. The applying of the orientation based image stabilization process can be performed subsequent to the capturing of the media content including the original set of frames.

In an embodiment the time lapse amount can correspond to a constant time lapse rate. Each frame in the subset of frames can be identified based on the constant time lapse rate.

In an embodiment the subset of frames can exclude based on the time lapse amount at least some frames from the original set of frames.

In an embodiment an original audio track included with the media content can be removed when the time lapse amount corresponds to a time lapse rate greater than one.

In an embodiment a touch gesture can be detected for a particular duration of time. At least a portion of the media content including the original set of frames can be provided within the particular duration of time.

In an embodiment the stabilized time lapse media content item can be shared via at least one social networking system.

It should be appreciated that many other features applications embodiments and or variations of the disclosed technology will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description. Additional and or alternative implementations of the structures systems non transitory computer readable media and methods described herein can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology.

The figures depict various embodiments of the disclosed technology for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology described herein.

People use computing devices or systems for a wide variety of purposes. Computing devices can provide different kinds of functionality. Users can utilize their computing devices to produce information access information and share information. In some cases computing devices can be utilized to capture or record media content such as time lapse media content.

Time lapse media content can include but is not limited to time lapse photographs or images time lapse videos motion time lapse media content etc. Time lapse media content can for example refer to media content that has been captured or recorded at a frame rate frames per second that is not greater than a frame rate at which the media content is played back or presented. In one example under conventional approaches a user of a computing device that corresponds to or includes a camera can configure the camera to capture time lapse media content such as by selecting a time lapse amount for the camera. As a result the time lapse media content can be captured at the selected time lapse amount such as a recording rate that is selected to be ten times as much as a normal or default recording rate. Accordingly in this example every tenth still frame can be captured or recorded by the camera and these still frames can be used to generate the time lapse media content.

However under conventional approaches the user cannot view the captured time lapse media content at a different time lapse amount such as at every fourth frame. Also under conventional approaches if the user desires to create another time lapse media content with a new time lapse amount then the user has to reconfigure the camera e.g. select the new time lapse amount and capture a new time lapse media content with the reconfigured camera. Moreover conventional approaches associated with time lapse media content can be lacking in user interactivity. Furthermore conventional image stabilization approaches can sometimes be unnecessarily computationally intensive. As such these and other similar conventional approaches can be uninteresting inefficient and inconvenient.

Therefore an improved approach can be beneficial for addressing or alleviating various concerns associated with conventional approaches. The disclosed technology enables time lapse selection to be performed subsequent to capturing media content. Various embodiments of the present disclosure can capture media content including an original set of frames. A selection of a time lapse amount can be received. A subset of frames from the original set of frames can be identified based on the time lapse amount. An orientation based image stabilization process can be applied to the subset of frames to produce a stabilized subset of frames. A stabilized time lapse media content item can be provided based on the stabilized subset of frames.

In some embodiments the time lapse media content module can be implemented in part or in whole as software hardware or any combination thereof. In general a module as discussed herein can be associated with software hardware or any combination thereof. In some implementations one or more functions tasks and or operations of modules can be carried out or performed by software routines software processes hardware and or any combination thereof. In some cases the time lapse media content module can be implemented in part or in whole as software running on one or more computing devices or systems such as on a user or client computing device. For example the time lapse media content module can be implemented as or within an application e.g. app a program or an applet etc. running on a user computing device or client computing system. In another example the time lapse media content module can be implemented using one or more computing devices or systems that include one or more servers such as network servers or cloud servers. In some instances the time lapse media content module can in part or in whole be implemented within or configured to operate in conjunction with a social networking system or service such as the social networking system of . It should be understood that many variations are possible.

The media content capture module can be configured to facilitate capturing media content including an original set of frames. In some embodiments the media content capture module can be configured to operate with a camera utilized by or otherwise associated with the time lapse media content module . The media content capture module can cause the camera to capture media content such as a video or a series of images e.g. still frames . The images or still frames can correspond to the original set of frames. In one example the media content including the original set of frames can be captured or recorded at 24 frames per second 30 frames per second 60 frames per second or another suitable rate.

The time lapse selection module can be configured to facilitate receiving a selection of a time lapse amount. In some embodiments the selection of the time lapse amount can be from a user of the time lapse media content module . In some implementations the selection of the time lapse amount can correspond to a default selection a predefined selection or a system selection. In some instances the time lapse amount can indicate how much time lapse is to be applied to the captured media content including the original set of frames. In one example if the selected time lapse amount corresponds to 2 i.e. 2 times 2 etc. then only every other frame in the original set of frames is relevant and the remaining frames are to be disregarded. As such in this example the second frame the fourth frame the sixth frame etc. will be included in a time lapse media content item generated based on the captured media content including the original frames and based on the 2 time lapse amount selection whereas the first frame the third frame the fifth frame etc. will be disregarded. Alternatively for example the first frame the third frame the fifth frame etc. can be included in the time lapse media content item while the second frame the fourth frame the sixth frame etc. are discarded.

In another example if the selected time lapse amount is 10 i.e. 10 times 10 etc. then only every 10th frame in the original set is relevant and the other frames are disregarded. Accordingly in this example only the tenth frame the twentieth frame the thirtieth frame etc. will be included in a time lapse media content item generated based on the captured media content and the 10 selection. Alternatively for example the first frame the eleventh frame the twenty first frame etc. can be included in the time lapse media content item while the other frames are disregarded. It should be understood that many variations are possible.

The frame subset module can be configured to facilitate identifying based on the time lapse amount a subset of frames from the original set of frames. For example as discussed above if the time lapse amount is selected to be 2 then the subset of frames can be identified to include the second frame the fourth frame the sixth frame and so forth or alternatively the first frame the third frame the fifth frame etc. . In another example as discussed previously if the time lapse amount is selected to be 10 then the subset of frames can be identified to include the tenth frame the twentieth frame the thirtieth frame and so forth or alternatively the first frame the eleventh frame the twenty first frame etc. . As such based on the time lapse amount the subset of frames can exclude at least some frames from the original set of frames. The frame subset module will be described in more detail below with reference to .

The stabilization module can be configured to facilitate applying an orientation based image stabilization process to the subset of frames to produce a stabilized subset of frames. For example the orientation based image stabilization process can utilize as input the subset of frames and orientation data associated with the subset to frames to produce or output the stabilized subset of frames. More details regarding the stabilization module will be provided below with reference to .

Moreover the stabilized time lapse content module can be configured to facilitate providing a stabilized time lapse media content item based on the stabilized subset of frames. In some implementations the stabilized time lapse content module can be configured to facilitate utilizing at least in part the stabilized subset of frames to generate the stabilized time lapse media content item. In some embodiments the stabilized time lapse content module can be configured to facilitate presenting or displaying the stabilized time lapse media content item generated based on the stabilized subset of frames. In one example the stabilized time lapse content module can generate and provide a preview of the stabilized time lapse media content item. It is appreciated there can be many variations applications and or other possibilities. For example in some cases the stabilized time lapse content module can facilitate sharing the stabilized time lapse media content item via at least one social networking system.

Furthermore in some embodiments a second selection of a second time lapse amount can be received. For example the time lapse selection module can receive the second selection of the second time lapse amount from a user of the time lapse media content module . The second time lapse amount can be different from the previous time lapse amount. Based on the second time lapse amount a second subset of frames can be identified from the original set of frames. In this example the frame subset module can identify based on the second time lapse amount the second subset of frames from the original set of frames. Since the second time lapse amount is different from the first time lapse amount at least some frames in the second subset can be different from at least some frames in the previous subset and different from at least some frames in the original set. Further the orientation based image stabilization process can be applied to the second subset of frames to produce a stabilized second subset of frames. The stabilization module can for example utilize orientation data associated with the second subset and apply the orientation based image stabilization process to the second subset of frames to produce the stabilized second subset of frames. A second stabilized time lapse media content item can be provided based on the stabilized second subset of frames. For example based on the stabilized second subset of frames the stabilized time lapse content module can generate and present a second stabilized time lapse media content item. It is contemplated that many variations are possible.

The time lapse amount module can be configured to acquire a time lapse amount on which the identifying of the subset of frames can be based. In some embodiments a selection of the time lapse amount can be received by the time lapse selection module of and the time lapse selection module can provide the time lapse amount received in the selection to the time lapse amount module .

The identification module can communicate and or operate in conjunction with the time lapse amount module to utilize the time lapse amount in identifying the subset of frames. In some cases if the time lapse amount is associated with a numeric value N then the identification module can identify every N th frame from the original set to be included in the subset. For example if the time lapse amount corresponds to 2 e.g. 2 2 times 2 etc. then the identification module can identify the second frame the fourth frame the sixth frame etc. from the original set while disregarding the others. As such in this example a 2 time lapse media content item can be generated based at least in part on the subset of frames including the second frame the fourth frame the sixth frame etc.

The frame acquisition module can be configured to acquire a set of frames to be stabilized and to acquire information associated with the frames . In some embodiments the frame acquisition module can acquire the subset of frames identified by the identification module of . The frame acquisition module can also acquire time information associated with the frames such as time data for each frame in the subset of frames. For example the frame acquisition module can acquire a respective timestamp for each frame in the subset.

The orientation data acquisition module can be configured to facilitate acquiring orientation data indicative of one or more orientations of a camera. The camera can correspond to the camera configured to capture the media content including the original set of frames as discussed above. In some cases the camera can undergo movement that causes the one or more orientations of the camera to change over time. For example when the camera is held by a user the camera can experience shaking from the user s hand. In another example the camera can experience one or more changes in orientation when the user walks runs jumps etc. while using the camera. In a further example when the camera is used on a transportation vessel e.g. bicycle automobile boat airplane etc. the camera can also undergo movement. The orientation data acquisition module can acquire orientation data associated with the camera which can indicate changes in the camera s orientation. In addition the orientation data can include timestamps such that the stabilization module can determine the camera s orientation at a particular time.

In some implementations the orientation based image stabilization process can utilize at least a portion of the orientation data. The portion of the orientation data utilized by the orientation based image stabilization process can be associated with the time data for each frame in the subset of frames. For example the orientation based image stabilization process can utilize the portion of the orientation data that has timestamps corresponding to the timestamps of the subset of frames.

Based on at least the portion of the orientation data and the subset of frames the orientation based image stabilization process can produce a stabilized time lapse media content item. In some embodiments the orientation based image stabilization process can utilize a set of image frames having associated time stamps. The set of image frames can be included for example in digital video data. In one example the set of image frames can correspond to the subset of frames identified from the original set of frames included in the captured media content. Applying the stabilization process to only the subset can be more efficient and can produce better stabilization results than attempting to stabilize the entire original set of frames included in the captured media content.

Moreover the orientation based image stabilization process can utilize a set of camera orientation data having associated time stamps. As discussed the orientation based image stabilization process can for example utilize at least the portion of the orientation data that is associated with the time data for each frame in the subset of frames. The orientation based image stabilization process can also generate a smoothed set of camera orientation data by minimizing a rate of rotation between successive image frames while minimizing empty regions below a threshold. Furthermore the orientation based image stabilization process can warp the set of image frames based on the smoothed set of camera orientation data. Accordingly the orientation based image stabilization process can produce the warped set of image frames from which the stabilized time lapse media content item is generated or developed. It should be appreciated that there can be many variations applications and or other possibilities.

In some cases the stabilized time lapse media content item can correspond to a stabilized hyperlapse media content item. For example when the media content including the original set of frames is captured while the camera is moved across a distance over a duration of time the stabilized time lapse media content item can be produced as a stabilized hyperlapse media content item.

Furthermore in some implementations the orientation based image stabilization process can include the adaptive zoom module to apply adaptive zoom with respect to the subset of frames to produce the stabilized subset of frames. The adaptive zoom can be dependent upon at least the portion of the orientation data. In some cases the adaptive zoom can include a technique for cropping or zooming frames such as the subset of frames identified from the original set of frames. The adaptive zoom can allow individual frames to be translated rotated or warped to counteract undesired deformations introduced by hand shake or other undesirable changes in orientation. The amount of cropping or zooming can determine how much leeway or wiggle room is available to remove or reduce these deformations. If for example a particular frame is translated too far empty regions e.g. regions which have no pixel data can be visible. The orientation based image stabilization process can smooth out undesirable camera motion by counteracting changes in camera orientation and can do so while preventing empty regions from showing up. The adaptive zoom can attempt to achieve an optimal or suitable zoom depending on the amount of changes in orientation.

For example if the camera had undergone significant orientation changes such as rotations e.g. clockwise and or counterclockwise relative to a lens of the camera while capturing the media content then the adaptive zoom can increase the zooming or cropping of the frames in the identified subset. If however the camera had undergone slight orientation changes e.g. rotations then the adaptive zoom can utilize a lesser zooming or cropping of the frames in the identified subset. There can be many variations and other possibilities.

At block the example method can capture media content including an original set of frames. At block the example method can receive a selection of a time lapse amount. At block the example method can identify based on the time lapse amount a subset of frames from the original set of frames. At block the example method can apply an orientation based image stabilization process to the subset of frames to produce a stabilized subset of frames. At block the example method can provide a stabilized time lapse media content item based on the stabilized subset of frames.

At block the example method can receive a second selection of a second time lapse amount. At block the example method can identify based on the second time lapse amount a second subset of frames from the original set of frames. At block the example method can apply the orientation based image stabilization process to the second subset of frames to produce a stabilized second subset of frames. At block the example method can provide a second stabilized time lapse media content item based on the stabilized second subset of frames. In some embodiments the method can repeat for a third selection of a third time lapse amount a fourth selection of a fourth time lapse amount and so on. Any suitable number of selections is possible.

In some embodiments an original audio track included with the media content can be removed when the time lapse amount corresponds to a time lapse rate greater than one. In some cases a new audio track can be added to the time lapse media content item. In one example the new audio track can correspond to a sped up version of the original audio track. The sped up version can for example have an audio playback rate corresponding to the time lapse rate.

In some embodiments a touch gesture can be detected for a particular duration of time. At least a portion of the media content including the original set of frames can be provided within the particular duration of time.

It is contemplated that there can be many other uses applications and or variations associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure. For example in some cases user can choose whether or not to opt in to utilize the disclosed technology. The disclosed technology can also ensure that various privacy settings and preferences are maintained. In another example various embodiments of the present disclosure can learn improve and or be refined over time.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices or systems that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a computing device or a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a laptop computer a wearable device e.g. a pair of glasses a watch a bracelet etc. a camera an appliance etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet . worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure. The social networking system may be administered managed or controlled by an operator. The operator of the social networking system may be a human being an automated application or a series of applications for managing content regulating policies and collecting usage metrics within the social networking system . Any type of operator may be used.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log and an authorization server . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

In some embodiments the user device can include a time lapse media content module . The time lapse media content module can for example be implemented as the time lapse media content module of . Other features of the time lapse media content module are discussed herein in connection with the time lapse media content module .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Moreover the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor . In various implementations a module or modules can be executed by a processor or multiple processors in one or multiple locations such as multiple servers in a parallel processing environment.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments some embodiments various embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

