---

title: Method and apparatus for performing an optimized location based search
abstract: An approach is provided for optimizing the generation of a location based search result. An optimization platform generates is also caused to initiate at least one second-location based search for at least one non-overlapping area of at least one first search area and at least one second search area to generate at least one set of new results. The optimization platform also designates at least one portion of the at least one first set of results as at least one set of old results. The optimization platform then returns at least one set of new results and the at least one set of old results as at least one second set of results for the at least one second location-based search.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565292&OS=09565292&RS=09565292
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09565292
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20140528
---
Service providers vehicle and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling new products and services. One area of interest has been the development of location based services to provide users of vehicles or mobile devices e.g. mobile phones tools for improving their travel experience. By way of example many vehicles and mobile devices are equipped with global positioning sensors GPS and navigation applications for acquiring maps and other location based information based on user provided search criteria. Unfortunately as the user repositions or shifts the map another search is executed which results in more data being acquired to update the map based on the new search results. Moreover portions of the map presented during the initial search that overlap with the new search area are acquired again resulting in redundancy of the data acquisition effort and more data use.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for optimizing the generation of a location based search and acquiring search results.

According to one embodiment a method for causing at least in part a generation of at least one first set of results for at least one first location based search associated with at least one first search area. The method also comprises receiving an input for requesting at least one second location based search associated with at least one second search area. The method also comprises causing at least in part an initiation of the at least one second location based search for at least one non overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the at least one second search area to generate at least one set of new results. The method also comprises causing at least in part a designation of at least one portion of the at least one first set of results as at least one set of old results wherein the at least one portion of the at least one first set of results is associated with at least one overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the least one second search area. The method further comprises causing at least in part a return of the at least one set of new results and the at least one set of old results as at least one second set of results for the at least one second location based search.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to generate at least one first set of results for at least one first location based search associated with at least one first search area. The apparatus is also caused to receive an input for requesting at least one second location based search associated with at least one second search area. The apparatus is also caused to initiate the at least one second location based search for at least one non overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the at least one second search area to generate at least one set of new results. The apparatus is also caused to designate at least one portion of the at least one first set of results as at least one set of old results wherein the at least one portion of the at least one first set of results is associated with at least one overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the least one second search area. The apparatus is further caused to return at least one set of new results and the at least one set of old results as at least one second set of results for the at least one second location based search.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to cause at least in part a generation of at least one first set of results for at least one first location based search associated with at least one first search area. The apparatus is also caused to receive an input for requesting at least one second location based search associated with at least one second search area. The apparatus is also caused to initiate at least one second location based search for at least one non overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the at least one second search area to generate at least one set of new results. The apparatus is also caused to designate at least one portion of the at least one first set of results as at least one set of old results wherein the at least one portion of the at least one first set of results is associated with at least one overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the least one second search area. The apparatus is further caused to return at least one set of new results and the at least one set of old results as at least one second set of results for the at least one second location based search.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part a generation of at least one first set of results for at least one first location based search associated with at least one first search area. The apparatus also comprises means for receiving an input for requesting at least one second location based search associated with at least one second search area. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part an initiation of the at least one second location based search for at least one non overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the at least one second search area to generate at least one set of new results. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a designation of at least one portion of the at least one first set of results as at least one set of old results wherein the at least one portion of the at least one first set of results is associated with at least one overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the least one second search area. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a return of the at least one set of new results and the at least one set of old results as at least one second set of results for the at least one second location based search.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing a method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for optimizing the generation of a location based search result are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As previously discussed service providers vehicle and device manufacturers are increasingly interested in developing location based services to provide vehicle and mobile device users with useful tools for navigating to destinations or conducting area based searches. The devices may utilize location based technologies e.g. Global Positioning System GPS receivers cellular triangulation assisted GPS A GPS etc. to track the relative location heading and movement of users. In addition the devices may be equipped with navigation and or mapping applications for interfacing with one or more services e.g. a navigation service to acquire maps point of interest data and the like that is relevant to the search request.

By way of example the search request for restaurants in a given zip code may be entered to the application resulting in the retrieval of location based information associated with this criterion. This may include for example retrieval of a map depicting the area zip code along with corresponding point of interest data representative of the restaurants in the area and their relative locations positions on the map. Typically the current location of the user serves as the center point for generation of the map. Hence the search is performed using a radius from the center point of the map using a radius from a user selected location on the map using a boxed search to cover the visible map area increasing the radius to cover the visible map area etc.

In some instances the user may not be satisfied with the initial search results as presented. Resultantly the user may initiate a subsequent search by repositioning the map changing the level of granularity e.g. zoom level filtering the results e.g. hot dogs versus general restaurants etc. For example when the user moves e.g. swipe or scroll the map the map and a new map search is executed the past search results are discarded and the points of interest that appeared in the previous search are presented again if they are within the search area. Unfortunately the repeating results are not differentiated from the new search results. This redundancy of presentment of the results also corresponds to redundancy of the search effort and hence increased data transmission acquisition on the part of the application as it interacts with the navigation service. There is currently no convenient means of optimizing a search request made by way of a navigation service in a manner that accounts for repeated search results.

To address this problem system of enables users to reduce data transmission when conducting a search request i.e. per a service. For the purpose of illustration a service based search request may include any search performed by way of an external or remote resource or service e.g. services of a user device. The system enables an overlapping area of a prior determined search result and that for generating a subsequent search result t to be readily identified. For example the overlapping area may correspond to a common array of geo coordinates location points points of interest content or the like for defining a common map view. By identifying the overlap the system enables the services and or application that accesses these services to initiate a search request on the basis of the non overlapping area thus minimizing the redundancy of the search effort and reducing overall data transmission data inflow and outflow .

For the purpose of illustration herein a search request may be initiated by a user via user equipment UE referred to collectively as UE by way of applications referred to collectively as applications . The user may specify search criteria via the application such as an address or a general area e.g. zip code state geographic zone area range . In addition the user may specify a location or point of interest type e.g. restaurant highway building landmark a contextual detail or any other information for defining the search. This criteria is then passed on to one or more services referred to collectively as services as maintained by a service platform for executing the search accordingly. Services may include for example a mapping service a navigation services a traffic service or any other location based service capable of being accessed by a calling application upon request over a communication network . Of note sensors referred to collectively as sensors may also collect sensory data such as location information speed information tilt information and the like in connection with a search request.

In one embodiment the applications services or a combination thereof may be configured to operate in connection with an optimization platform . The optimization platform may analyze the search results associated with a first search request and a second search request to identify at least one overlapping common area between the search results obtained pursuant to the different search requests. The common area may correspond to a common map view a common region or geographic range of interest a common set of geo coordinates or other any other location based information content or a combination thereof in common for fulfilling different search requests. Thus in the case where a first search request results in a first set of search results and a second search request results in a second set of search results the platform may interact with the applications and or services to determine any redundancy of data associated with respective search results.

In one embodiment the optimization platform causes generation of a first set of search results corresponding to a first search request. The search request may specify a particular search area and or criteria for defining and directing the search. By way of example the optimization platform may intercept and or facilitate a search request associated with a first search area as submitted via application . Once submitted the optimization platform may also initiate processing of the criteria to generate a first set of search results. As noted the search results may be presented to the user via the application as a map view along with corresponding point of interest data location coordinates etc. In addition the search results may be stored to a results database or other temporary data store.

It is noted that the results database is maintained locally by the UE or the platform for enabling rapid access to the results at a later time. By way of this approach the platform keeps record of prior historically performed search results for a given area. Also of note services may operate in connection with various content providers referred to collectively as content providers for generating and or acquiring maps visual data textual data audible data and the like that is to be presented to the user via a user interface of the application .

In one embodiment the optimization platform determines a second search request is initiated based on subsequently provided user input. The input may correspond to user specification of a second search area and or other criteria to be fulfilled. Moreover the input may be provided by way of an input field presented to the user interface by way of a controller of the user interface such as a scroll or zoom button by way of a touch screen interface or the like. For example in the case where a map representative of an area A is presented in connection with a first set of search results the platform interacts with the application to detect when the user drags the map expands it swipes it left right up or down etc.

In one embodiment the optimization platform determines if there is an overlapping area shared between the first search results as stored to database and that associated with the second search request. By way of example the platform may determine the overlapping by comparing the area defined by the first search results as stored to that specified per the second search request to determine the difference. For example the first search results as stored may correspond to an array of geo coordinates location points points of interest content or the like for defining a first map view corresponding to a given area e.g. per the level of granularity of the first search . Similarly the input for initiating the second search request may correspond to an array of geo coordinates location points points of interest content or the like for defining a second map view. Hence the platform is able to differentiate between the overlapping and non overlapping areas accordingly. It is noted that the array may correspond to a two dimensional or three dimensional data set depending on the type of map view to be rendered via the data while the range of said data set is determined at least in part on the level of granularity associated with the search.

In one embodiment the platform determines an optimal search result set based on the determined overlapping and non overlapping search results. The optimal search result set is based on the determined overlapping area as described above. As such the result set corresponds to an array of geo coordinates location points points of interest content or the like for defining the common area between the prior first search results as gathered and the second search request. In another embodiment the platform then flags the optimal result set as a set of data that is to be restricted from being submitted to the services for fulfilling the second search request. By way of example the second search request is submitted by the platform to specify a requirement for only location based information corresponding to the non overlapping area pursuant to the second search request. By way of this approach the platform only submits the request in accordance with the array of data corresponding to the new area non overlapping area as opposed to submitting the request based on both the prior determined data set overlapping area and non overlapping data set. This reduces the amount of data transmitted to the service by the application for initiating the request. Furthermore as at least a portion of the search results are already locally stored the amount of data to be acquired from the service to fulfill the second search request is minimized.

In one embodiment the search results returned pursuant to the second search request are presented to the user via the user interface of the application . By way of example the user is presented with a list of search results where the prior search results e.g. those which overlap are differentiated from new ones. The results may be ordered for presentment based on this differentiation. For example in the case where the second search request is for ice cream parlors within a given area the prior determined search results may be ordered first in the list. The first new result within the list e.g. the first non overlapping search result may be highlighted for distinguishing it from the prior results. Per this approach the user may swipe down the list to see repeated search results or up to see the new results.

Alternatively the results may be presented in a map view rather than in list form. Per this approach the map view may be highlighted for distinguishing the prior determined map view from the newly determined map view. Under this scenario for instance a user of UE may swipe or scroll their screen to the right to see prior determined map view corresponding to the first search results while swiping left to see the map view corresponding to the second search result.

In one embodiment subsequent search results are also stored to the results database as prior determined results data. As such in the case of the previous example when the user swipes beyond the map view corresponding to the second search results the platform initiates a third search request based on the above described executions. Per this approach the optimization platform keeps the search active since acquisition of the first search result until the user exits the application or selects at least one search result. This contiguous search processing reduces the amount of user interaction required to conduct the search and in the case of a driver lessens the number of distractions. The user need only select a new center point for the search by tapping on or panning the map i.e. via a touchscreen display.

In one embodiment the optimization platform may also enable expansion of searches outside the determined common search area. This approach corresponds to a scenario wherein the amount of data to be transmitted by the application and or acquired is unlimited. By way of example some vehicle based navigation systems may be limited to a certain amount of data and thus best suited for limiting the search to the area in common between the first search result and that defined for initiating the second search request. However when no data limit applies the search experience may be improved by extending the search area outside the current search radius based on the previous search context. This enables performance of a corridor search wherein the search may be extended along a potential route of the user in the direction the user is moving along or adapted to acquire a result just outside the currently visible map view. Under this scenario the platform supports the expanded search based on the previous search geocoordinates.

In addition the corridor may be based on search patterns resulting from the previously performed and stored search results. As such the user need not provide addition input for extending the search. Rather the search may continue to be extended multiple times by the platform based on the historical search pattern of user until the matching result is identified. In addition the platform may further utilize any user defined waypoints or location destinations along a defined navigation route to further expand the search.

It is noted that the search results from the expanded search area may be presented after the primary search results are acquired. Alternatively the expanded search result may be presented as a first selection option in the case where it is a better match for fulfilling the search criteria. For example a user of UE that is currently at location coordinates A B having no gas stations within range may be presented with a map view or list corresponding to a distant location X Y having a gas station within range. This map view may be presented despite the lack of common area for these respective location coordinates.

In one embodiment the optimization platform also interfaces with a profile database which stores data related to one or more users that access the optimization platform . The profile database may exist in whole or part within the optimization platform or independently. The profile database maintains credentials associated with a specific user of the application user details user preference information and like for uniquely identifying the UE and or the user requiring access to the optimization platform . The profile as created for the user and or UE may further be associated with search results maintained in the database . As such a history of search results and areas may be readily retrieved in response to subsequent future search requests placed by the user via the application .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device in vehicle navigation systems personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UEs optimization platform the service platform and the content providers communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the optimization platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the optimization platform via an application . The subscription process may correspond to the period of initial subscription download or integration of the application at the UE . Preferences and settings information including a preferred mode of search performance or search granularity e.g. zoom level may be established for the user and referenced to the user as a profile maintained in database .

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Registration data for respective subscribers which contains pertinent user or device profile data may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile data for the user and or UE with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

Still further the authentication module may operate in connection with the communication module to facilitate interact with the service platform and or the various services . Per this execution the authentication procedure may extend to the services for enabling the application to interface with the services to exchange data credentials etc. Still further the authentication module may serve as a conduit for facilitating execution of a search based on receipt of a search request transmitted per the application .

The context module may process contextual information collected by one or more sensors of the UE . As such the module processes relevant information for determining vehicular user or environmental conditions that may impact a search request. In addition the context module operates in connection with the services to process location based for determining current location e.g. geographic coordinates temporal information and speed information regarding a UE .

The prior results module maintains a store of a determined search result. This may include for example data such as geo coordinates location points points of interest content or the like for defining a first area. This area may be further visually represented to depict a specific map view corresponding to the defined area. By storing such data locally the prior results module may be readily called upon subsequently by the determination module for determining a difference between the stored prior search area and a search area defined by a subsequent search request. As such the determination module performs the overlapping and non overlapping area search analysis in conjunction with the prior results module . Based on the results the module further tags and or associates the overlapping data for the common area such that it is differentiated from the new area.

Still further the determination module initiates transmission of a search request based on only the determined non overlapping area. As such the module ensure the request is submitted in accordance with the array of data corresponding to the new area non overlapping area as opposed to submitting the request based on both the prior determined data set overlapping area and non overlapping data set.

The communication module is used for communication between the optimization platform the services the applications and the various databases . The communication module may be used to communicate commands requests data etc. By way of example the communication module may be used to transit a request from a user interface UI of a UE to obtain location based information e.g. turn by turn navigation regarding a point of interest.

The user interface module operates in connection with the communication module to affect the presentment of information to a user interface of the application . For example the user interface module presents a user with location based information obtained as a result of a submitted search request. The search results may be presented in map form list form or a combination thereof. Of note the user interface module may execute various application programming interfaces API for facilitating the display of graphic elements via the application based on execution of the other modules .

The above presented modules and components of the optimization platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UEs . As such the optimization platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UE as a platform or combination thereof.

In step of process the optimization platform causes at least in part a generation of at least one first set of results for at least one first location based search associated with at least one first search area. In step the platform receives an input for requesting at least one second location based search associated with at least one second search area. As noted the input may include a scrolling of a map a panning or zooming of the map etc. In addition the input may include a physical change in direction or movement of the user. In another step the platform causes at least in part an initiation of the at least one second location based search for at least one non overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the at least one second search area to generate at least one set of new results. As noted previously non overlapping area corresponds to that area associated with the second search area that has no location information in common with the first search area.

In step the optimization platform causes a designation of at least one portion of the at least one first set of results as at least one set of old results wherein the at least one portion of the at least one first set of results is associated with at least one overlapping area of the at least one first search area and the least one second search area. This corresponds to a tagging and or flagging of the data sets corresponding to the overlapping and non overlapping areas as old and new respectively for differentiation purposes.

Per step the platform causes at least in part a return of the at least one set of new results and the at least one set of old results as at least one second set of results for the at least one second location based search. It is noted that the at least one set of new results is transmitted between at least one search server and at least one device requesting the at least one second location based server. Also the at least one set of old results is retrieved from at least one storage associated with the at least one device.

In step of process the optimization platform causes at least in part a creation of at least one result database in the at least one storage. As noted the at least one result database stores at least in part the at least one first set of results the at least one second set of results the at least one set of new results the at least one set of old results or a combination thereof. Also this result database may be stored locally for rapid retrieval and data access pursuant to a subsequent search request.

In step the optimization platform determines that the at least one second location based search is a repeating search of the at least one first location based search. In another step the platform further causes at least in part an expansion of the at least one second search area wherein the at least one second location based search is further based on the expansion. As noted previously the expansion may correspond to a scenario wherein the search capability or data accessibility of the navigation application UE or user is unlimited.

In step of process the optimization platform determines at least one corridor area for conducting the at least one second location based search. As noted the expansion is based at least in part on the at least one corridor area. In step the platform determines one or more destinations one or more waypoints or a combination thereof associated with the one or more navigation routes the one or more previous location based searches or a combination thereof. The expansion of the search may be based at least in part on the one or more destinations the one or more waypoints or a combination thereof.

Per step the optimization platform further causes at least in part a repetition of the expansion until there is at least one matching result for the at least one second location based search. In another step the platform causes at least in part a presentation of at least one result user interface for displaying the at least one second set of results. It is noted that the at least one result user interface differentially renders the at least one set of new results and the at least one set of old results comprising the at least one second set of results.

In the user interface for the device of the user is shown. In this example the interface corresponds to a startup screen for the navigation application. The user is prompted to enter an address or place of interest they wish to search for via data entry field . In this case the user has activated the sensors of the device to enable the gathering of contextual information such as the user s current location current time of search initiation etc. based on the search query. For the purpose of illustration the user enters the search term Ice Cream and selects the GO THERE action button for initiating and acquiring search results corresponding to the criteria.

In in response to initiation of the search the optimization platform acquires information regarding ice cream vendors within a defined search range. The search range corresponds to an area in which results may be identified and presented with respect to the search request. Under this scenario an ice cream parlor corresponding to point of interest is identified and presented. The current location of the user serves as a reference point for centering the map view within the search area . Still further the platform stores the result to a local database for subsequent retrieval and analysis.

Unsatisfied with the search result e.g. point of interest the user decides to alter the current map view to see if they can identify other search results. The user swipes their finger per hand in a downward diagonal motion in order to view potential results that are not currently shown and change the orientation of the map. Motion results in the generation of a subsequent search request corresponding to a second map area . For the purpose of illustration the second map area is shown in dotted line form to represent the inability of the user to see the map relative to the first search area .

In response to the new search request the optimization platform analyzes the first and second search areas and respectively to determine if there are any areas of overlap between them. Under this scenario the platform retrieves the first search results and compares this with the second search area to determine if an overlap area exists between them. As depicted herein as shaded area the platform determines an area in common to both the first search area and the second search area . Per this determination the platform then designates the overlap area as an optimized search result set. In addition the platform identifies and designates the portion of the map presented within the second area but less the shaded area as the new area.

Based on the designations the optimization platform initiates the second search request based on only the new area rather than on the entirety of the second search area . As such only the geocoordinates corresponding to the new area are submitted to the service for execution of the search while the overlap area is retrieved directly from the local database. It is noted that by conducting the search on the basis of the new area the amount of data required to be transmitted and or acquired to render the second search results is lessened.

In the second search results are shown as a map view corresponding to the second search area . For the purpose of illustration the first search area is depicted as a dotted line positioned in an offset manner to represent the altering of the map view based on the user provided input e.g. motion . Under this scenario the user is now able to view the points of interest and corresponding to the search criteria for this particular area . Unlike the first map area two different locations for the user are presented including one e.g. that is within close proximity to the center point of the map e.g. a pending location of the user . Of note the total amount of data transmitted and or acquired to generate the search result as shown per area is reduced as a result of not duplicating the search acquisition effort. Also

In the search results are presented in list mode instead of map view. Under this scenario the first new search result as determined per motion is highlighted in the list. The platform highlights the search result to enable the user to easily distinguish between the new results and the old results of the search. While not shown expressly herein the map view may also be highlighted in some fashion to enable users to distinguish between old and new points of interest or other data as presented when the user scrolls between the first and second map search areas and .

Per in the case where the user was not satisfied with the second set of results per the second search area the optimization platform enables the search procedure to be expanded automatically. For example when the user swipes beyond the second map area corresponding to a third map area the platform automatically initiates a third search request. The resulting map view rendered as a result of this request is based on the previous search results corresponding to search area as stored wherein only the non overlapping area between areas and are requested. Thus the optimization platform keeps the search active since acquisition of the first search result corresponding to search area until the user exits the application or selects at least one search result they are satisfied with.

Still further the platform enables a corridor search to be performed wherein the search area is expanded to include define encompass area that was not originally defined per the search. Under this scenario the areas labeled A B C and D are formed per the corridor pathway between respective search areas and . It is noted that while areas A D are the result of a straight line motion e.g. finger swipe of the user other movement patterns may also be executed for initiating a search. For example the user may execute a curved motion e.g. as reflected by curved lines resulting in the generation of a map area . This corresponds to an area E formed per a corridor pathway between search area and . Thus the optimization platform may therefore account for a variety of movement patterns including random patterns for enabling automated search expansion. Also the search corridor does not have to match the navigation route originally set by the user in order to enable the expansion of a search.

It is noted that the speed direction and number of swipes executed by the user via the touch screen interface may define how far new searches are expanded. For example if the user swipes fast multiple times multiple additional searches are performed automatically versus the user having to swipe slowly or only once from original map view. Also the actual change in motion and or location of the user may be utilized as input for expanding the search. For example if the user is starts moving from their current location while a current area map is presented the motion is processed as input for initiating another location based search. As such the movement of the user relative to their position location against the map is identical to a direct input at the device.

Still further a new search corridor or search area may be defined based on any waypoints or location points set during the course of a navigation search. For example in the case of the newly created map area the distance r from the original search map area is used to define the new distance or search radius . Similarly in the case where a location point was set as part of the original navigation route the motion of the user or repositioning of the map towards or away from the location point may decrease or increase the search radius. By way of example when the user swipes the map to generate map area the distance x from the location point to the perimeter of the map area redefines the overall shape or extent of the new search area. This corresponds to dynamic resizing and reshaping of the search area or search radius . In certain instances the platform may generate a notification message or alert in instances where the extent of the search area is approaching or reaches a predefined limit. This execution ensures the search doesn t expand too far away from the location point. While not shown the search may also be expanded to encompass scenarios wherein the search areas do not overlap i.e. due to their large distance from one another. In this case this type of search may be performed by the platform even when the user is not in a navigation mode of travel. This is due to the fact that the corridor search is based on the pattern created from the previous searches. In addition the corridor may be defined based on any waypoints of location points that have been set during the course of a navigation search.

It is noted that the above described contiguous search processing approaches reduce the amount of user interaction required to conduct and expand a search.

The processes described herein for optimizing the generation of a location based search result may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network either use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to optimize the generation of a location based search result. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of optimizing the generation of a location based search result. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to optimize the generation of a location based search result. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

