---

title: Multi-stage push notifications for software logistic tools
abstract: An incident associated with a software logistic tool occurs. At a host agent a notification for the incident is received. The host agent is associated with a corresponding host where the software logistic tool is running. The notification for the incident is pushed to a customer operation cockpit operating at a customer system landscape via a push channel for communication from the software logistic tool to the customer operation cockpit. The notification for the incident is received at the customer operation cockpit for a customer support user to analyze.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09354871&OS=09354871&RS=09354871
owner: SAP SE
number: 09354871
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140626
---
Typically software vendors provide support to customers of their software systems. Support process of customers software systems could be tedious and time consuming. Often information technology IT administrators of a customer are responsible for a large number of systems processes running on those systems tools etc. Typically a central IT console operating at the customer system landscape works on a pull basis to retrieve operational status of respective software systems that operate at the customer system landscape. For example the central IT console may be regularly calling a number of software logistic SL tools to retrieve an updated execution and runtime status of the tools. An example of SL tools may be SL Toolset provided by SAP. Regularly calling or requesting data from the SL tools may overload the central IT console and networks with unnecessary traffic especially in larger customer system landscapes.

Further the process from the time a customer s IT administrator acknowledges an error to the time the error is resolved may be slow. For example a customer IT administrator observes errors or issues pulled from the SL tools by the central IT console. Then the IT administrator analyzes the problem and may take the decision to create a ticket describing the problem and send the ticket to the support organization of the software vendor. The support organization in turn may request an online connection to the customer s system landscape to analyze the problem and may respond back to the ticket by providing solution guidance for the IT administrator to execute. This process is time consuming and delays resolution of problems that may occur with the SL tools.

Embodiments of techniques for hybrid applications operating between on premise and cloud platforms are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Typically software vendors provide support at various levels such as maximum attention support or enterprise support. Fees for the support services are according to the level of quality of the services provided. In one embodiment real time support may be provided where customer IT administrators and vendor support and development experts are updated real time with execution and runtime status of respective SL tools. SL tools automate among others system provisioning software installation patching upgrade configuration etc. In one embodiment multi stage push notification communication is implemented by establishing push channels for communication across a customer system landscape and a vendor support center.

Customer operation cockpit is central console from where software supplied by software provider installed on the hosts of customer system landscape may be deployed and changed managed supported monitored etc. A corresponding host agent is associated with a host for remote management of the host via the host agent. For example host agent is associated with host . Host agent is a process that runs on host and may regularly pull SL tool for runtime and execution status. Communication to software installed on host is established via host agent . Customer operation cockpit interfaces with one or more SL tools such as SL tool via host agent . For example instructions to SL tool for starting stopping upgrading or otherwise managing software installed on host are routed through host agent . In one embodiment a first stage or a first push communication channel from a multi stage push notifications communication may be established from SL tool to host agent. Host agent may receive information or notifications pushed by one or More SL tools via the first push communication channel. Alternatively host agent may pull or Collect information from the one or more SL tools. An alternative implementation may be to call the SL tools from the customer operation cockpit directly. In this case the tools take over the tasks of the host agent described below.

Hosts of customer system landscape are registered with customer operation cockpit to be managed from customer operation cockpit for example by an IT administrator or other support expert of the customer. In one embodiment to configure computer system landscape for multi stage push notification communication customer operation cockpit sends parameters for communication to host agents of corresponding hosts that are registered with customer operation cockpit . In one embodiment the parameters may include but are not limited to identification of monitoring controller address of monitoring controller callback credentials etc. Upon receiving the parameters host agent establishes a push communication channel to monitoring controller using the received callback credentials. Once the push communication channel between host agent and monitoring controller is established host agent may push information to customer operation cockpit . For example host agent may push notifications to monitoring controller that includes runtime and execution status of SL tool . In addition customer operation cockpit may send to host agent parameters for push communication from host agent to mobile controller . In one embodiment the parameters may include but are not limited to identification of mobile controller address of mobile controller callback credentials etc. Upon receiving the parameters host agent establishes the push communication channel from host agent to mobile controller using the received callback credentials. In one embodiment push notifications from host agent to customer operation cockpit may be a second stage or a first push channel from a multi stage push notifications communication for SL tool .

A third stage or a third push channel of the multi stage push notifications communication may be established between customer operation cockpit and mobile push notification server of mobile infrastructure . An example of mobile infrastructure may be SAP Mobile Platform provided by SAP. Mobile infrastructure may include both hardware and software for creation deployment management monitoring etc. of mobile applications. An example of mobile push notification server may be Apple Push Notification Server provided by Apple Inc. In one embodiment once the push communication channel from customer operation cockpit to mobile push notification server is established customer operation cockpit and in particular mobile controller may push information to mobile push notification server. When information is pushed to mobile push notification server from customer operation cockpit or another server mobile push notification server pushes or otherwise sends the information to one or more mobile devices such as mobile device . For example mobile push notification server may push notifications to an SL monitoring application where the push notifications may include runtime and execution status of SL tool . SL monitoring application may need to be configured to allow incoming push notifications.

Vendor support center is a central system from where experts of software provider may provide support for one or more SL tools supplied to one or more customers by software provider . One or more customer operation cockpits may be registered with vendor support center . Vendor support center may receive push notifications and other information from one or more customer operation cockpits at monitoring console . In one embodiment a fourth stage or a fourth push channel of the multi stage push notifications communication may be established between customer operation cockpit and monitoring console of vendor support center of software provider . Customer operation cockpit sends parameters for push communication to monitoring console . For example customer operation cockpit may send identification of a customer s support expert and respective credentials of the customer s support expert. Vendor support center verifies access permissions and authorizations of respective customer operation cockpits and associate the push notifications received from the customer operation cockpits with the customer operation cockpit from where the push notifications originate. Through the fourth push channel monitoring controller may share monitoring data such as runtime and execution status for SL tool with monitoring console . Therefore runtime and execution status of SL tools may be proactively shared with the support organization of the software provider without submitting tickets for errors and incidents that may occur with the SL tools.

In one embodiment customer operation cockpit may distribute push notifications to a target audience of software provider according to parameters included in the push notifications such as type of respective SL tool type. In one embodiment a member of the target audience may send a hint to a customer support expert via hints editor using the credentials sent by customer operation cockpit . The hint may be received at hints screen of customer opera on cockpit for the customer support expert to analyze.

In one embodiment the multi stage push communication channels may be enabled and disabled. For example a combination of enabled push communication channels may be enabled by selecting or unselecting channels . The multi stage push commination channels may be established to enable proactive communication or push notification from one or more SL tools throughout both the customer and vendor support centers. An advantage may be that the time from when an error or incident occurs with an SL tool to when support experts of both the customer and the software provider acknowledge the error may be reduced.

Upon receiving the notification for the incident at the host agent at the notification is pushed to a customer operation cockpit operating at the customer system landscape via a push channel for communication from the host agent to the customer operation cockpit. Upon receiving the notification for the incident at the customer operation cockpit at the notification is pushed to a vendor support console via a push channel for communication from the customer operation cockpit to the vendor support console. For example the notification may be pushed from monitoring controller of customer operation cockpit to monitoring console of vendor support center .

Upon receiving the notification for the incident at the vendor support console at a hint is sent from the vendor support console to the customer operation cockpit via a push channel for communication from the vendor support console to the customer operation cockpit. For example a development or support expert may monitor incidents pushed to a monitoring console of the vendor. Upon acknowledging the reported incident the expert may proactively provide hints or other guidelines to the customer for resolving the reported issues via the push channel for communication from the vendor support console to the customer operation cockpit.

Upon receiving the notification for the incident at the customer operation cockpit at the notification is pushed to a mobile push notification server via a push channel for communication from the customer operation cockpit to the mobile push notification server. In turn upon receiving the notification for the incident at the mobile push notification server at the notification is pushed to a mobile application for monitoring SL tools via a push channel for communication from the mobile push notification server to the mobile application for monitoring SL tools. Thus a customer IT administrator may be proactively notified by pushing incident notifications to a mobile device of the customer IT administrator.

Upon triggering the event at a first push notification for the event is sent to a host agent associated with the host. The first push notification may include among other information identification of the respective SL tool and description of the event. At the first push notification is received at the host agent. The first push notification may be received via a first push communication channel from the SL tool to the host agent. Alternatively the host agent may actively pull the SL tool for execution and runtime status.

Upon receiving the first push notification at the host agent at a second push notification for the event is sent to a customer operation cockpit. For example the second push notification may be sent to monitoring controller of customer operation cockpit . The second push notification is based on the first push notification e.g. the second push notification includes the first push notification. In addition the second push notification may include identification of the host agent. The second push notification sent to the customer operation cockpit by the host agent. At the second push notification is received at the customer operation cockpit. For example the second push notification may be received at monitoring controller in . The second push notification may be received via a second push communication channel from the host agent to the customer operation cockpit.

Upon receiving the second push notification at the customer operation cockpit at a third push notification for the event is sent to a vendor support center. For example the third push notification may be sent to monitoring console of vendor support center of software provider . The third push notification is based on the second push notification e.g. the third push notification includes the second push notification. In addition the third push notification may include identification of a customer support user credentials of the customer support user and reference to information related to the event e.g. a link to a log file representing operational activity of the SL tool . At the third push notification is received at the vendor support center. For example the third push notification may be received at monitoring console of vendor support center . The third push notification is received at the vendor support center via a third push channel for communication from the customer operation cockpit to the vendor support center.

At upon receiving the third push notification at the vendor support center the event is reported to a vendor monitoring console for one or more vendor s experts to analyze. Therefore events or incidents related to runtime and execution status of SL tools are reported real time to a central support center of the vendor by pushing the event or incident notification throughout the customer system landscape to the central support center of the vendor. In addition additional information related to the reported events or incidents may also be proactively pushed to the central support center of the vendor. Once the event is reported to the vendor monitoring console and analyzed by the vendor s expert at a hint is sent by a vendor expert to the customer operation cockpit for support user of the customer to execute. In one embodiment the hint may be sent via a sixth push communication channel from the vendor support center to the customer operation cockpit. The sixth push communication channel established using the credentials of the support expert of the customer. The hint may be sent by the vendor expert via a hints editor of the vendor support center. The hint may be displayed on a hints screen of the customer operation cockpit. For example the hint may be pushed from hints editor to hints screen . In one embodiment upon receiving the hint at the customer operation cockpit the customer support user may receive push notification for the hint at a mobile application for monitoring SL tools.

In one embodiment the portion of process illustrated in may commence in parallel with step . Process is not limited by the ordering of steps illustrated in . Upon receiving the second push notification at the customer operation cockpit at a fourth push notification for the event is sent to a mobile push notification server according to one embodiment. For example the fourth notification may be sent to mobile push notification server of mobile infrastructure by mobile controller of customer operation cockpit . The fourth push notification is based on the second push notification e.g. the fourth push notification includes the second push notification. In addition the fourth push notification may also include a reference to information related to the event and credentials of the customer support user. At the fourth push notification is received at the mobile push notification server. The fourth push notification may be received via a fourth push communication channel from the customer operation cockpit to the mobile push notification server. For example the fourth push communication channel may be established from mobile controller to mobile push notification server . Upon receiving the fourth push notification at the mobile push notification server at a fifth push notification is sent to a mobile application for monitoring SL tools installed on a mobile device. The fifth push notification is based on the fourth push notification and may include additional information. The fifth push notification is sent to the mobile application via a fifth push communication channel from the mobile push notification server to the mobile application for monitoring SL tools. Therefore events or incidents related to runtime and execution status of SL tools are reported real time to a mobile application by pushing the event or incident notification throughout the customer system landscape to the mobile device of a support expert or user of the customer.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or More software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. A computer readable storage medium may be a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Examples of a non transitory computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Data Base Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

