---

title: Systems and methods for managing access to benefits associated with products
abstract: Systems and methods for managing access to electronic products are described. In an embodiment, a system implemented method includes receiving, from a source, a first code associated with an item; receiving, from another source, another first code and a second code associated with the item; evaluating the first code with the another first code; associating the second code with the first code based on a result from the evaluating; identifying an access key, and transmitting the access key to the second source, the access key is for accessing one or more rights associated with the item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171298&OS=09171298&RS=09171298
owner: DVDCASE, INC.
number: 09171298
owner_city: Calgary
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20140529
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 960 entitled System and Methods for Managing Access to Benefits Associated with Products and filed Mar. 13 2013 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 829 199 filed May 30 2013 the contents of the continuation in part application and the provisional application are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties as if set forth in full.

The U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 960 is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 405 227 filed on Feb. 24 2012 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 727 662 filed Nov. 16 2012 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 638 041 filed Apr. 25 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 652 967 filed May 30 2012 the contents of all three provisional application are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties as if set forth in full. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 405 227 claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 446 390 filed Feb. 24 2011 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 489 622 filed May 24 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 500 185 filed Jun. 23 2011.

This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 015 filed Mar. 13 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 038 filed Mar. 13 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 050 filed Mar. 13 2013.

The embodiments described herein relate generally to the field of secured access technologies and more particularly to systems and methods for managing access to benefits such as digital rights associated with a purchased product.

In the retail industry it is often desirable to provide a benefit to a consumer that is dependent on a particular item being sold. In some cases the benefit may be a right to access media content e.g. a downloadable copy of a motion picture where such a right is authorized only after the product has been sold. In other cases the benefit may simply refer to some feature advantage or provision associated with either the actual product for sale the manufacturer or retailer selling the product or a particular geographic region where the product is being sold e.g. special features rewards warranties return policies promotional or exclusive offers complementary goods repair or maintenance policies off site merchandise etc. .

However with existing solutions there is often a risk that the benefit may be claimed or accessed by someone other than the original purchaser due to illicit acquisition of an access code contained within the product being sold or within its packaging. In many instances merchandise within the store may be opened and the access code photographed or otherwise records. This activity often remains undetected as the merchandise may be subsequently reassembled appearing as if its contents have not been compromised.

Certain conventional techniques utilize a code comprising a human readable text string machine readable code or a symbology such as a bar code or Quick Response QR code that remains hidden while the item is sold. For example some codes may be concealed within areas intended to be scratched off or otherwise peeled away. In other cases the code may be printed on the inside of the merchandise and is accessible only after the product or product packaging has been opened e.g. a code printed on the inside of a bottle cap or on an insert of an optical disc case. To varying degrees each of these methods relies on the consumer or merchant properly identifying and rejecting any merchandise appearing to have been compromised or potentially accessed by an unauthorized party prior to the item being purchased e.g. as when a bottle cap appears to have been already removed from the bottle when the scratch layer of a gift card appears to have been tampered with when the seal on an optical disc case has been removed or otherwise compromised . However the access codes of many such products may be compromised and then returned to store shelves. Absent evidence of tampering an unsuspecting purchaser may wind up purchasing the item only to later discover that the access code has already been used and is thus no longer valid.

Another drawback of utilizing only a single unique hidden code is that such systems do not enable the tracking of individual items sold at particular retailers. A stock keeping unit SKU code may be affixed to merchandise but such a code only describes the category of item being sold as opposed to any individual unit contained within that category. This prevents manufacturers distributors and retailers from attaching certain benefits e.g. rights only to items sold at particular stores or within particular geographic regions. In other words tracking SKU codes does not allow merchandise to be traced back to a particular store or geographic region.

Additionally without authorization of particular items at the point of sale location there is an increased risk that an unauthorized party will utilize a script or other program to test a large number codes in order to identify a subset of authorized codes. In addition if a specific mathematical function has been used to generate each code key generators may be derived and distributed all across the Internet. This enables potentially hundreds of thousands of unauthorized individuals to access the included benefit.

Some conventional techniques utilize only a point of sale code such as a human readable text string machine readable code barcode or QR code. However this technique also presents various complications. In cases where the product may only be activated at the point of sale this requires the store to maintain a continually active network connection. Otherwise the consumer is forced to wait for some period for a delayed activation. In other cases the access code must remain visible to the line of sight of a bar code scanner. With the code being visible on the product packaging itself illicit acquisition of the code may be a concern.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID tags are another means of attempting to securely provide the information but these tags are relatively expensive compared to optical codes. These devices are also costly to embed within products and require either that consumers have RFID readers with which to read the hidden code after the item has been purchased or otherwise require significant infrastructure upgrades throughout the supply chain.

What is needed is a tamper evident system of securing access to benefits such as rights that are included with the purchase of a product. Ideally the system will be less expensive than RFID technology and yet less susceptible to fraud or exploitation than conventional hidden code or point of sale systems or a combination thereof . Additionally the system should also enable manufacturers distributors and retailers to attach localized benefits e.g. rights to individual items of a single category of products that are being sold at different dates and or times at different stores or within different geographic locations.

Accordingly systems and methods are disclosed for securing access to benefits associated with purchased products. In an embodiment packaging for a product such as an optical disc e.g. Blu ray disc or other electronic device e.g. laptop computer is labeled with a unique first code. When the product is purchased the first code may be read at a point of sale and transmitted to authentication server s which store the first code. After the product is opened and or when the product is first utilized by the purchaser of the product the first code and a second code which is internal to the product or packaging are transmitted to the authentication server s . In certain embodiments the second code may be a code printed on an internal region or insert of the product packaging or on the product itself e.g. electronically inscribed in a machine readable region of the product such as Burst Cutting Area of a Blu ray disc . The authentication server s may then compare the first code to stored first codes to verify that the product was obtained through a valid purchase transaction at a point of sale. If so the purchaser may be provided with benefits or offers of benefits such as access rights associated with the product. For example the purchaser may be provided access to content on a Blu ray disc or access to a laptop computer. In addition the authentication server s may store an association between the first code and the second code for subsequent utilization of the product and retailer specific communications.

In an embodiment at least two code may be included upon a substrate to be inserted or affixed to a product or alternatively upon a surface or material of the product or its packaging. The respective codes may together form a unique code which maps to a set of rights or benefits intended to be conferred upon a consumer. The codes may be duplex printed upon the substrate or product material in order to curb or eliminate matching errors. In other embodiments one code may be printed on an externally visible region of a product packaging and the other code may be printed within the product packaging or on the product itself e.g. in a Burst Cutting Area of a Blu ray disc and may be human readable and or machine readable.

In some embodiments the substrate or product material may be selected configured or assembled so as to readily evidence product tampering. Various embodiments advantageously enable product localization e.g. association of a purchased product with the retailer or retail location that the product was sold without the collection of personal information from the consumer while simultaneously curbing illicit access from unauthorized parties to the set of rights or benefits that are included with the sale of the product.

In an exemplary aspect a substrate is disclosed. The substrate contains identifiers used for securing access to a benefit included with the sale of a product. In one embodiment the substrate comprises a first identifier disposed upon a first surface of the substrate and a second identifier disposed upon a second surface of the substrate the first and second identifiers being duplex printed on the substrate and configured to form a unique identifier which maps to a set of one or more rules at a remote computing device wherein the substrate is configured to be disposed within a container associated with the product such that the second identifier is visible or readable only when the container has been opened.

In an exemplary aspect a material is disclosed. The material bears identifiers used for securing access to a benefit included with the sale of a product. In one embodiment the material comprises a first identifier disposed upon a first surface of the material and a second identifier disposed upon a second surface of the material the first and second identifiers being duplex printed on the material and configured to form a unique identifier which maps to a set of one or more rules at a remote computing device wherein the material is configured to form at least a portion of the product and is positioned such that the second identifier is visible only when the product has been opened.

In an exemplary aspect a computer implemented method for controlling media access is provided. The method comprises receiving from a source a first code of a media product the first code is unique to the media product. The method further comprises authorizing the media product based on the first code and information about the source. Further the method comprises receiving from another source the first code and a second code of media the product the second code is unique to the media product. The method determines whether the first code is authorized and if the first code is authorized the method identifies an encryption key for the media product based on the second code and transmits the encryption key to the second source. The encryption key enables access to content of the media product.

In one embodiment the method further comprises providing to the another source for presenting license terms associating with accessing the content of the media product and receiving input indicating an acceptance by a user the license terms.

In one embodiment the encryption key comprises an expiration period and the reaching of the expiration period indicates that access to the content of the media product is disabled. The access to content of the media product is limited to a number of accesses.

In one embodiment the encryption key enables access to the content of the media product by decrypting the content of the media product.

In one embodiment wherein the receiving from another source the first code comprises receiving the first code captured by a camera at the another source.

In one embodiment wherein the receiving from another source the second code comprises receiving the second code read by the another source wherein the second code is not human readable and the second source is not a human.

In one embodiment if the first code is not authorized identifying another encryption key for the media product based on at least one rule and transmitting the another encryption key to the second source the encryption key enables access to content of the media product with at least one restriction not associated with the encryption key.

In one embodiment the method further comprises storing one or more of the first code the second code the encryption key and information associated with the second source.

In an exemplary aspect a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions is provided. The instructions comprise receiving from a source a first code of a media product the first code is unique to the media product authorizing the media product based on the first code and information about the source receiving from another source the first code and a second code of media the product the second code is unique to the media product determining whether the first code is authorized if the first code is authorized identifying an encryption key for the media product based on the second code and transmitting the encryption key to the second source the encryption key enables access to content of the media product.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium further comprising if the first code is not authorized identifying another encryption key for the media product based on at least one rule and transmitting the another encryption key to the second source the encryption key enables access to content of the media product with at least one restriction not associated with the encryption key.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium further comprising providing a message to the another source for presenting.

In one embodiment the access to content of the media product is limited to a time period a number of accesses or both.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium further comprising storing one or more of the first code the second code the encryption key and information associated with the second source.

In an exemplary aspect at least one computing device comprising storage and a processor configured to perform a series of operations is provided. The operations include receiving from a source a first code of a media product the first code is unique to the media product authorizing the media product based on the first code and information about the source receiving from another source the first code and a second code of media the product the second code is unique to the media product determining whether the first code is authorized if the first code is authorized identifying an encryption key for the media product based on the second code and transmitting the encryption key to the second source the encryption key enables access to content of the media product.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device further comprising if the first code is not authorized identifying another encryption key for the media product based on at least one rule and transmitting the another encryption key to the second source the encryption key enables access to content of the media product with at least one restriction not associated with the encryption key.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device further comprising providing a message to the another source for presenting.

In one embodiment wherein the access to content of the media product is limited to a time period a number of accesses or both.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device further comprising storing one or more of the first code the second code the encryption key and information associated with the second source.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device further comprising transmitting another encryption key to the second source the another encryption key enables access to other content of the media product.

In an exemplary example a computer implemented method for authorizing content is provided. The method comprising receiving from a first source information comprises a key for accessing content recorded on a disc storing the key a pre recorded media serial number PMSN and a product serial number PSN receiving from a second source another PSN the another PSN determining that the PSN and the another PSN is a same code recording data that indicates the disc is authenticated if the PSN and the another PSN is the same code receiving from a third source at least one of the PSN and the PMSN determining that the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN identifies the disc and if the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN identifies the disc transmitting the key to the third source the key enables access to the content recorded on the disc.

In one embodiment the method further comprising providing license terms associating with accessing the content of the disc to the third source for presenting to a user and receiving input indicating an acceptance of the license terms by the user.

In one embodiment the method further comprising generating before the storing the PMSN and PSN using the key.

In one embodiment the access to the content is limited to a number of accesses a time period or both.

In one embodiment the method further comprising if the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN does not identify the disc transmitting another key to the third source the another key enables access to a portion of the content recorded on the disc.

In an exemplary aspect a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions is provided. The instructions cause a processor to perform the steps of receiving from a first source information comprises a key for accessing content recorded on a disc storing the key a PMSN and a PSN receiving from a second source another PSN the another PSN determining that the PSN and the another PSN is a same code recording data that indicates the disc is authenticated if the PSN and the another PSN is the same code receiving from a third source at least one of the PSN and the PMSN determining that the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN identifies the disc and if the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN identifies the disc transmitting the key to the third source the key enables access to the content recorded on the disc.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium further comprising computer executable instructions for providing license terms associating with accessing the content of the disc to the third source for presenting to a user and receiving input indicating an acceptance of the license terms by the user.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium further comprising computer executable instructions for generating before the storing the PMSN and PSN using the key.

In one embodiment the access to the content is limited to a number of accesses a time period or both.

In one embodiment the computer readable medium further comprising computer executable instructions for if the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN does not identify the disc transmitting another key to the third source the another key enables access to a portion of the content recorded on the disc.

In an exemplary example at least one computing device comprising storage and a processor configured to perform a series of operations is provided. The operations include receiving from a first source information comprises a key for accessing content recorded on a disc storing the key a PMSN and a PSN receiving from a second source another PSN the another PSN determining that the PSN and the another PSN is a same code recording data that indicates the disc is authenticated if the PSN and the another PSN is the same code receiving from a third source at least one of the PSN and the PMSN determining that the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN identifies the disc and if the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN identifies the disc transmitting the key to the third source the key enables access to the content recorded on the disc.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device further performs providing license terms associating with accessing the content of the disc to the third source for presenting to a user and receiving input indicating an acceptance of the license terms by the user.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device further performs generating before the storing the PMSN and PSN using the key.

In one embodiment the access to the content is limited to a number of accesses a time period or both.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device of further performs if the at least one of the PSN and the PMSN does not identify the disc transmitting another key to the third source the another key enables access to a portion of the content recorded on the disc.

In an exemplary aspect a computer implemented method for authorizing a product is provided. The method comprising receiving from a first source an item serial number ISN of a product and an item specific key ISK for the product receiving from a second source a product package serial number PPSN associated with the product and information about the second source storing the received PSN with an authorized indication based on the information about the second source indicating an authorized source receiving from the product the PSN and the ISN determining whether the PSN is the same as the receive PSN with the authorized indication and if the PSN is the same as the receive PSN transmitting the ISK to the product the ISK enables activation of one or more features of the product.

In one embodiment the method further comprising if the PSN is not the same as the receive PSN providing a message to be presented by the product to a user.

In one embodiment the ISK comprises geographical information that enables activation of one or more features of the product based on the geographical information.

In one embodiment the ISK comprises data associated with the second source that enables activation of one or more features of the product based on the second source.

In an exemplary aspect a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions is provided. The instructions cause a processor to perform the following process steps receiving from a first source an item serial number ISN of a product and an item specific key ISK for the product receiving from a second source a product package serial number PPSN associated with the product and information about the second source storing the received PSN with an authorized indication based on the information about the second source indicating an authorized source receiving from the product the PSN and the ISN determining whether the PSN is the same as the receive PSN with the authorized indication and if the PSN is the same as the receive PSN transmitting the ISK to the product the ISK enables activation of one or more features of the product.

In one embodiment the ISK comprises geographical information that enables activation of one or more features of the product based on the geographical information.

In one embodiment the ISK comprises data associated with the second source that enables activation of one or more features of the product based on the second source.

In one embodiment at least one computing device comprising storage and a processor configured to perform a series of operations is provided. The series of operations comprise receiving from a first source an item serial number ISN of a product and an item specific key ISK for the product receiving from a second source a product package serial number PPSN associated with the product and information about the second source storing the received PSN with an authorized indication based on the information about the second source indicating an authorized source receiving from the product the PSN and the ISN determining whether the PSN is the same as the receive PSN with the authorized indication and if the PSN is the same as the receive PSN transmitting the ISK to the product the ISK enables activation of one or more features of the product.

In one embodiment the at least one computing device further comprising if the PSN is not the same as the receive PSN providing a message to be presented by the product to a user.

In one embodiment the ISK comprises geographical information that enables activation of one or more features of the product based on the geographical information.

In one embodiment the ISK comprises data associated with the second source that enables activation of one or more features of the product based on the second source.

Other features and advantages of the present invention should become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

In an embodiment systems and methods are disclosed for managing access to benefits associated with products. For example the products may be electronic products such as content on Blu ray discs a laptop computer and the like. Alternatively the products may be physical products such as soda.

Server s may comprise web servers which host one or more websites or web services. In embodiments in which a website is provided the website may comprise one or more user interfaces including for example webpages generated in Hypertext Markup Language HTML or other language. The server s transmit or serve these user interfaces in response to requests from user system s . In some embodiments these user interfaces may be served in the form of a wizard in which case two or more user interfaces may be served in a sequential manner and one or more of the sequential user interfaces may depend on an interaction of the user or user system with one or more preceding user interfaces. The requests to server s and the responses from server s including the user interfaces may both be communicated through network s which may include the Internet using standard communication protocols e.g. HTTP HTTPS . These user interfaces or web pages may comprise a combination of content and elements such as text images videos animations references e.g. hyperlinks frames inputs e.g. textboxes text areas checkboxes radio buttons drop down menus buttons forms etc. scripts e.g. JavaScript and the like. The server s may also respond to other requests from the user system s . For example a user system may submit data e.g. user data form data etc. to be stored in one or more databases not shown locally and or remotely accessible to the server s . Any suitable database may be utilized including without limitation MySQL Oracle IBM Microsoft SQL Sybase Access and the like including cloud based database instances. Data may be sent to the server s for instance using the well known POST request supported by HTTP. This data as well as other requests may be handled for example by server side web technology such as a servlet executed by the server s .

In embodiments in which a web service is provided the server s may receive requests from user system s and provide responses in eXtensible Markup Language XML and or any other suitable or desired format. In such embodiments the server s may provide an application programming interface API which defines the manner in which user system s may interact with the web service. Thus the user system s which may themselves be servers can define their own user interfaces and rely on the web service to implement the backend processes functionality storage etc. described herein.

Various embodiments advantageously allow for the delivery or provision of one or more rights or other benefits to the consumer without necessarily requiring the consumer to submit personal private or confidential information in order to receive the benefit. At the same time various embodiments may also allow for product localization. That is to say a manufacturer distributor merchant or retailer can assign different sets of benefits to different groupings of the same model or type of product currently being offered for sale. For example a high definition LCD television sold in Cincinnati may include a delivery package offering discounts to local retail chains selling Bengal memorabilia or alternatively the purchase may enable the consumer to access downloadable content related to the Cincinnati Bengals. If the same television was sold in San Diego the package may instead include discounts to Charger memorabilia or downloadable content related to the San Diego Chargers.

Note also that benefits may also be assigned based on vendor rather than or in addition to being predicated upon the geographic area. For example a television sold at Best Buy may include a benefit that would not otherwise be included if the same television were purchased at a different retailer.

As illustrated by point of sale device and user device are connected to authentication node by network connection such as the Internet. It should be noted here that for the purposes of and with respect to subsequent figures the authentication of a constituent portion of an access code is best conceived of as something separate from that triggering a rule which would allow for the delivery or provision of one or more rights or other benefits that are included with a product for sale which might also be conceived as a form of authentication . Authentication of an access code or constituent portion of access code may require searching through a data structure such as a database file array list queue stack tree hash table heap etc. in order to identify the existence of that access code or constituent portion of access code in the data structure. In embodiments which utilize multiple access codes or constituent portions of the same access code the set of rules may be triggered only when each of the multiple access codes or constituent portions of an access code have been successfully authenticated.

When an item is purchased a code reader integrated with or in electrical communication with point of sale device may read a first code that may be externally visible on the packaging an external surface of a product or other visible portion associated with a product. In this case the first code is machine readable and may also be human readable. Alternatively or additionally the first code may be manually input using an input device e.g. a keyboard mouse touch panel or microphone associated with point of sale device . In this case the first code is human readable and may also be machine readable.

In either case the point of sale device receives the first code and may transmit the first code to authentication node in a first authentication request . Point of sale device may be a device associated with an authorized first party such as a merchant or retailer with the means to receive and transmit the first code to authentication node which may comprise or be communicatively coupled to a key registry. For example point of sale device may comprise or be integrated with a counter top barcode reader and have access to the Internet .

Authentication node receives a first authentication request from point of sale device . First authentication request may comprise the first code received by point of sale device . Authentication node may then generate a response which may be transmitted back to point of sale device . Response serves to indicate whether authentication of the first code identifier was successful or unsuccessful. Optionally an acknowledgement number or receipt may be provided to the merchant and or consumer which serves as evidence that the authentication of the first code has been performed successfully.

In an embodiment a second code may also be included with the purchased item. In some embodiments this second code is only visible to a consumer when the package has been opened e.g. unfolded or had its shrink wrap punctured or removed . This second code may be a human readable code that is manually input into a user device by the consumer and subsequently transmitted to authentication node via the Internet . For example the second code may comprise a string of characters to be input into a personal computer with an Internet connection. In other embodiments the code may be a machine readable code requiring an associated scanner imager or other such reading device e.g. a mobile phone executing an application capable of imaging and or translating a QR code .

In embodiments which utilize just the first code the first code may uniquely map to a set of one or more rights or other benefits. In embodiments which utilize two codes the combination of the first code and the second code uniquely maps to a set of one or more rights or other benefits. In such embodiments the first code and or the second code may themselves be unique in addition to the combination of both codes. In addition the first code and second code may both be generated randomly or pseudo randomly in order to prevent a functional relationship between the two codes from being established by an outside party. Also according to some embodiments a newly generated first code may be tested against a list or other data structure of previously generated first codes and discarded in the event that the same code has been previously generated and included in the list.

Returning to a second authentication request may be generated at user device and subsequently transmitted to authentication node . In embodiments which utilize just a first code the second authentication request may comprise the first code. In embodiments which utilize a first code and second code the second authentication request may comprise the second code or both the first code and second code. In some embodiments authentication node may transmit a response to user device indicating whether the first code and or second code has been successfully authenticated. Once the codes from both the first authentication request and second authentication request have been successfully authenticated the rule may then be triggered so as to confer or offer the right or other benefit associated with a product. For example in some embodiments one or more functions associated with media content may be unlocked or offered. For example if the product purchased or otherwise obtained at the merchant is a Blu ray disc then upon authentication the consumer may presented with an option or the ability to playback the content of the disc.

In one example embodiment a consumer may simply obtain the product at a merchant or retailer e.g. without paying any money and then upon authentication of both the first and second authentication requests be presented with one or more purchase options. For example if the product is a Blu ray or DVD disc the purchase options may provide one or more tiers of playback rights with each tier having an associated price. A first tier may enable playback of a trailer of the content e.g. movie stored on the disc for free a second tier may enable playback of the content stored on the disc for a limited number of times e.g. 3 times limited time period e.g. 5 days or according to one or more other restrictions for a price of X and a third tier may enable unlimited playback of the content stored on the disc for a price of Y X. In this manner the consumer can choose which tier to purchase and may be allowed to purchase additional or different tiers at a subsequent time. If an additional tier is subsequently purchased the consumer may be provided a discount based on one or more previously purchased tiers.

In another example embodiment a consumer may purchase the product at a merchant or retailer. This initial purchase may entitle the consumer to certain benefits e.g. limited access such as limited playback . Then upon authentication of both the first and second authentication requests the consumer may be presented with additional benefits or the offer to purchase additional benefits. Returning to the illustration in which the product is a Blu ray or DVD disc the consumer may be presented with the option to purchase additional features e.g. commentary extended cuts unlimited playback etc. .

In embodiments in which the product is digital content e.g. a Blu ray or DVD movie if a consumer purchases benefits upon or subsequent to authentication of both the first and second authentication requests the benefits may be enabled by transmitting a key to a content player. For example the content on a purchased or otherwise obtained medium may be encrypted. Upon authentication or purchase of benefits node may transmit or cause to be transmitted a key necessary to decrypt encrypted content on the medium.

While the point of sale device and the user device are depicted in as being connected to the authentication node via a connection to the Internet it is to be understood that any type of networking medium and or networking protocol may be used in the alternative e.g. cellular networks fiber optic networks cable networks satellite networks wireless networks serial bus networks etc. and further that the network connection between the point of sale device and the authentication node may be a different type of network connection than that between the user device and the authentication node . Additionally any type of network configuration or network topology may be used in accordance with the scope of various embodiments e.g. personal area networks metropolitan area networks wide area networks direct connection networks star networks ring topologies etc. .

Additionally the point of sale device and user device may consist of any type of electronic or computing device. For example user device may include without limitation a personal computer a smart phone a gaming console a Blu ray player a streaming device capable of receiving movies a personal data assistant an e reader or a cable set top box.

A power supply unit may provide a source of power to the various modules disposed within the authentication node . In some embodiments power may be supplied externally by one or more conductive wires for example from a power cable or serial bus cable. In other embodiments a battery may be used as a source of power.

One or more processors are adapted to execute sequences of instructions by loading and storing data to memory. Possible instructions include without limitation instructions for data conversion formatting operations communication instructions and or storage and retrieval operations. Additionally the one or more processors may comprise any type of digital processing devices including for example reduced instruction set computer processors general purpose processors microprocessors digital signal processors gate arrays programmable logic devices reconfigurable compute fabrics array processors and or application specific integrated circuits. The one or more processors may also be contained on a single unitary integrated circuit die or distributed across multiple components.

Authentication node may also comprise any combination of volatile and non volatile memory adapted to enable digital information to be stored retained and subsequently retrieved. This includes RAM DRAM SRAM ROM and or flash memory. These memory modules and may be organized in any number of architectural configurations utilizing for example registers memory cashes data buffers main memory mass storage and or removable media. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises authentication logic and optionally a key registry . Both of these modules may be used for unlocking access to media content secured over a network. During operation pages of memory may be swapped out of non volatile memory and into volatile memory in order to enable the one or more processors to have quicker access to requested data.

The authentication logic could be any combination of software firmware or hardware that enables authentication of constituent portions of a unique code identifier. The authentication logic may include a mapping of a set of rules to each unique identifier whereby successful authentication of each constituent portion of a unique code identifier triggers the set of rules. A means for generating unique codes and for associating such codes with a respective set of rules may also be included within the authentication logic or may be provided within a separate module according to some embodiments.

Key registry may be any data structure e.g. database file array list queue stack tree hash table heap etc. that generates associates and stores constituent portions of each unique code. Alternatively the constituent portions of the code or methods for deriving each code may be stored within separate data structures.

In some embodiments the key registry may be used to provide the constituent portions to a peripheral device for printing or otherwise affixing onto inserts. Duplex printing may then be used to simultaneously or near simultaneously print a first code and its paired second code on opposite sides of the same substrate or material. Linking the codes together in this fashion advantageously mitigates errors caused by inadvertent insertion of mispaired codes within the same product casing.

In some embodiments the key registry itself may contain the listing of rights associated with each code in the registry . More than one right may be associated with each code. For example a DVD bundle may be sold with rights to download all three movies in particular trilogy. Alternatively a special edition video game may feature additional content bundled with the game to be downloaded where a single code is used to unlock access to both the downloadable game as well as the additional content.

Authentication node may also have one or more network interface modules for interfacing over networks associated with the point of sale device and the user device as seen in . As stated above any type of network may be used for these purposes including without limitation cellular networks fiber optic networks cable networks satellite networks wireless networks serial bus networks etc.

At block the system may listen for code authentication requests submitted from either a point of sale device or a user device . A transmission triggering an event or interrupt may be used for this purpose. In other embodiments the authentication node may periodically poll the point of sale device and or the user device .

If a code authentication request is received for example as shown in decision block the constituent portion of the code may then be analyzed at block . In some embodiments a flag or other indicator may be submitted with the code authentication requests indicating that this portion of the code is associated with either a point of sale device or a user device or alternatively that the enclosed code portion represents the first half or second half of the entire code sequence . An error message may be generated if the code portion cannot be properly identified.

Once the code portion has been successfully identified then authentication of the code portion may be attempted at block . This process may involve comparing the transmitted code with a particular sequence contained within a key registry e.g. as shown in or ensuring that the transmitted code is derivable from a particular sequence using known operations. If authentication is successful a flag or variable may be updated so as to indicate that this respective portion of the unique code has been successfully validated.

A response may then be generated at block indicating whether a match i.e. identification of the constituent portion of the unique code had been successful. In some embodiments a network security module may be employed in order to limit the number of authentication attempts generated from a certain domain or IP address.

In some embodiments rules associated with particular identifiers govern the authorization and fulfillment of the benefit right conferred upon successful authentication. For example in one embodiment the rules may authorize access to the content when at least two conditions are met. First when the key registry receives a first unique identifier from an authorized first party which is typically a vendor retailer and second when the key registry receives a second unique identifier from a second party which is typically a consumer after the key registry has been received from the first party.

Returning to at block a test may be performed in order to determine whether all portions of the unique code have been successfully authenticated. In embodiments containing two or more separate constituent portions of the code this may involve checking a series of variables a list or an array for the purposes of determining whether all such portions have been successfully authenticated. A Boolean or other binary value may be set in the event that all portions of the code have been successfully authenticated.

If the each portion of the unique code has still not been authenticated then at block a set of instructions may be transmitted to the device issuing the code authentication request. The authentication node may then resume listening for code authentication requests at block .

Conversely if each portion of the unique code has been successfully authenticated the corresponding set of rules may then be triggered at block . In one embodiment this may involve transmitting an unlock sequence or key to the user device . The user may then input this sequence or key into a program interface in order to access the requested media. In other embodiments a file may be uploaded to the user device which overwrites or adds an additional file to the user device the presence of which enables access to the requested media. In still other embodiments authentication node may initiate a transfer of the requested content from one of its own memory modules or otherwise provide a special instruction to a remote content server not shown for initiating a transfer of the requested content to the user device . The process then ends.

In some embodiments the product insert or packaging may be enclosed or sealed in such a way e.g. destructible shrink wrap seal tape label etc. so as to enable a first party e.g. a retailer or a second party e.g. a consumer to readily ascertain that the product or its packaging has been opened and the codes compromised. For example a substrate attached to inserted in or integrated with a product container or upon the product surface may bear the second identifier on a surface that would not be visible while the package is closed. If the substrate is a peel away label for example the label may be selected such that any attempt at replacing it after peeling it away would be noticeable by a consumer. Alternatively the product casing may have a removable pin or other one way mechanism which enables access to the second identifier but which cannot be replaced once removed. A deformable button or pop out material may also serve as evidence that a product has been tampered with where such mechanisms do not restore to their factory default state after being actuated. Such mechanisms enable the product to be tamper evident such that compromised products can be immediately identified minimizing the risk that they will be purchased by unwitting consumers.

In some embodiments a product or the product s packaging may allow the second identifier to be read by a consumer once the product or package is opened. For example the product or its packaging may have cut outs that allow the second identifier to be seen through them. Alternatively the product or its packaging may be made of a transparent or partially transparent material that allows the second identifier to be viewed through the transparent material. Optionally this material may be treated or modified to reduce glare that might otherwise impede a reader s ability to read the second identifier when formatted as machine readable code e.g. a bar code or a QR code . In still another example the product or its packaging may be unfolded or opened in such a way so as to reveal the second identifier . Such examples will be explored in further detail below with reference to .

The SKU code is typically associated to a group of similar products. In some embodiments the first identifier may be associated with the SKU code and used in the authorization process. A requested benefit right may be associated to the SKU associated with a movie title which in turn is associated with a population of first identifiers the DVDs making up the population defined by the SKU .

For example is a screen capture of the top and bottom of an exemplary Blu ray case containing an insert with a second identifier hidden by a Blu ray disc according to an embodiment. is a screen capture of the top and bottom of the exemplary Blu ray case depicted in showing the second identifier exposed when the Blu ray disc is removed. While the Blu ray disc itself is depicted as shielding the second identifier from view different types of elements may be used to shield the second identifier in alternative embodiments. These elements may include without limitation removable tabs stickers scratch off material sliders switch panels and other similar mechanisms. Such mechanisms may serve as a further impediment to unauthorized access of the restricted content.

As shown in according to some embodiments all or a portion of the second identifier may be disposed within a recess e.g. used for lifting a disc for greater transparency and improved readability. This may increase the reliability of the reads taken by automated readers such as scanners or photographic devices. A human readable code may be positioned in a separate disc recess or behind the transparency such as the alphanumeric string depicted in .

According to some embodiments the first code and the second code may be printed on the same side of the insert. In such cases the insert may be folded or closed in such a way that the unique code is not externally readable until it is unfolded or opened. To prevent a casual criminal from defeating the system a means of showing that the product or its package has been prematurely opened can be incorporated into such embodiments.

To further impede criminals from opening products prior to the sale and theft of access codes it may be advantageous for the second identifier to be covered with an opaque material e.g. latex that can be scratched off by the consumer after the item has been purchased. In some embodiments the second identifier may also be physically accessible e.g. via the cut out to the consumer of the restricted content.

According to some embodiments neither a first party e.g. a retailer nor a first unique code is necessary for accessing the content. For example consider a DVD without the first identifier including external shrink wrap and or spine labels tape . In such a configuration the right to access secure media content is authorized when the key registry receives the code previously associated with the second identifier. This particular code remains protected from misuse theft until the product is sold since open packaging tampered shrink wrap spine labels etc. would discourage retailers from selling or consumers from buying a product that had been tampered with.

In some embodiments additional code identifiers may be used to unlock protected media content. For example instead of relying on only a paired set of codes a third fourth or nth code may be used in the alternative. This may be used for example to track an item of merchandise across multiple levels of a supply chain.

In some embodiments multiple codes from separate items may be required before content is unlocked. Loyalty or frequent buyer programs for example may require a set number of separate purchases before access to designated content is granted. Content may also be unlocked when multiple actors are involved in a group activity e.g. multiparty experiences or multiplayer games .

There are well known ongoing challenges in content businesses to secure their content from theft and to prevent its unauthorized use. This is a continuous battle of cat and mouse between the manufacturers and those seeking unauthorized access. There have been many solutions proposed to these problems. While many mitigate this issue none eliminates the problem and the resulting lost revenue for the content owner.

Also retailers of digital content are subject to high rates of theft. This lowers the effective profitability of the product category for the retailer prompting some retailers to eliminate selling the product category because of this low level of profitability. In addition the rental of digital content is associated with a number of problems. The quality of content that is electronically distributed is limited by the available bandwidth to the consumer. Existing rental solutions for physical media exist but they have costs associated with inventory control and management or in the case of physical mail rental models returns.

What is needed is a system that will control the access to digital content distributed on optical media and its associated rights and ensure that only content that has been purchased at authorized retailers is accessible.

In an embodiment an existing mechanism for digital rights management DRM is linked with retail transactions e.g. sales to ensure that an access key is distributed only when an authorized retail transaction has taken place e.g. the disc has been sold at an authorized retailer .

In disc manufacturing there are known approaches for serializing discs. In a standard approach the Burst Cutting Area BCA or narrow BCA NBCA refers to the circular area near the center of a CD DVD HD DVD or Blu ray disc where a code similar in appearance to a printed barcode can be written for additional information such as ID codes manufacturing information and serial numbers. The BCA can be written during mastering and may be common for all discs from that master or more usually will be written using a YAG laser to cut the BCA into the aluminum reflective layer of the finished disc potentially adding a unique barcode to each manufactured disc.

The data stored in the BCA can generally be from 12 bytes to 188 bytes in steps of 16 bytes. The BCA can be read using the same laser for reading regular data but may require special circuitry to be decoded. The BCA generally cannot be written without using special equipment. Therefore it can be used as a tamper proof means of identifying individual discs. The DIVX format used BCA to uniquely identify every disc. Information for CPRM is stored in the BCA of a DVD RAM or DVD R RW disc. Nintendo optical discs use a BCA mark to prevent the use of copied discs and homebrew games. On Blu ray Discs a Pre recorded Media Serial Number PMSN can be stored in the BCA.

Another form of disc serialization is provided by Postscribed ID . This technology enables the additional inscription of a unique ID onto a CD DVD s signal surface after the stamping process at the disc plant. By using a high power laser diode a new reflective layer material and extremely accurate location control technology Postscribed ID can enable content publishers to identify each disc of an individual title with a code that can be read by disc players.

There have been many approaches used to protect digital content stored on optical discs. For example in the Blu ray system the ROM Mark or BD ROM Mark is a serialization technology designed to guard against mass production piracy or the mass duplication and sale of unauthorized copies of pre recorded Blu ray Discs. Whereas in this context a PMSN may be a logical volume serial number for a disc the ROM mark is the physical instantiation of the logical volume serial number. Only licensed BD ROM manufacturers have access to the equipment that can make these unique ROM Marks thus allowing authentic BD ROM media such as movies and music to be identified. The ROM Mark contains the Volume ID required to decrypt content encrypted using AACS a content encryption scheme.

In embodiments a unique disc serial number DSN and a unique disc encryption key DEK may be used. The DSN can be the PMSN described above or be a unique number generated as an extension of other product identification methods such as the standard Global Trade Identification Number GTIN . The GTIN is a standard that provides a hierarchical structure for uniquely identifying trade products and their manufacturers. Such identifiers are used to look up product information in a database often by inputting the number through a bar code scanner pointed at an actual product which may belong to a retailer manufacturer collector researcher or other entity. The GTIN family of codes can be used uniquely to identify an item as having been manufactured by a particular company the item s membership in a product class or its membership in a particular product category. In addition the code can be used to identify a specific item. If the GTIN is used the resulting DSN can be constructed as a combination of the GTIN code and a unique item level serial number. Using the GTIN provides a number of benefits in supply chain management. By associating DSNs with particular product categories a network operating center NOC e.g. server s or authentication node can ensure that the DSN entered is appropriate for the PSN. The GTIN can also be used to reduce the length of the PSN that the purchaser would need to specify to the NCP.

In an exemplary implementation a unique item level product serial number PSN formatted as an optical code e.g. alphanumeric barcode or QR code is placed on the outside of the product packaging. In addition the DEKs for all DSNs along with their associated DSNs are transmitted to a NOC. There is no requirement for the PSN to be transmitted by the content owner to the NOC.

It should be noted that in some disc protection schemes multiple keys are used to protect the content of the disc e.g. one key per title region portion chapter episode etc. . Thus the DEK may be only one of the keys e.g. a title key or may comprise a subset of the keys that are required e.g. including all of the required keys for the purchased music titles and or video episodes . In other words the DEK may actually be a set of one or more keys that are required to access and decrypt content. There may be more than one DEK because different content may be encrypted using different DEKs or there are multiple DEKs required to access the same content. In either case any necessary keys e.g. DEKs can be provided to the NOC by the manufacturer. In an embodiment it is sufficient that the DEK be required at some point in the access process.

At the point of sale the PSN may be read by the retailer and transmitted to the NOC. At the NOC the PSN is then marked flagged stored or otherwise persistently indicated as having been authorized. After purchase the disc can be inserted in an appropriately configured network connected player NCP e.g. user system s or user device . NCPs have an Internet connection to the NOC.

In one implementation if this is the first time that the NCP has received or seen the DSN e.g. read the DSN from the disc the NCP prompts the consumer for the PSN. The consumer then enters the PSN from the packaging. In another implementation the PSN is scanned by a camera or other optical reader coupled to the playback device. This implementation eliminates the requirement for the consumer to manually enter a code. In either case the NCP transmits both the PSN and DSN to the NOC.

At the NOC the status of the PSN is checked. If it has been received previously from an authorized retailer the DEK or two or more DEKs for that specific disc is returned to the NCP. Using the DEK s the NCP can decrypt and play the content. If the PSN has not been scanned and transmitted by an authorized retailer according to rules specified by the content owner the server could return a message to the NCP that the disc has not been authorized. In this case the DEK would not be returned and the content would remain inaccessible.

The rules specified by the content owner can be wide ranging. For example the rules may include control over temporal access windows for the content e.g. one or 24 hour sessions not before a day date time event etc. . In addition the content owner may want to restrict access of the content to previously registered NCPs. Prior to this interaction there is no requirement for the PSN to have been associated with a DSN. During this interaction at the NOC the PSN is uniquely associated with this DSN. If the PSN is subsequently received by the NOC with another DSN the NOC will detect this and may reject the request or take some other action according to rules specified by the content owner.

Once the disc has been authorized the NCP may store the associated PSN and DSN and bypass the requirement for the purchaser to enter the DSN on subsequent uses. Access by the NCP would be automatic subject to the rules specified by the content owner at the NOC. Depending on the implementation this subsequent access could be controlled by communication between the NCP and the NOC or the processing rules could have been communicated by the NOC when the DEK was first returned by the NOC.

An additional use of embodiments disclosed herein is in the management of conditional access rights e.g. rental or purchase . In this case the rules associated with the DSN and PSN could specify that the content could be accessed for one or more limited periods of time or one or more accesses. The NCP would then allow access consistent with the content owner specified rules.

A further use would be to control access to multiple types of content on a disc. In this example there may be multiple content types that are encrypted with different DEKs on the disc. The rights that are associated with the PSN could be used to control which DEK is provided to the NCP. A consumer s rights could then be further extended and modified at a later time through additional rights purchases made by the holder of the PSN. For example these rights could be extended simply by making additional purchases that are associated with the PSN. At the time that a request for a DEK is made the NOC can decide which key to return based upon the existence of these additional rights. These additional rights may include additional access e.g. rentals the application of previous rentals to the purchase of unrestricted access of the content purchase of unrestricted access to the content access to additional content stored on the disc .

In an embodiment a hybrid disc formatted as a DVD on one side and an Blu ray disc on the other could contain the same DSN or uniquely paired DSNs with one authorized at the retail point of sale e.g. the lower quality DVD side and the other side e.g. the higher quality Blu ray side authorized after the consumer has purchased and potentially viewed the DVD side.

In the event that the content on the disc is not encrypted in a manner that makes use of the DSN disclosed embodiments may still allow for limiting the access to content. The DEK returned to the NCP can be encrypted using a database of encryption keys that are specific to NCPs. With this approach the returned encrypted DEK would be useful for access to content only by that NCP. This would allow for taking advantage of existing schemes for DRM that invalidate NCPs which have been determined to have been compromised.

To further minimize the risks associated with the theft of content and authorized PSNs the described model can be supplemented with the use of paired packaging codes. Because of the nature of the production process it can be difficult for manufacturers to synchronize the specific PSNs with specific discs. Given this problem to facilitate this pairing the process described above can be extended to include the use of interior packaging codes that are paired with the PSN either directly or through an algorithm. This internal code can be used to validate that the PSN used is the PSN associated with this particular package and was not obtained independently without purchasing the product e.g. scanning the code on the package in the store .

Embodiments can also be used for the automatic registration of rights to an account. If a device has been registered previously to an account as in the DRM process used by UltraViolet any rights associated with this disc can be automatically associated with the account with which the NCP has been associated. In an exemplary implementation the NCP can prompt the consumer to indicate whether this NCP is associated with an account to which rights associated with the disc should be registered. If it is e.g. as indicated by the consumer s response to the prompt the rights can be automatically registered.

In an embodiment the content owner is provided with control over access to the content and the ability to limit unauthorized access. In addition retailers can be benefited by selling a product that will be less appealing to thieves and therefore generate a lower level of losses and higher profitability.

At block an insert printer produces inserts for DVD cases such that the first and second codes are printed on opposite sides of each insert in such a way that the second code will be revealed only when the case has been opened. As mentioned above the DVD case may include a transparent or semi transparent layer positioned over the back side of the insert such that the second identifier is visible through the transparent or semi transparent layer.

At block the DVD manufacturer places the inserts into clear plastic sleeves common to the outside of DVD cases. The discs are then inserted into cases the cases are then closed and subsequently shipped to authorized retailers. At block the various retailers then offer these cases for sale.

When one of the DVDs is sold at block the retailer reads and transmits the first code to the key registry. An attempt to authenticate the code is then performed at the authentication node. Optionally a confirmation message may be presented to the retailer indicating successful or unsuccessful authentication of the first code.

At block the consumer that bought the disc removes the shrink wrap and opens the case revealing the second code through the semi transparent plastic of the case. The consumer then reads and transmits this second code to the key registry at block .

Upon successful authentication of the second code at block the content is unlocked. The consumer may then be given access to the media content and the process then ends.

Note that while the previous figures including depict access to content being granted in a particular combination the first code is authenticated followed by the second code in other embodiments other combinations are also possible e.g. the second code followed by the first code . In some embodiments no particular combination of code authorizations is necessary for unlocking requested content.

As stated above it some embodiments in order to avoid mismatching first codes and second codes a printing solution may be employed where the first code and the second code are printed upon the same article e.g. duplex printing and or printed at approximately the same time. In other embodiments however the first code and the second code may be printed in two distinct operations. In such applications the first printed code may be read immediately prior to the printing of the second code in order to ensure that the two codes are properly matched. Likewise in embodiments where codes are printed on two separate articles the first and second codes may be associated at the time one or more of the articles are applied to an item or its packaging.

In some embodiments a single item may include a first code and a second code on one article e.g. a bottle cap or peel back label and a third code on a separate article e.g. a sticker or label affixed to the item.

As depicted in B and in some embodiments a first code and a second code may be incorporated into a bottle cap for example as commonly used for soda or water in several ways.

For example is a block diagram illustrating the top of an exemplary bottle cap bearing a first according to one embodiment. is a block diagram illustrating the underside of bottle cap bearing a second code . As illustrated by this figure the first code and the second code may be printed on an article e.g. a seal inserted inside for example a transparent bottle cap where the first code can be viewed externally through the bottle cap and the second code can be viewed only when the bottle cap is removed from the bottle. In cases where size of the article is a limitation the first code may be of a type that is not readable at the point of sale by conventional code readers. Therefore an externally facing third code may be printed on a separate label that is affixed to the item.

For example is a block diagram illustrating a soda bottle containing a label bearing an exemplary third code according to one embodiment. The third code may be a machine readable code that is printed or affixed to the label as illustrated by the figure. In some embodiments immediately prior to the final packaging step the first codes affixed to the individual items e.g. individual soda bottles are optically read or scanned and associated with the third code printed on the label .

The cap may be made from a transparent or semi transparent material with sufficient clarity such that a first code can be viewed through the top of the cap . The first and second associated codes may be duplex printed on a seal which is inserted into the cap so that the first code is visible when the cap is on the bottle see and the second code is on the inside of the cap and only visible when the cap has been removed. In this case the cap may be manufactured without molding artifacts that might interfere with a clear view of the code through the cap material. In some embodiments where semi transparent material for the cap is used the seal surface with the first code must be in close contact with the cap material to permit sufficient contrast and resolution for reading the code through the material. In some embodiments the first code may be printed on the outer top surface of a semi transparent or opaque cap and the associated second code is printed on the inside of the bottle cap. Similarly the first code will be externally visible while the second code is only visible when the cap is removed.

In some embodiments the seal may be affixed to the rim of the bottle rather than inside the cap . The first codes and second codes may be duplex printed on opposite sides of the seal prior to applying the seal to the bottle. In some embodiments the cap may be sufficiently transparent to allow reading the first code through the cap . The second code becomes available and readable only after the cap and seal are removed by the consumer. Alternatively the first code may be printed on the external surface of the cap and the associated second code may be printed on the top surface of the seal where the cap material is sufficiently opaque to prevent reading the second code through the cap . The first code may be visible and readable at the point of sale while the second code is accessible and readable only after the consumer has removed the cap.

Bottle caps typically have a tamper evident nature such as a plastic ring that breaks off when the cap is unscrewed. This provides evidence to store employees and consumers that the second code i.e. the one used to access a benefit may have been compromised and hence the ability to access the benefit may have been compromised as well. Some bottle caps however do not have a tamper evident feature and rely on a seal on the rim of the bottle separate from the cap . If the seal has been even partially separated from the bottle this serves as evidence that tampering may have occurred. Preferably the first code becomes unreadable if the cap has been loosened or removed i.e. if someone has opened the bottle to view the second code .

In yet another embodiment e.g. a manufacturing environment the second code may be printed using a photochromic or thermochromic ink so that the printed pattern is not visible under ambient conditions. Such ink can only be activated under intense light intensity or specific wavelength or at a high temperature which is generally not encountered in ambient conditions. During manufacturing just before packaging or reading of this label it may be subjected to these conditions so that the print is visible. The print may be read after this exposure before it fades away. One can tune bleach times after the exposure by appropriately selecting materials so that it lasts for a sufficient time to allow for reading. In yet another alternative the inks used are luminescent fluorescent or phosphorescent or change color e.g. as enabled by photochromic and luminescent inks from HW Sands Inc Jupiter Fla. United States and optionally activated by wavelengths not found in ambient environments e.g. UV less than 290 nm .gamma. rays . Once such labels are exposed to these conditions the print can be read. If luminescent inks are used the print may be read in the dark. As discussed earlier these inks may be encapsulated in order to avoid direct contact with food or to touch and or may be printed on the outside of the package to avoid the food contact completely.

In some embodiments the first codes and second codes may be applied to canned beverages e.g. soda energy drinks etc. The first code may be printed on the surface of the can and the second code may be printed on a part of the surface of the can that is completely or partially obscured by an article or feature of the can which is moved or removed by the consumer after the can is purchased thereby revealing i.e. no longer obscuring the second code . A removable feature may alternatively be a label or sticker. The second code may be hidden under a scratch off layer. An example of a moveable feature may comprise a pull tab.

Specifically in the case of a pull tab used to obscure a second code printed on the top of a can the can and or the pull tab may preferably be configured in such a way that they prevent the pull tab from freely rotating thereby preventing the second code from being viewable readable unless the pull tab is lifted and the can opened. The extrusion in the lid of the can used to attach the pull tab may be formed in an oval rectangular or other shape such that a pull tab appropriately configured to fit the extrusion prevents the tab from rotating. The pull tab may be placed into an appropriately configured recess in the top of the cap to prevent it from rotating. The pull tab may be adhered glued tacked or spot welded to the top of the can to prevent it from rotating. Additionally the pull tab may be configured such that it abuts the edge of the top of the can in such a way that it will not allow the pull tab to rotate until it is lifted high enough to clear the lip of the can and thereby open the can or otherwise indicate by its position that it has been moved and the second code revealed.

The first codes and second codes may be complementary or additive in nature. Also the first code may be read while the second code is hidden or unreadable. When the second code is revealed it may be combined with the first code to form a single readable code.

Multi packs of items such as soda or bottled water may utilize a third code which can be associated with the individual items within the pack. Typically the codes for the individual items are not conveniently accessible by a code reader and it would not be convenient to read the first codes of the individual items at the point of sale. To address this case codes from the individual items may be associated with a third code that is applied to the enclosure or packaging of the items contained within. In some embodiments at a point of sale only the third code is read. Through the association with its related first codes the individual items are identified and subsequently their associated second codes can be identified and the benefits authorized.

In order to avoid confusion or uncertainty of the consumer over which code is the correct code to scan the first code may become unreadable invisible or otherwise marked as the wrong code to use for redeeming a benefit. The first code may be covered with a label or sticker. This may be done as a step on the packaging line or subsequent to the packaging process and after the first codes have been read and associated with the third code .

Individual items may also utilize a third code . A first code may be printed on an item or on its label and a second code printed on a removable part of the item such as a bottle cap cork etc. such that the second code is hidden until the removable part is removed. A third code may be printed on the packaging containing the item. The third code is associated with the item s first code at the time the item is packaged. Through the association of the second code to the first code the second code is thereby also associated with the third code . The third code is read at the point of sale and the benefit is subsequently authorized by way of its association with the second code .

At the point of sale and after reading the first code of an individual item or the third code of a packaged individual item it may be desirable to render the first code unreadable in order to avoid confusion or uncertainty of the consumer over which code is the correct code to scan. It is desirable that the first code become unreadable invisible covered with a label or sticker or otherwise altered to indicate that it is the wrong code to use for redeeming a benefit. Means for accomplishing this such as by using chromic materials and additional printing are described in later paragraphs. Technologies discussed earlier may be used to accomplish this.

It may also be desirable to associate second codes i.e. hidden codes directly with third codes printed on a package containing a multitude of items having individual second codes . The second codes may be hidden until the item is opened such as with a bottle cap or the second codes may be obscured by the items packaging. At the point of sale the third code is read and the second codes may be directly associated with the third code so that the benefit may be authorized for each item.

In some embodiments a system may comprise a database server and one or more databases which at a minimum store the associations among the first second and third codes . The codes may be generated and maintained on one or more servers in one or more secure environments by a trusted entity. Code associations pairs and triads may be formed by the generation of random code values or may be algorithmic with one or multiple keys. Codes may be communicated to and from manufacturers retailers and the servers securely via the internet by means known in the art.

In an embodiment code associations are transmitted to a manufacturer of an item or article onto which codes are to be printed e.g. a label or a seal insert for a bottle cap . The first codes and second codes are paired and printed in a manner that ensures a correct pairing on a given article such as can be done using a duplex printing process. In the event that a third code is utilized as with a multi pack the first codes are read as they are assembled into the final package and the third code is printed on the package. The newly associated values of the first codes and third codes are transmitted to the server and stored in the code database. The process can be similar irrespective of whether or not a first code is actually used. For example the second codes may be read from the items prior to being placed inside the package and the third code associated directly with the second codes .

Alternatively a means may be given to the manufacturer to generate code pairs on the fly for instance by generating a third code after reading the first and or second codes from items assembled into a multi pack. These third codes and their associated first codes and or second codes may then be transmitted to the server system and database.

At the point of sale the first codes or third codes may be read by the point of sale reader and transmitted to the database server system. The server system receives and recognizes code data coming from an authorized site and sales transaction. The point of sale system may further if capable render the first codes unreadable. Upon subsequent receipt of the second codes from the consumer the server system may then authorize and provide the benefits.

A third code may be used in other situations. For example a multitude of items each with a first code and a second code may be associated with a single externally visible third code located on an article containing each of the items e.g. upon a product package bag holder or other such container . illustrate some examples.

Note that in the preceding examples the third code may be preprinted or printed at the time the individual items are contained within the package. It should also be noted that while printing may be used to apply codes to various items and articles numerous other methods are possible within the scope disclosed here. These methods include but are not limited to etching engraving and molding processes.

In cases where the consumer may be confused as to whether they should use the first code the second code or the third code in order to access their benefit in some embodiments the first codes may be altered so that they are no longer readable or recognizable after they have been associated with the third code . Various means may be employed for altering such codes and or the package used to contain them and the alteration could take place before or after the items are contained within the package. In some embodiments the alteration not only makes the first codes unreadable but is sufficient to remove the perception that such codes should even be read. In other embodiments the first code may be specifically selected to be of a type that is not accessible or readable by the consumer.

In some applications it may be advantageous for a multitude of second codes to be affixed to separate items associated with a single third code without the use of first codes . In some embodiments the third code is externally visible and configured on a package that contains the individual items and prevents the second codes from being read until opened or removed. For example the second codes may be printed on the surface of cans of soda or beer and associated with a single third code printed on the packaging that holds a six pack of cans. The third code may be used at the point of sale to authorize the second codes which are hidden until the package is removed by the consumer.

Next at block the manufacturer may print the codes on either a surface of the item a package containing the item or on an article that is to be affixed to the item or its packaging. In some embodiments duplex printing may be used to apply the first and second codes simultaneously or near simultaneously in order to minimize errors in matching. The articles may then be affixed to the items at block . At decision block in the event that the items are to be sold individually the process then ends.

On the other hand if the items are sold together for example as bundled in a multi pack a plurality of first codes may be read at block and associated with a third code at block . The third code may then be printed on the packaging or an article to be affixed to the packaging at block and the items assembled into a multi pack at block .

The read code may then be transmitted to a server system at block . In some embodiments the server system may be a server or authentication node e.g. as depicted in and or B . Once the read code has been successfully received the server system may then associate the code with a second code at block . When the consumer sends the second code to the trusted entity at block the trusted entity may then authorize the benefit at block and the process then ends.

In cases where the consumer might be confused as to which code is used to access a benefit i.e. the code on the package or the code on an item contained by the package the third code may be altered so that it is no longer readable after being read at the point of sale.

In an embodiment server s or authentication node may provide a content authorization service CAS which melds the strengths of physical media distribution and online connectivity to provide new categories of media products that benefit studios retailers and consumers. The CAS creates an entirely new way for retailers manufactures and content providers to market and differentiate their entertainment products bridge brick and mortar stores to Internet retailing to reach selected users beyond the point of sale and to capitalize on product centric mobile and social media. For example 

Studios are able to create new retail products based on Blu ray or similar technology that offer a lower price point than traditional sell through but which requires no returns on unsold stock and also allows for distribution of electronic rights such as UltraViolet Rights Tokens with a disc.

Retailers are able to merchandise these products in more ways and use locations that are effective in increasing sales but which were previously precluded due to excessive theft.

Consumers have an opportunity to make a rental style purchase that does not require return of the disc yet offers a higher quality and more interactive experience than Video on Demand VOD . When attached to the disc consumers can conveniently have their electronic rights registered.

The CAS provides to consumers on behalf of manufacturers and retailers a digital benefit based on the individual items they purchase. These digital benefits are extremely flexible and can be conditioned on variables including where when and from which retailer the item is purchased. Thus the disclosed CAS has enormous potential and virtually unlimited opportunity to bridge creative sales and marketing initiatives between physical and online retail operations and the manufacture of the products being sold.

The basic architecture and protocols that define the CAS are shown in . A studio authors the content according to the standard process for creating a Blu ray disc but adds functionality. For example the functionality may comprise a BD Java application included on the Blu ray disc along with the content files. The disc contents are encrypted according to the Advanced Access Content System AACS specification for enhanced content described below. This means that the media encryption keys are securely transmitted to the CAS rather than being included on the disc with the content during replication.

After replication e.g. at replicator the discs are given a unique pre recorded media serial number PMSN which is laser scribed in the Burst Cutting Area BCA and then packaged. The PMSN is used as a Disc Serial Number DSN . Prior to shipping each disc package is assigned a unique product serial number PSN that is located on the external packaging in a position where it is visible to both the retailer scanning system and to the consumer who purchases the disc.

The PMSNs and PSNs available for use in the manufacturing process may be provided to the replicator of the discs by the CAS an operator of the CAS or another entity. The replicator is responsible for transmitting to the CAS server a complete list of each of the disc PMSNs and the package PSNs used in the disc shipments of a specific title. Note that the CAS does not require the pairing of a specific PMSN with the PSN of the corresponding package.

In another instantiation the PMSNs and PSNs may be generated using an encryption key provided to the replicator or packaging provider. In one method the replicator or packaging provider will use this key as an initial seed along with a counter to generate each unique serial number. The counter may be incremented for each serial number generated and then be added as part of the extended serial number. Given the initial seed and the counter the CAS can validate that a serial number was generated by a particular encryption key. These encryption keys can be distinct for each universal product code. In this case there is no requirement to provide PMSNs or PSNs to the CAS in advance. The CAS can validate that it is receiving a valid serial number of either type and only grants rights based on those serial numbers if there has been a retail authorization of the PSN.

Retailer displays the disc for sale and because the disc remains locked and unplayable unless it passes through the point of sale system e.g. point of sale device to be registered as a legitimate purchase the merchandising and display options are much more expansive as compared to standard Blu ray disc sales.

When the purchase is made the cashier may scan the outside label of the disc package to retrieve the PSN. The scanned PSN is then transmitted over network e.g. network s by the point of sale system to CAS e.g. server s or authentication node . This transmission may also comprise additional data including the name of the retailer and the date time and place of purchase.

When the consumer places the disc in a connected Blu ray player e.g. Profile 2.0 or higher the on disc application e.g. BD Java application is loaded from the disc. Note that player may comprise the user device in . Player reads the PMSN from the disc and the consumer may be directed to enter the PSN from the disc packaging via an input device e.g. physical or virtual keyboard remote control mouse or other pointing device etc. . This input of the PSN may be performed through player or through an application executing on another user device such as a mobile application executing on a smart phone.

In addition it is possible to generate an access code that is algorithmically linked to the PSN and printed on the inside of the packaging. In this case the consumer may be prompted for the access code rather than the PSN. CAS can determine that the access code is linked to the appropriate PSN by performing the algorithm on the PSN at the time that it is received from the retailer and saving that in a database. When the access code is returned from the consumer this code is checked rather than the PSN eliminating the requirement for the consumer directly to return the PSN. The algorithm linking the PSN and the access code can be performed at any time after which the CAS has access to the PSN.

One instantiation of an algorithm that can be used in this linkage would be for the printer to request a unique key K.sub.PSN for each new universal product code UPC . At the same time they would request an allocation of a count range D.sub.COUNT to ensure a globally unique output value. Each PSN would be calculated as AES 128E K.sub.PSN.parallel.D.sub.COUNT where AES 128E is the Advanced Encryption Standard AES 128 bit encryption algorithm applied to the concatenation of the unique key and an incremented value within the count range. This output can be truncated to the most significant 39 bits which can be represented in 12 digits and concatenated with the 9 digit D.sub.COUNT. This process is the same as used by AACS to generate unguessable PMSNs. In one instantiation this method is further extended to create a linked access code. The access code would be generated by calculating AES 128E K.sub.PSN PSN and truncating the output to 10 decimal digits. A consumer would be prompted to provide the access code. CAS would validate that this access code can be linked to a PSN that has been sold but not yet been activated. In one instantiation the access code is calculated and stored in a database when the PSN is received from the authorized retailer. This would allow the validation of an access code at the time at which it is supplied by the consumer to be performed as a simple database lookup. If there is a database entry corresponding to the access code it would be authorized. Otherwise it would be rejected by CAS . Clearly other algorithms with similar attributes could be used in different instantiations both for generating PSNs and for linking PSNs with access codes.

Player is directed to transmit the PMSN and or PSN to CAS which checks a database to confirm that the PSN value has been previously received from a retailer thereby indicating that a valid purchase was made. The associated PMSN is stored so that in the future the validated disc and purchase can be recognized and confirmed without the necessity for the consumer to re enter the PSN. Having validated the disc purchase the CAS transmits the details of the rights offer s available to the consumer. This transmission may also comprise retailer branding information or other messaging including retailer specific messaging. Once the consumer selects the desired offer and satisfies any associated conditions e.g. payments or customer information etc. the CAS or other system securely transmits the required encryption keys to player . Player can then decrypt the required keys and use the decrypted keys to unlock the encrypted content on the disc according to the terms of a license. Prior to unlocking the encrypted content the consumer may be required to accept the license for example by indicating his or her understanding and acceptance of the terms of the license using an input device. Such click wrap licenses are well known in the art and will not be described in detail herein.

It should be noted that there is no requirement for player to be previously paired with or authenticated by CAS . The disc can authenticate CAS through the use of a nonce that ensures that CAS is in possession of the appropriate encryption keys. CAS authenticates the disc and purchaser of the disc through the use of the PSN and or access code coupled with the PMSN. The encryption keys are only returned to the player if the PSN is authenticated. The player can only play the content if it has the appropriately encrypted disc. In addition there is no need for CAS to ever be in possession of the unencrypted content.

While many Blu ray discs are currently being sold with associated electronic rights such as UltraViolet viewing rights in the normal brick and mortar retail process the reliable identification of the retailer of record presents a significant challenge.

The disclosed CAS has certain knowledge of the retailer through the network interaction that must take place at the point of sale. If the studio has indicated to the CAS that an electronic right is associated with the sale of the disc title then the CAS is able to act as a proxy for the retailer so as to have the right assigned to the consumer s rights locker with the correct identification of the retailer.

In an embodiment the conditional access titles enabled by CAS are compatible with current Internet connected Blu ray players having Profile 2.0 or greater. Aside from Internet connectivity Profile 2.0 Blu ray players are required to support AACS On Line Enhanced Content features defined in the AACS specification. The conditional access to content encrypted on Blu ray discs provided by CAS may be implemented according to the AACS On Line Enhanced Content specification thereby ensuring the highest degree of player compatibility for CAS enabled discs.

The AACS specification provides for two kinds of content Basic Titles and Enhanced Titles. Normally Blu ray discs are authored as Basic Titles in which case the encrypted title keys are already present on the disc and may be readily processed using the AACS device keys in the player to give immediate access to viewing the title without the need for Internet access. Enhanced Titles differ in as much as they require an online connection and extended functionality in the player before permission is granted by a remote server to decrypt and view an Enhanced Title. CAS content may be authored according to the AACS On Line specification for Enhanced Titles.

The AACS CPS Unit Usage File CUF on the disc denotes which titles require player to obtain external permission or keys before it plays them. The Uniform Resource Locator URL of the remote server that can provide permission to play the title is specified by the BD J application on the disc. In embodiments the remote server is CAS which may comprise server s and or authentication node . Permissions may be either instant or cacheable both of which are stored in player .

Cacheable permissions may be stored in player and used in the future to allow playback of the Enhanced Title without the necessity to reconnect to CAS . Cacheable permissions may be issued with attributes listed in the CUF including without limitation i the period of time that the permission may remain in the cache until it must be deleted ii an after date and or time before which a player may not play the Enhanced Title and or iii a before date and or time after which a player may not play the Enhanced Title. In an embodiment retailer use of CAS may be a straightforward two step process. Retailers may register with CAS and interface with CAS at the point of sale. During registration a retailer may supply the Internet Protocol IP addresses used by its systems e.g. point of sale systems to transmit the PSN scanned at the point of sale to CAS . Alternatively the retailer may exchange cryptographic keys with the CAS ensuring authorized and authenticated connections between the CAS and the retailer s point of sale. To facilitate the presentation of its brand to consumers the retailer can also provide information such as branding information e.g. logo that will be presented to consumers during the activation step e.g. using the consumer s Blu ray player or smartphone application . For example the retailer s brand information and other information may be presented on a user interface provided by CAS through which the consumer inputs the PSN number for authentication.

As indicated above a CAS enabled product may have a unique PSN displayed as a code e.g. alphanumeric code barcode etc. on the product packaging e.g. disc case . To read the PSN the retailer simply defines the SKU as requiring two scans similarly to the process used for gift cards today . The first scan reads the SKU which initiates a notification to the cashier to perform a second scan on the PSN. The second scan reads the PSN which is transmitted to CAS . This transmission allows CAS to know that this product has been sold at the transmitting retail location. As a result the product is authorized for use by the consumer. In addition an association of the product to the retailer or retail location may be stored to facilitate tracking and targeted marketing or other communications by the retailer.

Integration of a retailer s point of sale system or network can be through direct communication with CAS e.g. using web based transactions or through a gift card network that a retailer may already have in place.

Creation of a CAS enabled Blu ray title requires minimal deviation from the well established standard process that takes a digital master file of the title and results in Blu ray packaged media being offered for sale at retail outlets. The audiovisual content of the titles contained in discs may be authored as normal. The titles requiring CAS permission are identified as an AACS title set. All titles in a given title set may be encrypted with the same title key so that a single permission will suffice to allow access to all of the titles in the title set. In an embodiment CAS enabled title sets do not have the title key present on the replicated disc. The title keys for the CAS enabled content are instead sent to CAS . When player inspects the CUF file and identifies the presence of a CAS enabled Enhanced Title and the corresponding CAS URL it follows the process specified for AACS On Line Enabled Content in order to receive permission to access and view the Enhanced Title. The permission may be granted by CAS through CAS transmitting the title key which may be encrypted and which is otherwise unavailable on the disc to player .

After replication each CAS enabled disc can be inscribed with a unique PMSN in the BCA of the disc. In addition the disc packaging process may include a robust imprint of the PSN on the external packaging. The PSN may be printed in human readable form machine readable form both human and machine readable forms or in one form which is both human and machine readable. As discussed above the replicator may transmit complete and accurate lists of all PMSNs and PSNs associated with a specific title key associated with the CAS enabled title to CAS before the discs are made available to retail. In some embodiments there may be a third code printed on part of the packaging that is not accessible prior to purchase without damage to the packaging paired with the PSN an Access Code that has been or reliably can be linked to the PSN. In the discussion below where the consumer is prompted for the PSN the consumer optionally can be requested to provide either of these codes depending on the levels of security required by the system.

CAS may utilize secure mechanisms for storing transferring and accessing data. At the data element level high value data may always be stored and transmitted in an encrypted form and over secure channels. Replicator may encrypt the title key file for a CAS enabled title and transmit this file over a secure channel to CAS . CAS then stores the encrypted title key file. Player may transmit an authorization request to CAS comprising a volume key title identifier and a nonce generated by the AACS secure layer. A nonce is an arbitrary number used only once in cryptographic communication. In an embodiment when the authorization request is received by CAS the encrypted title key can be retrieved e.g. based on the title identifier and passed to a hardware security module HSM of CAS along with the volume key title identifier and nonce. The HSM may decrypt the encrypted title key using an internally stored CAS private key. The title key may then be re encrypted using the volume key title identifier and the nonce. The encrypted title key is then transmitted by CAS to player where it can be processed and used to decrypt and play the title. This process protects the title key both during storage on CAS as well as in transit between CAS replicator and player . In addition all access to servers of CAS data and keys may be controlled using multi factor authentication.

When content owner wishes to distribute an optical media product that is CAS enabled it may engage in the process illustrated in . The process begins in process step in which the content owner has discs with DSNs manufactured. The content on each disc can be encrypted with a DEK.

In process step the manufacturer constructs packaging that has been identified with PSNs. The discs are packaged with the uniquely labeled packaging and shipped to retailer in step . In addition in step content owner specifies to NOC any additional rules associated with the provisioning of access to the content and the process completes.

If the PSN was not found in NCP s local database NCP prompts the purchaser for the PSN in process step . The provided PSN along with the previously read DSN are transmitted to NOC . NCP receives the response to the request from NOC in process step . The process then proceeds to process step in which NCP checks whether it received a positive response from NOC . If a positive response is received NCP stores the DSN DEK and PSN in its local database for subsequent access and the process proceeds to process step in which NCP plays the content to complete the process.

If the response from NOC to the request in process step was negative the process proceeds to step in which NCP provides a message to the purchaser that the disc has not been authorized and the process completes.

If in step it is determined that the requestor is a retailer NOC receives the PSN from retailer and provides a receipt acknowledgement to retailer in process step . The process then completes.

If in step it is determined that the requestor is NCP the process proceeds to process step in which a PSN and DSN are received from NCP . The process then proceeds to process step in which NOC determines whether the received PSN is authorized. NOC makes this determination by applying the rules specified by content owner in process step . If the PSN is authorized NOC proceeds to transmit the authorized DEK to the NCP in process step . This DEK may be different for different PSNs based upon the rights authorized by content owner . The process then proceeds to step in which the PSN DSN relationship is stored in a database at NOC and the process completes.

If in process step it is determined that the PSN is not authorized the process proceeds to process step in which NOC sends a response to NCP indicating that the PSN was not authorized and the process completes.

In an embodiment a method is provided for authorizing and registering rights and other benefits associated with purchased electronic products. These benefits can range from basic operation of the products to access to specific features that have been identified by the product manufacturer as being associated with conditions of the product s sale. These conditions can include the product retailer and the retailer s geographic location.

Many products are subject to high rates of theft. This theft lowers the effective profitability of the sale of the product for the retailer. To mitigate this problem retailers typically take actions that can range from restricting access to the products by customers to in severe cases ceasing the distribution of the high theft product category. There have been solutions proposed to these problems. While many may mitigate this issue none eliminate the problem or the resulting lost revenue for the manufacturers and retailers. In particular existing theft prevention systems do not prevent the use of stolen products.

In addition to preventing theft manufacturers would like to be able to better differentiate their products that are sold at different retail locations. Potential purchasers with different retailers or at different geographic locations may be motivated to purchase by different benefit bundles. Today location or retailer specific promotions entail custom packaging to differentiate the product offering or take the form of simple rebate processes.

What is needed is a system that will control the access to product features and their associated rights or benefits and ensure that only products sold at authorized retailers provide the expected benefits.

In an embodiment retail transactions are linked to electronic products to ensure that access to benefits associated with the products is provided only when an authorized retail transaction has taken place e.g. the specific product has been sold at an authorized retailer .

The electronic product may have the ability to interact with the product consumer or purchaser through some mechanism. These communication mechanisms can include an integrated display and interaction mechanism provided by the product e.g. a TV display and remote control or a microwave display or an internal web server that communicates with a local computing device over a local network. The electronic product may also have the ability to store a limited amount of data in long term memory e.g. flash memory .

In the context of this embodiment these electronic products can either be directly network connected devices NCDs or non network connected devices NNCDs . NCDs can directly communicate over the Internet whereas NNCDs require communication to the Internet through the purchaser using a computing device accessible by the purchaser such as a personal computer or smart phone.

Each electronic product may be provided by the manufacturer with unique item serial numbers ISNs product package serial numbers PPSNs and item specific secret keys ISKs . The ISNs are stored internally in the product and are accessible during its operation. The PPSNs are printed on the product packaging in such a manner that they are accessible by the retailer at the point of sale. The ISK or an associated cryptographic representation of an ISK may be stored internally in the product. The presence of this key is used to determine access to the controlled benefits. Each ISN can have a unique ISK.

In an exemplary implementation a unique item level product packaging serial number PPSN formatted as an optical code e.g. alphanumeric barcode or QR code may be placed on the outside of the product packaging. In addition the ISKs along with their associated ISNs can be transmitted to a network operating center NOC by the product manufacturer. The manufacturer can also specify rules that apply to the benefits to be accessed via the NOC. These rules can be based on the retailer or the location of the point of sale. For example a particular product feature may only be available to purchasers of the product in a particular geographic region or for purchases made at a particular retailer. These features may vary by time or date of sale as well. The manufacturer and or retailer may dynamically control the specific rights and the rules with respect to their provisioning. While it is an option there is no requirement for the PPSN to be transmitted by the product manufacturer to the NOC. For purposes of validation it may be beneficial for the PPSN to be transmitted to the NOC at some point during product distribution.

At the point of sale the PPSN may be read by the retailer and transmitted to the NOC. At the NOC the PPSN may then be marked as having been authorized. After purchase the NCD is connected to the Internet. The NCD then determines whether it has received a PPSN from the purchaser. If it has not it may prompt the purchaser for the PPSN. The purchaser may then supply the PPSN from the packaging to the NCD using a preferred communication path. In addition to those communication options outlined above in one implementation the PPSN is scanned by a camera or other device coupled to the NCD. This implementation eliminates the requirement for the consumer to manually enter a code.

Once captured the NCD transmits the PPSN and the ISN to the NOC. At the NOC the status of the PPSN may be checked. If it has been received previously from an authorized retailer the ISK for that specific item is returned to the NCD. If the PPSN has not been scanned and transmitted by an authorized retailer the NOC can return a message to the NCD indicating that the item has not been authorized. In this case ISK would not be returned and the protected benefits would remain inaccessible.

The key stored in the device by the manufacturer may be compared to the ISK provided by the NOC. If it matches the product will enable the specified features and update its memory to indicate that it has been authorized. Alternatively the NCD can be equipped with cryptographic capabilities and the ISK can be stored as an encrypted field. The code returned from the NOC can be decrypted by the device to yield the ISK stored in the product by the manufacturer. In an exemplary implementation this cryptographic solution is enabled using a public key infrastructure where each NCD uses encryption keys that are specific to it or its product category. That is a code returned from the NOC will be transformed into a different token for each device and mapped appropriately to the ISK stored on the device. With this approach the ISK required to enable the device is not transmitted over the network.

Prior to this interaction there is no requirement for the PPSN to have been associated with an ISN. During this interaction at the NOC the PPSN is uniquely associated with this ISN. If the PPSN is subsequently received by the NOC with another ISN the NOC will detect this and according to the rules specified by the product manufacturer will reject the request.

Once the NCD receives a valid ISK the NCD may store the ISK and bypass the requirement for the purchaser to enter the PPSN on subsequent uses. In this case benefit access by the NCD may be automatic subject to the rules specified by the product manufacturer at the NOC. Depending on the implementation this subsequent use could be controlled by communication between the NCD and the NOC or by processing rules that have been communicated by the NOC when the ISK was first returned to the NCD.

In another implementation if the product is an NNCD rather than an NCD then on powering up or upon request by the purchaser the NNCD can communicate its ISN to the purchaser using its preferred communication mechanism. The purchaser can then provide the PPSN and the ISN to the NOC. If the PPSN is authorized then the NOC will provide the ISK to the purchaser. The purchaser can then provide the ISK to the NNCD using its preferred communication mechanism. The NNCD then processes in the same manner as the NCD authorizing benefit access if it receives the appropriate ISK.

In some cases the product manufacturer may desire to associate specific ISNs with PPSNs. This association may be difficult because the product packaging may be created at different times and by different service providers than the product itself. In one embodiment this mapping is enabled by packaging RFID enabled cards on which has been encoded the ISN of the product. These cards can then subsequently be read at a convenient point in the supply chain after the product is packaged. At the same time the packaging may be scanned. The ISN and PPSN can then be associated for use in later processing.

By providing a secure method for consumers to identify themselves as the purchasers of the product through supplying the ISN on the RFID enabled card along with the PPSN this approach can also be used to enable other features and capabilities associated with the product. Certain embodiments can also be used for the registration of rights to an account. For example the combination of PPSN and ISN can be used as a set of rights that can be associated with an account. In one implementation the purchaser can access the NOC using a web service. The combination of PPSN and ISN can be used as credentials for accessing other rights associated with the product purchase. For example if the purchaser associates this product purchase with an account at the NOC a warranty registration can be automatically performed on his or her behalf.

Embodiments may also provide the manufacturer control over the access to the product benefits and limits unauthorized access. In addition it provides benefits to retailers who can now sell a product that will be less appealing to thieves and therefore generate a lower level of losses and higher product profitability.

When product manufacturer wishes to distribute a protected product it may engage in the process illustrated in . This process begins in process step in which the manufacturer builds products that have ISNs.

In process step the manufacturer constructs packaging that has been labeled with PPSNs. The NCDs are packaged with the uniquely labeled packaging and shipped to retailer in step . In addition in step product manufacturer specifies to NOC any additional rules associated with the provisioning of access to the product benefits and the process completes.

If the PPSN was not found in NCD s local database NCD may prompt the purchaser for the PPSN in process step . The provided PPSN along with the previously read ISN are transmitted to NOC . NCD receives the response to the request from the NOC in process step . The process then proceeds to process step in which NCD checks whether it received a positive response from NOC . If a positive response is received NCD stores the ISN ISK and PPSN in its local database for subsequent access and the process proceeds to process step in which authorized capabilities are enabled and the process completes. If the response from NOC to the request in process step was negative the process proceeds to step and the NOC provides a message to the NCD indicating that the NCD has not been authorized and the process completes.

If it is determined in step that the requestor is a retailer NOC receives the PPSN from retailer and optionally transmits a receipt acknowledgement to retailer in process step . The process then completes.

If it is determined in process step that the requestor is NCD the process proceeds to process step in which NOC receives the PPSN and ISN from NCP . The process then proceeds to process step in which NOC determines whether this PPSN is authorized. It may make this determination by applying the rules specified by product manufacturer in process step . If the PPSN is authorized the process proceeds to transmit the authorized ISK to NCP in process step . This ISK may be different for different PPSNs based upon the rights authorized by product manufacturer . The process then proceeds to step in which the PPSN ISN relationship is stored in a database at NOC and the process completes.

If it is determined in step that the requestor is Purchaser the process proceeds to step in which NOC receives the PPSN and ISN from Purchaser . The process then proceeds to process step in which NOC determines whether this PPSN is authorized. It may make this determination by applying the rules specified by product manufacturer in process step . If the PPSN is authorized the process proceeds to transmit the authorized ISK in process step . This ISK may be different for different PPSNs based upon the rights authorized by the content owner. The process then proceeds to step in which the PPSN ISN relationship is stored in a database at NOC and the process completes. If it is determined in process step that the PPSN is not authorized the process proceeds to process step in which NOC sends a response to NCD indicating that the PPSN was not authorized and the process completes.

If the PPSN was not found in NNCD s local database NNCD provides the ISN to the purchaser in process step . The provided ISN along with the PPSN known to the purchaser are transmitted to NOC . This Internet connection to NOC is enabled by an Internet connected computing device such as a PC or smart phone. The purchaser receives the response to his request from NOC in process step . The process then proceeds to process step in which purchaser determines whether he or she received a positive response to his or her request from NOC . If a positive response is received purchaser provides the ISK to NNCD in process step . NNCD stores the ISK and PPSN in its local database for subsequent access. The process then proceeds to process step in which the authorized capabilities are enabled and the process completes.

If the response from NOC to the request in process step was negative the process proceeds to step and NOC provides a message to the NNCD that the product has not been authorized and process the process completes.

In an embodiment benefits available for a product may change over time. For example if the product is a Blu ray disc a consumer may be offered the ability to purchase or otherwise obtain access to additional content on the disc or downloaded or streamed from a remote source.

In an embodiment the disclosed systems and methods advantageously allow a retailer to maintain a relationship with consumers that have purchased a product at the retailer even after the purchase has been consummated. This relationship may be maintained through the consumer s association with the purchased product. For example as discussed elsewhere herein the first and second codes may be persistently stored in memory which is accessible by server s . In addition when the first code is first transmitted to the server s by a point of sale system the point of sale system may also transmit an identifier of the retailer or retail location which may also be persistently stored at server s in such a way as to be associated with the first and second codes. Thus retailers or individual retail locations may interact with consumers who have purchased products at the retailers using server s . These interactions may be product specific and or region specific and may comprise offers advertisements or other communications. This may benefit both content providers product manufacturers and retailers since retailers have a greater incentive to promote products from the content providers product manufacturers since the retailer can acquire a persistent consumer relationship through the sale of such content products.

In an embodiment prior to authentication a consumer may be required to agree to a license e.g. end user license agreement for example using a click wrap interface integrated into a user interface. In some embodiments the consumer may only be required to agree to the license once e.g. when a user device transmits the first code and second code to server s for authentication. Alternatively the consumer may be required to agree to the license on a per device basis. For instance if the product is a Blu ray disc when a network connected player attempts to acquire the title key in order to play the content on the Blu ray disc it may be required to provide an identifier for itself e.g. device identifier IP address combination of device identifier and IP address etc. . This identifier may be unique semi unique or non unique and may be stored in memory accessible to server s such that it is associated with a particular product e.g. via an association with the first and or second codes transmitted during the authentication process . Thereafter if server s detect that a new player is being used to play the previously authenticated content the user of the player which may be the initial consumer or a subsequent purchaser may be required to again agree to the license terms using a click wrap interface.

In an embodiment server s or authentication node can act as a clearinghouse for all transactions between consumers content providers product manufactures and or retailers. For example server s may provide payment processing such that consumers can purchase benefits through server s . In addition consumers may receive title keys through server s receive content through server s receive communications from retailers or content providers through server s etc.

The license aspect is an important aspect that will be described in more detail here. It is well known that when a user attempts to use certain products or access certain content to have click through type of license be presented and to require that the user accept the terms of the license before being allowed to use the product access the content etc. In the system and methods described herein however agreement with the terms of the license is more directly or more properly tied to a key or other authentication mechanism that then allows the user to use the product access the content access certain rights etc. Thus when certain codes are provided or options for access selected a click through license can be presented to the user. Only once the user has agreed to the terms will the user or the user s device be provided the key or authentication mechanism needed to access e.g. the digital rights associated with the user s purchase.

The license can include such limitation as a limitation on allowing someone else access to the e.g. digital rights or at least limit the user s ability to provide such rights for economic gain. The license can also include limitations on the user s ability to copy reverse engineer or otherwise redistribute the e.g. digital rights. But again it is the user s access to the key or activation mechanism that is dependent on the user accepting the license terms.

As discussed above if the user attempts to access the digital rights via a new device or machine i.e. a different computer or disc player the license can be presented again or provisions can be made to allow the user to access the digital rights without the need to again accept the license terms. In some instances the user may only be allowed to access the digital rights on a certain device or machine.

The system preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor . Examples of processors which may be used with system include without limitation the Pentium processor Core i7 processor and Xeon processor all of which are available from Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif.

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

System preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor such as one or more of the functions and or modules discussed above. It should be understood that programs stored in the memory and executed by processor may be written and or compiled according to any suitable language including without limitation C C Java JavaScript Pearl Visual Basic .NET and the like. The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include an internal memory and or a removable medium for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive other optical drive a flash memory drive etc. The removable medium is read from and or written to in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD SD card etc.

The removable storage medium may be a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data e.g. for implementing at least a portion of the subject matter described herein . The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the system for execution by the processor .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage media and communication interface which allow software and data to be transferred from an external medium to the system .

System may include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a built in network adapter network interface card NIC Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter Universal Serial Bus USB network adapter modem a network interface card NIC a wireless data card a communications port an infrared interface an IEEE 1394 fire wire or any other device capable of interfacing system with a network or another computing device.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . In one embodiment the communication channel may be a wired or wireless network or any variety of other communication links. Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions such as those described herein.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any non transitory computer readable storage media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including internal memory removable medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These non transitory computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into the system by way of removable medium I O interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the system in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

In an embodiment I O interface provides an interface between one or more components of system and one or more input and or output devices. Example input devices include without limitation keyboards touch screens or other touch sensitive devices biometric sensing devices computer mice trackballs pen based pointing devices and the like. Examples of output devices include without limitation cathode ray tubes CRTs plasma displays light emitting diode LED displays liquid crystal displays LCDs printers vacuum florescent displays VFDs surface conduction electron emitter displays SEDs field emission displays FEDs and the like.

The system also includes optional wireless communication components that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and over a data network. The wireless communication components may comprise an antenna system a radio system a baseband system or any combination thereof. In the system radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communicate over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to a speaker. The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from a microphone. These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the processor . The central processing unit has access to data storage areas and . The central processing unit is preferably configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the memory or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or in secondary memory or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions such as those described herein. For example data storage areas may include various software modules not shown .

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules functions and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

Any of the software components described herein may take a variety of forms. For example a component may be a stand alone software package or it may be a software package incorporated as a tool in a larger software product. It may be downloadable from a network for example a website as a stand alone product or as an add in package for installation in an existing software application. It may also be available as a client server software application as a web enabled software application and or as a mobile application.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly not limited.

Physical storage devices provide a useful mechanism for the distribution of content. Today most content distributed on physical storage devices do not have their playback conditioned upon collections of controllable and changing attributes. For example content bought on a Blu ray disc typically is playable immediately in any valid device. While the content is secured using digital rights management methods these methods are oriented more towards the prevention of piracy of a given title and not the granular management of the purchaser s rights to play that title.

This inability conditionally to control access to content limits the ability of content providers to create new business models and the range of configurations for their product offerings. These constraints take a variety of forms. For example content providers have distribution relationships with cable or satellite TV providers that determine when and how content can be distributed through other channels. Without a flexible mechanism to conditionally play content on physical media based upon date and time or the existence or not of these relationships content providers are limited in the manner in which they can exploit the physical distribution of media. In other cases the content provider may want to customize content based upon the distribution channel used and for example provide unique content to customers of a given distributor.

In addition to conditionally satisfying these distribution constraints content owners want to condition content access on the existence of a retail purchase. The cited applications outline methods for linking serialized content to serialized packaging to uniquely condition access to content. However there are cases in which the content is not serialized or the required supply chain transaction is not in place for capturing the serialized packaging prior to acquisition by the purchaser. Also there may be situations in which the content is not serialized and some form of control is desired. In these cases the existence of a verifiable sales event combined with other attributes such as date and time may be sufficient to condition access to content.

What is needed is a way to authorize the playback of content based upon these account or sales relationships including the existence of a direct account relationship in good standing the existence of a 3rd party account relationship in good standing and the existence of a sales receipt retail account linkage other documentation that can be associated with a specific disc or disc title and be used to condition access to content. These can be used independently or used in combination with the current date and other attributes deemed critical for this access.

The related applications referenced above claim a series of mechanisms for authorizing content and other rights based upon the existence of a transaction within the disc supply chain that can be uniquely linked to an authorized physical disc. In this application we make additional claims for authorizing content on both serialized and un serialized discs based upon mechanisms that make use of these account relationships and additional methods for the verification of sales events.

With mechanisms that link these attributes to content playback valuable new business models can be constructed. For example it is possible to distribute a disc with content that is playable only if there is an existing cable or satellite provider account in existence and in good standing. In addition for serialized content discs with an entire season of a TV series can be sold prior to the broadcast date and the playback of individual episodes can be conditioned on that episode having been previously broadcast. Alternatively a disc with the content of an entire season of a TV series can be sold. Access to a limited set of these episodes can be included in the purchase price with access to additional episodes being purchased on demand at a later date. This subsequent purchase can also be conditioned by the existence of an account relationship or by date and time. In addition the right to play subsequent episodes can be conditioned by broadcast date alone. By flexibly positioning the playback of content based upon a collection of attributes a variety of products can be packaged from the same content allowing content providers to tailor their products more effectively to specific markets.

Accordingly systems and methods are disclosed for flexibly controlling access to content conditioned by these sets of relationships. In an embodiment as claimed in the cited applications media products such as a Blu ray disc are uniquely identified by a code incorporated into an internal region or insert of the product itself e.g. electronically inscribed in a machine readable region of the product such as Burst Cutting Area of a Blu ray disc . These codes are associated with stock keeping units SKUs or universal product codes UPCs or any other code that uniquely identifies this product to a retailer. When a product is purchased the SKU of the purchased product is associated with a purchase order or receipt. This purchase order or receipt can be further associated with the user account or the payment instrument that was used to make the purchase. All of these processes can be configured to support both physical and Internet sale of physical media.

In other embodiments the disc may not be uniquely serialized. In this case a sales transaction can be associated with the stock keeping unit identifier SKU for the disc product and this SKU can be associated with a specific content title. Authorization to play this title can be provisioned to a single Blu ray player. In addition if a verifiable order is associated with a verifiable account access to this content can be allowed over a set of uniquely identified Blu ray players that are associated with an account. While this does not provide as granular control over access to a specific disc it allows for incremental control over content on un serialized discs beyond that provided today.

When the purchaser attempts to play the disc in a connected Blu ray player the player can send the code to a network accessible authorization service. At the server this unique serial number is associated with the SKU for the disc. The service can then determine whether the Blu ray player is registered to a specific account. If the device is registered to an account by communication with the distributor the service determines whether there exists an order associated with this account that includes a SKU for the requested title. If such an order exists the server allows the content to be played. If an order does not exist the server prompts for more information from the user to discover other possible paths for the acquisition of the movie such as gifting. In addition if the player account relationship does not exist the service can prompt the user through the player for an account that can be linked.

Gifting can be supported in this model through a variety of mechanisms. The purchaser of the movie can indicate at the time of ordering that the purchase is a gift. If the recipient also has an account with the merchant the purchaser can directly indicate the recipient. In that case the initial processing can proceed as in the above description. Alternatively the purchaser can provide an email account for the recipient. The merchant can send a unique identifier to the email account that can be used to identify the purchase and authenticate the recipient. In this case when the disc is played upon discovering that further authentication is required the service will prompt for the unique code from the recipient. Alternatively the unique code can be provided to the purchaser and the purchaser can transmit the unique code to the recipient through other mechanisms. In the case that the disc is not uniquely identified the number of units for which rights have been provided can be decremented. For example in the event that two discs of the same SKU were purchased by a particular account holder the rights provided can be decremented. Once the rights have been exhausted further requests can be denied.

It should be noted that without the unique identification of the disc e.g. a disc serial number the disc usage will be constrained to certain players or will require additional authentication. For example a disc that is played in a player that is not associated with an account or is associated with an account that has not been associated with these rights will be prompted for information to establish those associations. For example if a purchaser of the disc attempts to play the disc at someone else s home he could be prompted to login to his account to establish that association.

In all cases the rights associated with the purchase can be limited. Once the rights have been associated with a title presentation of an additional disc for the same title can be denied.

In an embodiment systems and methods are disclosed for managing access to benefits associated with media products.

Server s may comprise web servers which host one or more websites or web services. In embodiments in which a website is provided the website may comprise one or more user interfaces including for example webpages generated in Hypertext Markup Language HTML or other language. The server s transmit or serve these user interfaces in response to requests from user system s . In some embodiments these user interfaces may be served in the form of a wizard in which case two or more user interfaces may be served in a sequential manner and one or more of the sequential user interfaces may depend on an interaction of the user or user system with one or more preceding user interfaces. The requests to server s and the responses from server s including the user interfaces may both be communicated through network s which may include the Internet using standard communication protocols e.g. HTTP HTTPS . These user interfaces or web pages may comprise a combination of content and elements such as text images videos animations references e.g. hyperlinks frames inputs e.g. textboxes text areas checkboxes radio buttons drop down menus buttons forms etc. scripts e.g. JavaScript and the like. The server s may also respond to other requests from the user system s . For example a user system may submit data e.g. user data form data etc. to be stored in one or more databases not shown locally and or remotely accessible to the server s . Any suitable database may be utilized including without limitation MySQL Oracle IBM Microsoft SQL Sybase Access and the like including cloud based database instances. Data may be sent to the server s for instance using the well known POST request supported by HTTP. This data as well as other requests may be handled for example by server side web technology such as a servlet executed by the server s .

In embodiments in which a web service is provided the server s may receive requests from user system s and provide responses in eXtensible Markup Language XML and or any other suitable or desired format. In such embodiments the server s may provide an application programming interface API which defines the manner in which user system s may interact with the web service. Thus the user system s which may themselves be servers can define their own user interfaces and rely on the web service to implement the backend processes functionality storage etc. described herein.

NAS authorizes the use of content to be played in NCP . It conditions this authorization on a number of varying attributes. In an exemplary process these attributes may include the existence of an account relationship in good standing between Purchaser and one or more of Account Holding Institution Content Owner and NAS . In addition this authorization can be conditioned on other attributes that are specific to the content itself.

A player many be uniquely identified through a number of mechanisms known to those skilled in the art. Networked devices each have a media access control address MAC address . A MAC address is a unique identifier assigned to network interfaces for communications on the physical network segment. MAC addresses are used as a network address for most IEEE 802 network technologies including Ethernet. MAC addresses are most often assigned by the manufacturer of a network interface controller NIC and are stored in its hardware such as the card s read only memory or some other firmware mechanism. If assigned by the manufacturer a MAC address usually encodes the manufacturer s registered identification number and may be referred to as the burned in address. Alternatively NAS can generate a unique value which may function as a certificate for the player. This certificate may be downloaded to NCP and transmitted by NCP as part of its subsequent transactions with NAS . In addition to serving as a unique identifier this certificate may also be used to support an additional layer of encryption for communication between NCP and NAS .

However constructed process then continues to process step where this unique identifier is associated by NAS with Purchaser s account. In this way subsequent transactions from NCP can be conditioned based on then current information concerning this account. Process then ends.

If in process step the account information provided was not authenticated by the account holding institution process proceeds to process step . In process step the purchaser is notified that the account information provided is incorrect and process terminates.

At block if the result of process is positive process proceeds to process step where it is determined whether there are additional authorization conditions required prior to authorization access to the content. For example a content owner may wish to restrict the playing of content to a time later than the time at which the content was originally broadcast. These authorization conditions can include date and time and in an exemplary process these conditions can also include other attributes of the content such as whether this content previously has been broadcast. NAS may receive this information from Content Owner AHI or may determine it through other network accessible data sources.

Process then proceeds to process step where it is determined whether the required conditions have been met. In process step NAS applies rules from its database to the gathered information. If the required conditions have been met process proceeds to process step where the content is enabled for access. Process then completes at .

If in process step the purchase for this content had not yet been authorized process continues to Purchase Authorization Process . Following process process proceeds to process step where it is determined whether the purchase was authorized. If the purchase was authorized process process to process step . If the purchase was not authorized process proceeds to process step .

If in process step it is determined that sufficient conditions were not met process proceeds to process step where the purchaser is notified of this condition. Process then proceeds to process step and completes.

