---

title: Vehicle use and performance restrictions based on detected users
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for vehicle use and performance restrictions based on detected users. A user may check-in to a vehicle so that the vehicle identifies the user, such as through providing identification to the vehicle using biometrics, logins, or other information. Using the identification, the vehicle may determine parameters and restrictions on use of the vehicle by the user. Parameters may include information about the user, such as age, health, or other statistic stored with the identification for the user, and may be utilized to determine restrictions on use of the vehicle by the user, such as a speed of the vehicle and passengers allowed in the vehicle. Restrictions may also be set for the user, including speeds of travel, routes of travel, and usage of media players in the vehicle. The usage of the vehicle may be monitored and enforced using the restrictions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09586596&OS=09586596&RS=09586596
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09586596
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141230
---
The present application generally relates to vehicle use and performance restrictions based on detected users and more specifically to detecting a user within and or utilizing a vehicle in order to determine communicate place authorize and or remove restrictions on the vehicle s use and performance while under the control of the user.

An owner or operator of a vehicle may offer their vehicle for use by another party such as a parent providing use of their vehicle to their child or a friend providing their vehicle to another friend. However the user who maintains control of their vehicle may wish to enforce certain restrictions on use of the vehicle. For example a recently licensed driver may be prevented from driving passengers until of a certain age or after a certain time period of driving. In other embodiments the vehicle may include onboard systems that the owner may wish to restrict such as automatic toll payments and satellite radio or other media requiring payment. In order to enforce these uses of the vehicle the user exerting control over the vehicle may inform the other operating user of restrictions on use of the vehicle. However this may not prevent the operating user from using the vehicle in unauthorized manners. Moreover the user exerting control over the vehicle may not have methods to monitor usage of the vehicle or may only be informed of unauthorized usage substantially after the time of the unauthorized usage.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods that provide vehicle use and performance restrictions based on detected users. Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

In various embodiments an owner operator or other user exerting control over a vehicle may provide use of the vehicle to another user. For example the vehicle may belong to a parent or friend that offers their vehicle for use to an associated person. The vehicle may also belong to a third party that is allowing use of the vehicle to a service shop valet service or other service provider while the third party is removed from the vehicle. The vehicle may also belong to a service that provides use of the vehicle to other users such as a company car rental vehicle a fleet vehicle and or a car share service. The vehicle may also correspond to vehicles other than a car such as a boat motorcycle airplane bus motorhome helicopter water craft drone etc. When using a vehicle offered to the user the user may be detected in the vehicle so that the vehicle identifies the user when the user is inside the vehicle and or utilizing the vehicle. For example the user may provide some information to a device associated with the vehicle. The user may log in to a device in the vehicle such as a center console computing device or heads up display by providing a log in credential to the device e.g. a log in credential identifying a user account for the user for example a name and PIN password associated with the user account . A proxy identification may also be used such as a RFID tag or NFC device. The user may also be detected when the vehicle s device connects to a communication device of the user. In such embodiments the user may have a mobile smart phone wearable computing device e.g. eyeglasses or wristwatch with processing features tablet computer or other user device. The vehicle s device and the device of the user s communication device through a short range communication protocol such as Bluetooth WiFi Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct infrared radio near field or other communication protocol. The device for the vehicle may correspond to a dashboard or other onboard computing device or may correspond to a device associated with the user exerting control over the vehicle such a mobile smart phone tablet computer wearable computing device or other user device. Thus once the vehicle s device and the user s communication device connect the user may be identified and checked in to the vehicle. Authorization may also be tied to a user account or anonymous token which may be shared by more than one user. Thus the aforementioned user detected in the vehicle may correspond more generally to a plurality of users sharing an identifier or identification information.

The user may also be detected through biometrics and biometric reading devices utilized by the vehicle device such as a fingerprint scanner e.g. a fingerprint scanner on a door handle steering wheel or input device of the vehicle device eye retinal scanner DNA reader breathalyzer etc. Once the user is detected in the vehicle the vehicle s device may set or load parameters for the user and access and or determine restrictions on use of the vehicle by the user. In various other embodiments the user exerting control of the vehicle may set standardized restrictions for the vehicle or may set restrictions based on user parameters e.g. age health etc. . The user parameters may also be based on information associated with the user such as subscriptions frequency of use or other user profile information about the user. In such embodiments the user may not need to be personally detected and or identified and a general detection of the user may be sufficient. Thus the user may be more generally identified than specifically identified through just a general state of being a user different from the user exerting control over the vehicle to more detailed parameters of the user e.g. age height weight etc. .

Once the user is detected as utilizing the vehicle restrictions for the user may be determined. The restrictions may be set for all use of the vehicle by the user or may vary based on use of the vehicle and or during use of the vehicle. Thus authorizations to use the vehicle and restrictions placed on use of the vehicle may vary during use of the vehicle e.g. if the user utilizes the vehicle in an unauthorized manner such as later than intended . The authorizations may be set on a single or limited use basis such as a restriction to prevent or allow usage of a vehicle entertainment system on a one time basis or use of the vehicle s payment application on a once per week basis for fuel. The restrictions may be set for the user individually for all users and or based on parameters of the user e.g. age height weight health etc. . The restrictions may be set by the user exerting control of the vehicle and may be specific to the vehicle or to all or part of the vehicles the user has control over. The restrictions may also follow the user so that other vehicle the user utilizes may inherit the restrictions from the first vehicles use such that the restrictions and or authorizations may be restored automatically to a new vehicle. The restrictions may be determined from information stored to the vehicle s device a server or a device for the user e.g. a communication device keyfob with a readable memory etc. .

The restrictions may also be set by a guardian of the user operating the vehicle such as a parent of the user. As used herein owner refers generally to anyone who exerts control over the vehicle or sets restrictions for use of the vehicle for the user. The restrictions may be retrieved or may be determined based on the parameters of the user. The restrictions may correspond to some aspect of use or performance of the vehicle and or onboard devices of the vehicle. For example restriction may be associated with a travel route taken by the vehicle a travel speed of the vehicle a use of an onboard computing feature of the vehicle e.g. a payment application module a satellite radio unit etc. and or a use of a service associated with the vehicle e.g. OnStar toll road payments etc. . For example the restrictions may include one or more of a restriction on a travel distance using the vehicle travel route using the vehicle travel speed using the vehicle an item payment made using an onboard computing device of the vehicle a toll payment made using the onboard computing device of the vehicle media playback using the onboard computing device of the vehicle radio or media stations available using the onboard computing device of the vehicle use of a communication application of the onboard computing device of the vehicle a number of other passengers in the vehicle an age of the other passengers in the vehicle an identity of the other passengers in the vehicle and an insurance policy associated with the vehicle.

Once the restrictions are accessed and or determined the restrictions may be enforced on usage of the vehicle by the user. Thus the user may be prevented from utilizing the vehicle in a way that violates the restrictions. For example the user may be prevented from utilizing a satellite radio of the vehicle or from performing payments using a payment application of the vehicle. However in certain embodiments restrictions on travel speed travel route or usage of onboard features of the vehicle may be unsafe for emergency reasons. Thus the usage of the vehicle may be monitored and reported to the party exerting control over the vehicle and or a guardian of the user. The user operating the vehicle may be alerted of the restrictions placed on the vehicle such as through an onboard device of the vehicle and or through the user s communication device. Moreover if the user begins to use the vehicle in an unauthorized manner the user may be alerted of the unauthorized usage for example to allow the user to rectify their usage. Additionally the restrictions on the use and or performance of the vehicle may also be dependent on the passengers in the vehicle and travelling with the user operating the vehicle. For example if a parent is with their child and operating the vehicle a restriction on allowing the child to travel with passengers under an age limit may be lifted. Moreover the user exerting control of the vehicle may allow for usage of a payment module associated with the vehicle to pay for fuel tolls or other items services if the user exerting control of the vehicle is within the vehicle during usage by another party. Thus the vehicle may also detect other users in the vehicle.

System includes a user a vehicle device a vehicle use server and service provider server in communication over a network . User such as a driver or operator of a vehicle corresponding to vehicle device may be detected and identified by vehicle device . For example user may connect a device to vehicle device may log in to vehicle device and or may be identified by user parameters or biometrics. Once detected restrictions for use of the vehicle may be accessed and or determined. The restrictions may be set with vehicle device and or vehicle use server . Various restrictions may include use of services offered by service provider server by vehicle device .

Vehicle device vehicle use server and service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Vehicle device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with vehicle use server and or service provider server . In various embodiments vehicle device may be implemented as a device for use in a vehicle corresponding to vehicle device such as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOGGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE which may provide processing services for the vehicle. Vehicle device may also be implemented as a device physically attached to and or connected to the vehicle such as a dashboard or central console computing system a heads up display with attached processing devices and or a similar in vehicle on board computing system. Although a vehicle device is shown the vehicle device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one vehicle device is shown a plurality of vehicle devices may function similarly. Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to vehicle device may be included in a communication device connected to vehicle device . Furthermore the processes and features of restrictions module of vehicle use server may be implemented on vehicle device instead.

Vehicle device of may contain a vehicle restriction module a user detection module other applications a database and a communication module . User detection module on board applications and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments vehicle device may include additional or different modules having specialized hardware and or software as required.

Vehicle restriction module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of vehicle device to set access and or determine restrictions on use of a vehicle by user and enforce those restrictions with respect to the vehicle corresponding to vehicle device . In this regard vehicle restriction module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by vehicle device to set access and or determine restriction for user and access and or determine those restrictions once user is detected by user detection module as will be explained in more detail with respect to user detection module . For example vehicle restriction module may receive input having restrictions for user such as through a user interface or from a device connected to vehicle device . The restrictions may be set by an entity exerting control over the vehicle corresponding to vehicle device . The restrictions may also be set by the entity with vehicle user server . The restrictions may be loaded to vehicle device and stored with vehicle device for example in database stored to a non transitory memory of vehicle device . The restrictions may also be accessed from vehicle use server on detection and identification of user . The restrictions for use of the vehicle by user may be set by user a guardian or entity associated with user e.g. a parent company rental agency etc. and or by a person or entity exerting control or ownership of the vehicle e.g. an owner of the vehicle or authorized operator controller of the vehicle such as a rental agent lessee of the vehicle dealership associated with the vehicle etc. .

A restriction on use of a vehicle associated with vehicle device by user may correspond to authorized and or unauthorized use of the vehicle and the vehicle s associated services and computing systems. In this regard a restriction on use of the vehicle by user may be associated with a travel route taken by the vehicle a travel speed of the vehicle a use of an onboard computing feature of the vehicle e.g. a payment application module a satellite radio unit etc. and or a use of a service associated with the vehicle e.g. OnStar toll road payments etc. . For example the restrictions may include one or more of a restriction on a travel distance using the vehicle travel route using the vehicle travel speed using the vehicle a time of travel or use of the vehicle e.g. no use before or after a time of day an item payment made using an onboard computing device of the vehicle a toll payment made using the onboard computing device of the vehicle media playback using the onboard computing device of the vehicle radio or media stations available using the onboard computing device of the vehicle use of a communication application of the onboard computing device of the vehicle a number of other passengers in the vehicle an age of the other passengers in the vehicle an identity of the other passengers in the vehicle and an insurance policy associated with the vehicle.

A restriction on use of the vehicle may be specific to one or more of user and the vehicle. For example a restriction may be placed on use of any vehicle that user utilizes such as preventing user from travelling with passengers if user has not met their state s age or driving experience requirements. Alternatively the restriction may also be placed on the vehicle particularly associated with vehicle device such as prevention of use of toll payment services for the vehicle by any operators of the vehicle aside from an owner of the vehicle e.g. to prevent payments of tolls by the owner when a friend co worker or other family member is utilizing the vehicle . The restriction may also be a combination of the two thereby creating a restriction for use of the particular vehicle associated with vehicle device by only user e.g. to prevent user from utilizing a satellite radio unit of the vehicle while still allowing other user s to use the aforementioned satellite radio unit .

Once user is identified the restrictions for user may be accessed and or determined by vehicle restriction module from database and or vehicle user server as previously discussed. For example the restrictions may be directly linked to an identity of user such that the restrictions are loaded by vehicle restriction module using the identity of user directly. In other embodiments the restrictions for user may be required to be determined based on the identity of user and or the parameters for user e.g. age health height weight etc. . Thus where a restriction may be associated with an age health height or weight of a user utilizing the vehicle associated with vehicle device the restriction may be determined once the parameters for user are accessed determined by vehicle restriction module . Restrictions for use of the vehicle based on parameters of user may correspond to speed of travel of the vehicle travel route of the vehicle authorized use operating the vehicle e.g. no operation of the vehicle if the user is above or below a certain age height weight etc. operation of onboard services and computing functions of the vehicle or other restriction as previously discussed.

Once the restrictions are loaded by vehicle restriction module vehicle restriction module may communicate the restrictions to user and or enforce the restriction on usage of the vehicle associated with vehicle device . In this regard vehicle restriction module may include hardware and or software to communicate the restrictions to user through a device interface of vehicle device and or to a communication device for user . The restrictions may be displayed to user with their corresponding restricted usage of the vehicle. Thus user may be informed about the restricted usage of the vehicle. The usage of the vehicle may be restricted by vehicle restriction module such as prevention of usage of one or more onboard systems use and or performance of the vehicle. However restriction on usage of the vehicle may be unsafe in certain embodiments e.g. limiting travel routes or travel speed . In such embodiments user may only be informed of the restriction and the vehicle s use or performance may not be limited.

Further vehicle restriction module may monitor and store user s actual usage of the vehicle and alert user and or the owner that user is utilizing the vehicle and or the vehicle s associated systems services in an unauthorized manner. If user is utilizing the vehicle in a manner that violates the restrictions user may be alerted by vehicle restriction module such as through vehicle device e.g. a displayable or audible notification alert or to a communication device for user . Additionally vehicle restriction module may alert the person entity exerting control over the vehicle that user is utilizing the vehicle in an unauthorized manner. Such alerts to the person entity exerting control over the vehicle may be communicated to a device associated with the person entity or may be stored in database or vehicle use server for retrieval by the person entity at a later time.

User detection module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated specialized hardware of vehicle device to detect user as in nearby or otherwise using a vehicle associated with vehicle device and determine an identity for user . In this regard user detection module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by vehicle device to first detect that user is operating or attempting to operate the vehicle. In order to detect user user detection module may utilize one or more sensors such as a door sensor weight sensor pressure sensor key detector or ignition switch biometric scanner log in process device connection communication module camera microphone and or proximity sensor. For example user may be detected when user opens a door to utilize the vehicle sits in a seat associated with the vehicle or places a key in an ignition or in proximity to the vehicle. Once user is detected as in or nearby the vehicle user detection module may determine an identity for user and provide the identification information to vehicle restriction module in order to determine one or more restrictions for use of the vehicle as previously discussed. For example a camera attached to or associated with the vehicle may capture an image of user and communicate the image to a service provider for determining the identity of user corresponding with the image. In another example a microphone may capture voice of user where identification of user may be through voice recognition means.

User detection module may determine an identification for user by detecting and connecting with a device associated with user and receiving identification information for user e.g. a name identifier etc. . As previously discussed vehicle device may be located in attached and connected to and or associated with a vehicle. User may utilize a communication device e.g. a mobile smart phone laptop or tablet computer wearable computing device or other device to connect to vehicle device in order to provide identification information to vehicle device . The connection between the user device and vehicle device may utilize short range wireless communications of vehicle device to establish the connection. For example user detection module may transmit an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID to the device. If user s device receives a request to establish the connection with vehicle device and responds with an identifier for user vehicle device to ramp up in power and create a connection between user s device and vehicle device . The identifier for vehicle device transmitted to user s device may be included in the received identifier for user and or user s device for example the identifier may be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier in the received token. In such embodiments user detection module may utilize communication module of vehicle device to receive the token from user s device and process the token to establish a connection and determine an identity for user . In various embodiments user detection module may execute in the background of an operating system of vehicle device and be configured to establish connections using communication module of vehicle device with user s device. However in other embodiments user detection module may connect with user s device on command by user .

Thus vehicle device may uniquely transmit the request to establish the connection with vehicle device as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for user s device and a token for vehicle device transmitting the request. In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication. Additionally although vehicle device may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the UUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously by vehicle device other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices to vehicle device and establishment of a connection for identification of user .

In various embodiments vehicle device may also request a log in from user that detects and identifies user for example using an input device associated with vehicle device e.g. an input interface of a display module for vehicle device . In such embodiments user may provide an identifier user account name password and or PIN directly to vehicle device without the use of the aforementioned device in possession of user . Once user logs in to user detection module an identity of user may be accessed e.g. from database or determined using vehicle user server or another service provider.

User may also be identified by vehicle device using biometrics and biometric reading devices utilized by vehicle device such as a fingerprint scanner e.g. a fingerprint scanner on a door handle steering wheel or input device of the vehicle device eye retinal scanner DNA reader breathalyzer etc. User may be detected using one of the aforementioned sensors or may be detected using the biometric scanner s associated with user detection module . Once a biometric reading of user is received by user detection module user detection module may determine and identity of user through accessing identification information associated with the biometric read to one or more of database and or vehicle use server . Thus identification information may be entered to vehicle using an interactive touch screen a keyboard a mouse a biometric reader or other input device for vehicle device . The identification information may further be stored with information for user such as the identifier for user the log in information of user and or the biometric reading of user .

In various embodiments one or more features of vehicle restriction module and or user detection module may be incorporated in the same module so as to provide their respective features in one module.

Vehicle device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to vehicle device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow an owner operator of a vehicle corresponding to vehicle device to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . Such communication applications may also correspond to mobile satellite wireless Internet and or radio communication applications connected to car services such as OnStar which may be configured to interact with one or more other vehicle devices functioning similar to vehicle device in order to facilitate mapping communication and or emergency services. Other applications may include payment applications and or services for example applications services that may provide payments for car servicing and or cleaning purchases made by a user in the vehicle e.g. user and or a person entity exerting control over the vehicle and or tolls gas or other travel payments required during use of the vehicle. Other applications may include mapping and or GPS applications configured to display location information to user . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other financial applications. Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface for vehicle device to the user. As previously discussed other applications may be limited restricted or otherwise managed by restrictions set for use performance of the vehicle associated with vehicle device by a person entity exerting control over the vehicle. For example use of communication radio mapping payment and or GUI services provided by other applications may be limited by the restrictions.

Vehicle device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with vehicle restriction module user detection module and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of vehicle device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Database may store identification information for one or more users including user as well as information necessary to access or determine the identification information when user utilizes the vehicle associated with vehicle device e.g. a identifier log in information a biometric reading etc. . Database may further store restriction for use with the vehicle associated with vehicle device . The restrictions may be associated or stored with the identification information for retrieval when a user is detected. However in other embodiments the restrictions may be accessed or determined using vehicle use server . In such embodiments database may only store received identification information determined by user detection module and used by vehicle restriction module to determine restrictions. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used by service provider server to associate vehicle device with a particular account maintained by service provider server .

Vehicle device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with vehicle use server service provider server and or a device for user . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with user s device using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Vehicle use server may be maintained for example by a service provider which may manage restrictions for a vehicle associated with vehicle device . For example vehicle use server may correspond to or be associated with a person or entity exerting control of the vehicle. In this regard vehicle use server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with vehicle device and or service provider server to provide determination and management of restrictions and enforcement of such restrictions on the vehicle. Although only one server is shown a plurality of servers and or associated devices may function similarly. Although vehicle use server is described as a server device in various embodiments vehicle use server may function as a specialized device for the vehicle. Thus although vehicle use server is shown as separate from vehicle device the below described modules hardware and functions may be included within vehicle device .

Vehicle use server of includes a restrictions module other applications a database and a network interface component . Restrictions module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware. In other embodiments vehicle use server may include additional or different modules having specialized hardware and or software as required.

Restrictions module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of vehicle use server to set manage and or access determine restrictions. In this regard restrictions module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by vehicle use server with vehicle device to set and or manage restrictions for user and or a vehicle associated with vehicle device . Restrictions for user and or the vehicle may be set and managed by user a person entity associated with user e.g. a guardian for user a workplace for user providing one or more vehicles to user a rental company used by user etc. and or a person entity exerting control over the vehicle associated with vehicle device . Restrictions may be entered to restrictions module of vehicle use server by vehicle device and or by another device server when the restrictions are set for user and or the vehicle. Restrictions module may associate received restrictions with identification information for user so that the restrictions may be accessed and or determined when identification information for user is received by vehicle device . The restrictions may be stored to database with the identification information. In various embodiments the restrictions may be communicated to vehicle device for storage as well.

As previously discussed restrictions for use of a vehicle associated with vehicle device may correspond to a restriction on the use of performance of the vehicle of an onboard module or application of the vehicle and or of a service associated with the vehicle. Further the restrictions may correspond to one or more restrictions for user e.g. all vehicle user may utilize for the vehicle e.g. all or some subset of users utilizing a vehicle and or for user s use of the vehicle. The restrictions may be accessed by restrictions module from database when vehicle device communicates identification information for user to vehicle use device . In other embodiments the restrictions may be accessed by vehicle device from database by vehicle restriction module as previously discussed. Moreover the restrictions may be determined by one or more of vehicle restriction module and restrictions module using parameters for user such as an age weight height health or other user parameter or preference. Such user parameters and preferences may be determined by one or more of vehicle restriction module and restrictions module using the user identification information determined using user detection module .

In various embodiments vehicle use server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to vehicle use server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Vehicle use server may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with restrictions application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of vehicle use server or other appropriate identifiers. Database may include restrictions set for use of a vehicle associated with vehicle device as well as information necessary to access or determine such restrictions on use of the vehicle by user . For example database may further include identification information for user as well as identifiers for user a device for user and or an account for user . Database may store log in information and or biometric information for user .

Vehicle use server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate with vehicle device and or service provider server over network . In various embodiments network interface component may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices.

Service provider server may be maintained for example by an online service provider which may provide a service associated with use of performance of a vehicle associated with vehicle device . For example service provider server may correspond to a payment service provider a merchant e.g. a gas station car maintenance company restaurant etc. a transportation service provider e.g. a toll road management company a media provider e.g. a radio provider a messaging service etc. a service provider managing an onboard application service of the vehicle e.g. a messaging phone mapping etc. service provider or other type of service provider. In this regard service provider server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with vehicle device and or vehicle use server . In one example service provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. Although only one server is shown a plurality of servers and or associated devices may function similarly. Although service provider server is described as a server device in various embodiments service provider server may function as a device e.g. a device for a gas station .

Service provider server of includes a vehicle action processing module other applications a database and a network interface component . Vehicle action processing module and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments service provider server may include additional or different modules having specialized hardware and or software as required.

Vehicle action processing module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices to process some action taken with regard to use of a vehicle associated with vehicle device . In this regard vehicle action processing module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by vehicle action processing module to receive a request to process an action by user when user is utilizing the vehicle associated with vehicle device . For example an action processed by vehicle action processing module may correspond to a transaction for processing by vehicle action processing module such as a payment to service provider server or a merchant. Other actions may correspond to a request for receipt or access of media including satellite radio stations messaging services between users and or other forms of audio video or audiovisual media content exchange e.g. receipt and presentation of video on vehicle device a mapping application of vehicle device etc. . Actions may also be associated with use of the vehicle associated with vehicle device such as toll payments vehicle maintenance requirements fuel requirements and payments or other use performance of the vehicle. Vehicle action processing module may process the action if the action is received from vehicle device . For example where vehicle restriction module has determined that no restriction is placed on the action vehicle device may communicate the action to service provider server for processing. However vehicle action processing module may also enforce restrictions on the use and performance of the vehicle. Thus if the action is received from vehicle device by vehicle action processing module vehicle action processing module may determine if a restriction is placed on the action from one or more of vehicle device and vehicle use server prior to processing. Vehicle action processing module may then process the action in accordance with the restriction e.g. choose to not process the action or process the action with the restrictions set on the action such as a spending limit requirement for a type of gas vehicle use requirements prior to usage of mapping or messaging services of vehicle device etc. .

In various embodiments service provider server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to service provider server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Additionally service provider server includes database . As previously discussed user and or a person entity exerting control over a vehicle associated with vehicle device may establish one or more payment accounts with service provider server . User accounts in database may include user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. Account holders may link to their respective accounts through a user and or device identifier. Thus when an identifier is transmitted to service provider server e.g. from vehicle device and or vehicle use server an account may be found. In other embodiments user and or the person entity exerting control over the vehicle may not have previously established an account and may provide other information to service provider server to process actions by vehicle action processing module as previously discussed. Additionally database may store received information such as actions for processing user identification information and or restrictions placed on actions processed by vehicle action processing module .

In various embodiments service provider server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate vehicle device and or vehicle use server over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

In environment user wishes to travel to an endpoint in vehicle . When first attempting to use vehicle user may be detected in vehicle such as through a sensor in a door seat steering wheel or other location in the car. User may also be detected when logging in to an onboard computing device e.g. vehicle device of of vehicle or may be detected when a device for user is detected by the onboard computing device e.g. through a device connection . Once user is detected the onboard computing device may determine an identity of user so that the onboard computing device may determine restrictions placed on user s use of vehicle and associated devices services. For example user s identity may be determined through an identifier sent by user s device to the onboard computing device through a log in process by user with the onboard computing device and or through a biometric reading detection taken of user . Once identification information for user is confirmed the onboard computing device may access restrictions on user s use of vehicle from a local database or an online database service associated with vehicle . Restrictions may also be determined from the aforementioned sources by the onboard computing device based on parameters for user in the identification information. For example if the identification information includes an age height health concern issue weight preference e.g. preference for use of vehicle or other user parameter the onboard computing device may use such user parameter s in order to determine restrictions associated with the user parameter s .

As previously discussed restrictions placed on user s use of vehicle may correspond to restrictions on the use and or performance of vehicle vehicle s onboard computing device user s personal device while operating vehicle and or services associated with vehicle . For example one such restriction would be to bar user from utilizing the onboard computing device s messaging and or media exchange application or such applications on user s personal device. Thus while travelling to endpoint user may be barred from such services. Another restriction may be placed on passengers allowed to be present in vehicle when user is operating vehicle . For example a state s driving regulatory laws may prevent new drivers or drivers under a certain age from travelling with passengers or passengers whom do not meet certain criteria. Thus a restriction may prevent user from travelling with such passengers. Restrictions may also be placed on usage of the onboard computing system s and or vehicle s associated services. For example vehicle may utilize a payment provider to complete payment for items such as food while travelling gas vehicle maintenance tolls etc. A restriction may be placed on usage of such a payment service by user where the person entity exerting control over vehicle does not wish to complete payments for user s use of vehicle . Thus where a location or a location include purchasable items services for vehicle user may be prevented from utilizing a payment service associated with vehicle from purchasing items at location or location

In further embodiments restrictions may be placed on a travel route speed and or time of travel by user using vehicle . For example user may travel to endpoint through location or location . A restriction may be placed on user to utilize the travel route through location over location since the route is more direct to endpoint . The restriction may also be placed on the time of day such that user is required to use the travel route through location during late night or early morning hours even if the travel route is longer as it may be more safe. Moreover if the person entity exerting control over vehicle wishes to have user complete a purchase at location or location the restriction may choose one of the travel routes through location or location

In environment user is travelling in vehicle with passenger . Passenger may be associated with one or more restrictions placed on user s usage of vehicle . For example where user is prevented from utilizing vehicle without passenger s presence passenger may be required to be detected and identified in vehicle prior to user s usage of vehicle . Conversely user may be prevented from utilizing vehicle while passenger is present. Thus if passenger is detected and or identified in vehicle user may be prevented from utilizing vehicle e.g. vehicle may not start or the person entity exerting control over vehicle may be alerted .

Passenger may also remove certain restrictions from user s usage of vehicle . For example user may be prevented from using a payment service associated with vehicle at a location or location . However if passenger is present in vehicle the restriction may be removed e.g. passenger may provide authorization and or authentication of charges at a merchant gas station car maintenance location toll etc. . In other embodiments user may be allowed to travel a route only if passenger if present. In such embodiments user may be prevented from taking a travel route through location where passenger is not present thereby being forced to drive through location . However once passenger is detected and or identified in vehicle user may travel through location using vehicle

Vehicle device executes a vehicle restriction module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to vehicle restriction module of . In this regard vehicle restriction module may be utilized to access and or determine restrictions for a user not shown of a vehicle not shown associated with vehicle device . The restrictions for the user may be accessed and or determined after the user is detected in or nearby the vehicle and attempting to operate the vehicle as previously discussed. Once the user is detected identification information for the user may be determined and the restrictions may be accessed and or determined.

Vehicle restriction module includes detected users having a user A . User A includes information for a user A identification user A information a vehicle usage parameter vehicle usage restrictions current usage and associated users . User A identification includes identification information for user A used to identify user A which may include detected identification such as a log in a detected connected device and received identifier and or a biometric reading for user A. Using user A identification user A information may be determined which may include information about parameters for user A such as a height weight age health condition etc. Thus using user A identification and or user A information vehicle usage parameter and vehicle usage restrictions may be accessed determined Vehicle usage parameter may correspond to a restriction on use of the vehicle associated with a user parameter in user A information . Similarly vehicle usage restrictions may be accessed based on user A identification and may include the restriction in vehicle usage parameter determined through user A information .

Vehicle usage restrictions includes one or more restrictions on use of the vehicle such as restrictions on travel e.g. a travel time route speed etc. payment e.g. use of an associated payment service to complete payments with merchants toll operators service providers gas stations and or vehicle repair maintenance providers media usage e.g. radio satellite communication messaging phone services social networking services mapping services etc. and or passengers e.g. allowed passenger identification number age etc. in the vehicle . Vehicle usage restrictions may further be communicated to user A when utilizing the vehicle and or may be enforced on usage of the vehicle by user A.

During user A s usage of the vehicle the usage may be recorded as current usage . Current usage may be utilized to determine if user A is operating the vehicle in an unauthorized manner Current usage may be communicated to user A and or a person entity exerting control over the vehicle. Moreover while utilizing the vehicle associated users may be utilized to either change parameters or alert another user of current usage . In this regard associated users include user B that may travel in the vehicle with user A. User B includes parameter and restriction changes which may alert user A s parameters and therefore vehicle usage parameter . Parameter and restriction changes may change vehicle usage restrictions so that user A may perform certain actions with respect to the vehicle that user A would be prevented from without user B being detected and or identified. Associated users may further include a user C having alerts that may include information in current usage that vehicle restriction module may communicate to user C e.g. unauthorized usage of the vehicle .

Vehicle use server include a restrictions module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to restrictions module of . In this regard restrictions module includes a vehicle A setting for restrictions of a vehicle A. Restrictions for vehicle A may be general or also may have particular settings under a user A . Thus user A includes information for identification detection of user A and user A usage restrictions . Thus user A includes information allowing vehicle device to identify user A and determine restrictions in user A usage restrictions . Restrictions for vehicle A may be communicated to vehicle device for storage or may be accessed be vehicle restriction module on detection identification of user A.

Service provider server include a vehicle action processing module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to vehicle action processing module of . In this regard service provider server may be utilized to process one or more actions of user A while operating the vehicle corresponding to vehicle device based on restrictions set on user A s usage of the vehicle. Thus vehicle action processing module includes a transaction A such as a payment transaction for purchase of some item and or service. Transaction A includes a vehicle A payment token having identification of the payment account instrument corresponding to vehicle A and utilized to complete transaction a . Transaction A may further include user A identification as additional identification of the person requesting transaction A .

At step identity information for a user is received on detection of the user in the vehicle via a user detection module of the vehicle. The user detection module may comprise a wireless beacon utilizing a short range communication protocol to connect with a device associated with the user when the device is in proximity to at least one of the vehicle and the user detection module. The short range communication protocol may comprise one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication LTE Direct communication and WiFi communication. The user detection module may detect the user using one of a weight sensor door sensor a login on an onboard computing system a fingerprint scanner a retinal scanner a movement sensor and a microphone. The user detection module may determine the identity information using at least one of a weight of the first user a login of the first user on an onboard computing system an RFID tag a radio or infrared communication from a key unit and a biometric of the first user.

A restriction on use of the vehicle by the user is accessed using the identity information by a vehicle restriction module of the vehicle that comprises at least one hardware processor at step . At step the restriction is communicated to the user. The restriction may be communicated to the user by at least one of an alert on a display interface of a display module in the vehicle and a message to a communication device of the user for example from a communication module of the vehicle. The vehicle restriction module may monitor the use of the vehicle by the user to determine if the use of the vehicle by the user complies with the restriction. The vehicle restriction module may enforce the restriction on the use of the vehicle by the user if the use of the vehicle by the user does not comply with the restriction. The vehicle restriction module may alert at least one of the user and a second user associated with at least one of the user and the vehicle if the use of the vehicle by the user does not comply with the restriction.

The vehicle restriction module may further process the restriction to determine a usage of the vehicle for example by enforcing the restriction on use or performance of the vehicle by the user. The use or performance of the vehicle may comprise at least one of a travel route taken by the vehicle a speed limit of the vehicle an onboard computing feature of the vehicle and an onboard service of the vehicle. Thus the restriction may comprise a restriction on at least one of travel distance using the vehicle travel route using the vehicle travel speed using the vehicle an item payment made using an onboard computing device of the vehicle a toll payment made using the onboard computing device of the vehicle media playback using the onboard computing device of the vehicle radio or media stations available using the onboard computing device of the vehicle use of a communication application of the onboard computing device of the vehicle a number of other passengers in the vehicle an age of the other passengers in the vehicle an identity of the other passengers in the vehicle and an insurance policy associated with the vehicle. For example the restriction may be at least one of health based age based spending based and insurance based.

A second user may set the restriction using the vehicle restriction module. In other embodiments the second user sets the restriction with one of a service provider associated with the vehicle a cloud storage service associated with the vehicle and a device associated with the first user and the vehicle restriction module may determine the restriction by receiving or accessing the restriction from the one of the service provider the cloud storage and the device. The vehicle restriction module may receive at least one second use restriction comprising an update to the restriction and process the at least one second use restriction to determine another usage of the vehicle by the user. The user detection module may also detect a second user in the vehicle when the user utilizes the vehicle and determine a second identification for the second user. In such embodiments the vehicle restriction module may process the second identification to determine any changes to the restriction caused by detecting the second user in the vehicle with the user. For example the second user may comprise at least one of a guardian of the user an owner of the vehicle and a manager of an insurance policy associated with the vehicle.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

