---

title: Cellphone with contoured surfaces
abstract: Disclosed is a housing for a portable handheld electronic device such as a cellphone. The device has a housing, having a left side and right side. At least one of the left side and right side is provided with integral surface features or surface structures to enhance gripping the cellphone, preferably along the entire length of the phone or within about the top half or one third of the phone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621690&OS=09621690&RS=09621690
owner: HOUDINIX LLC
number: 09621690
owner_city: Eastsound
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140407
---
This application claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 947 889 filed Mar. 4 2014 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Cellphones have increased in capability and have now evolved into so called smartphones. These mobile phones are built on a mobile computing platform with more advanced computing ability and connectivity than a typical cellular phone. The first smartphones were devices that mainly combined the functions of a personal digital assistant PDA and a mobile phone or camera. Modern models also incorporate the functions of portable media players digital still and video GPS navigation units and additional electronic capabilities.

Today s smartphones typically also include high resolution touchscreens web browsers that can access and properly display standard web pages and high speed data access via Wi Fi and mobile broadband links. Application programming interfaces APIs on smartphones allow third party applications to better integrate with the phone s operating system and hardware while cellphones more commonly run on proprietary firmware. A variety of operating systems power conventional smartphones including Android iOS and Windows Phone Android is a trademark of Google Inc. iOS is a trademark of Cisco Systems used under license by Apple Inc. and Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation . The confluence of consumer electronic devices and capabilities continues.

Despite the significant advances in hand held electronic devices the physical form of these devices has seen little evolution. Most are shaped like a more or less smooth brick with increasingly smooth front back and side surfaces. This configuration can easily slip from the hand of the user and risk damaging the phone with potential loss of valuable data as well as hardware. Some aftermarket removable covers have been proposed but such covers add bulk and weight and otherwise fail to provide an elegant solution.

Some of the inventions disclosed herein provide a housing for a handheld mobile electronic device such as a cellphone having a modified surface with ridges or contours to enhance traction and resist slipping of the housing in a user s hand.

In accordance with one aspect of at least one of inventions disclosed herein there is provided a cellphone having enhanced grip surface structures. The cellphone includes a body having a left side a right side a front surface with a display and a rear surface. At least one of the right side and left side is provided with enhanced gripped surface structures comprising at least two laterally projecting extensions defining a concavity therebetween.

Enhanced grip surface structures may be provided on both the left side and right side of the body. At least two concavities may be provided on each of the left side and right side of the body. In some implementations of the invention the projections are integrally attached to the cellphone body. A first number of concavities may be provided on the left side and a second different number of concavities may be provided on the right side.

In some implementations at least one concavity defines an inwardly extending contour on the rear surface but not on the front surface. Further in some implementations the inwardly extending contour extends on the rear surface and on one of the right and left sides but not on the front surface.

There is provided in accordance with another aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein a method of manufacturing a cellphone housing. The method comprises the steps of manufacturing a housing having a left side a right side and front facing and rear facing surfaces. At least one of the left side and right side include at least two laterally extending projections defining a concavity therebetween such that the at least two laterally extending projections defining the concavity therebetween remain exposed on the lateral sides of the cellphone following final assembly of the cellphone to provide a cellphone with enhanced grip surface structures.

The enhanced grip surface structures may be provided on both the left side and the right side of the body and may comprise at least two concavities on each of the left side and right side of the body.

The projections may be manufactured by a machining process a molding process or by stamping coining bending or other deformation process. Alternatively the projections may be provided as a separate component and mounted on the housing.

Another aspect of a least one of the inventions disclosed herein includes the realization that power requirements for photographic lighting has dropped sufficiently in recent years due in part to the widespread availability of small and low power LED lights that better lighting solutions can be applied to personal electronic devices such as smartphones or cellphones. For example those in the art of recognized that the low power photographic lighting solutions commonly referred to as a camera flash typically included on smartphones and cell phones do not provide photographically optimal lighting for all photographic applications. For example the typical single point of light type flash device on presently available cellphones can create high contrast shadows with sharp edges that can be undesireable for some applications.

Thus in accordance with some embodiments a handheld mobile electronic device such as a cellphone can include a photographic lighting device integrated there with wherein the photographic lighting device includes at least a plurality of light sources relative to a camera lens of the cell phone. For example in some embodiments the lighting device can extend around a periphery of the camera lens. Optionally in some embodiments the lighting device can extend around the periphery of another portion of the handheld electronic device adjacent to the camera lens. The lighting device can be powered directly by the power source used for powering the handheld electronic device. As such the cell phone can benefit from enhanced photographic lighting without the need for additional power supplies for powering the lights.

In accordance with additional aspects a cellphone with enhanced grip surface structures comprises a body having a left side a right side a top a bottom a front surface with a display and a rear surface. The right side and left side are provided with enhanced grip surface structures comprising at least two extensions projecting to the left and at least two extensions projecting to the right defining a left facing concavity and a right facing concavity. The concavities have a best fit radius of curvature within the range of from about 1.0 to about 2.0 inches and are positioned within the top half of the phone.

At least two concavities can be provided on each of the left and right sides. The at least two concavities on each of the left and right sides can be symmetrically spaced along the length of the phone. The projections in some implementations are integral parts of the cell phone body. Smooth outer side walls can be provided along the bottom half of the phone. The concavities can have a depth of at least about 0.0625 inches. The concavities can have a width of at least about 1.0 inches.

Further features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description of preferred embodiments which follows when considered together the attached drawings and claims.

Referring to there is illustrated a hand held electronic device such as a cellphone . Although described herein primarily in the context of a cellphone the inventions herein are applicable to any of a variety of handheld electronic devices with or without cellphone functionality including digital still and motion cameras personal navigation devices mobile internet devices handheld game consoles or devices having any or a combination of the functions discussed in connection with below.

The cellphone can include a housing having a top edge and a bottom edge . Viewing the phone in its normal use orientation cellphone includes a left side a right side and a display . Display displays a variety of applications functions and information as is understood in the art. Display may also incorporate touch screen control features as is understood in the art.

Dimensions of the housing can vary considerably depending upon the manufacturer and functionality of the phone. For example the HTC smart phone is approximately 104 mm high by 55 mm wide by 12.8 mm thick. The Samsung Galaxy S5 is about 142 mm in height 72.5 mm wide and 8.1 mm thick. The LG G2 is about 138.5 mm high by 70.9 mm wide by 8.9 mm thick. The Apple iPhone S5 is approximately 123.8 mm high by 58.6 mm wide by 7.6 mm thick. Cell phones incorporating any of the inventions disclosed herein may fall within the range of the minimum to maximum recited above or above or below that range as desired. In all of the foregoing commercial products the left side and right side are essentially perfectly linear. In contrast at least one of the left side and right side of the cellphone in accordance with an aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein are provided with regular undulating contoured surfaces to facilitate grip.

The contoured surfaces or edges can comprise interference fit or friction enhancing surface structures or configurations to facilitate gripping the device with reduced chance of slipping and dropping. They can be provided in a variety of forms including some discussed below. In general the surface structures are preferably permanently attached to the cell phone housing as distinct from removable cell phone protective cases such as are available in the aftermarket. The enhanced gripping surface can be integrally formed with the housing such as by machining injection molding or other operations. The surface may alternatively be applied at the point of manufacture or assembly such as by overmolding adhesively bonding or attaching by any of a variety of techniques such as with screws or other fasteners or by soldering welding brazing press fit interference interlocking structures or other attachment technique known in the art. The enhanced gripping surface is preferably not removable by the user in the course of ordinary intended use and removal by the consumer would require destructive acts or would void the warranty of the device. The contoured surfaces are thus in some embodiments preferably a part of the native housing of the cell phone or other hand held electronic device.

The terms concavity and projection as used herein are convenience terms to refer to deviations from planar in a lateral direction such that a laterally outwardly facing concavity is defined between two projections extending laterally in the same direction to define the sides of the concavity. The terms concavity and projection are thus used in a relative spatial sense and do not convey the manner in which they were formed unless otherwise specified. In general a projection to the right may be formed by adding material to the native right side surface of a substrate or by removing material from the native right side surface of the substrate on either side of a region which has now become a projection or by indenting a left side of a substrate to form a corresponding right facing projection or by bending a substrate such as into a zigzag configuration to produce a plurality of laterally facing projections and concavities.

The laterally extending structures may thus be projections in a conventional sense formed such as by the addition or attachment of projections to a starting surface to build it out but also include two native portions of a starting component between which a recess or indentation has been formed thereby resulting in the native surface forming a relative projection as a result of the recesses on either side. Thus any of a variety of manufacturing techniques may be utilized to provide the projections and recesses of the non smooth lateral sides of the cell phone body in accordance with one or more aspects of the inventions disclosed herein depending upon the materials and desired manufacturing techniques. The projections may be formed by injection molding or other molding techniques particularly in the case of a polymeric housing. Projections may be formed by stamping coining or other compression or bending steps to provide an impression on a first side of a substrate and a corresponding projection on the opposing side of the substrate. The substrate in this instance may be in the form of a strip e.g. stainless steel titanium aluminum or other metal of material that will subsequently be attached to a frame to form the lateral surfaces of the housing. Projections may alternatively be formed by attachment of a separate component to a substrate such as by adhesively bonding soldering brazing welding or other bonding technique or by mechanical interfit such as interference fit structures or through the use of fasteners such as screws rivets or press fit constructs. Projections and the corresponding intervening concavities may alternatively be formed by removal of material from a substrate to form the concavity such as by grinding milling EDM laser etching or other machining or removal technique as will be understood by those of skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein.

Referring to there is illustrated a schematic enlargement of the right side of the cellphone housing . The left side may or may not be a mirror image of the right side. Right side is provided with a contoured wall having at least one concavity positioned between a first projection and a second projection . At least one concavity and generally at least about 2 3 4 5 or more may be provided on right side . In the embodiment illustrated in four concavities are illustrated.

Additional details of a single concavity may be seen in connection with . An outer boundary is an imaginary line which contacts the apex of each of first projection and second projection . In an embodiment where the projections comprise curved surfaces the outer boundary would describe a tangent with respect to the first projection and second projection . The width of the concavity may be measured between the tangent contact point and in the implementation illustrated in . In an embodiment in which the projection has a flat surface such as that illustrated in the width of the concavity will be measured between the points at which the wall of the concavity fall away from the outer boundary in the direction of the center of the concavity.

The concavity may also be considered to have a depth measured between the outer boundary and the deepest point in the concavity .

The width of the concavity will generally be at least about 2 often at least about 4 or 6 and in some embodiments as much as 10 or more of the overall height of the housing measured along the direction of outer boundary line . In some implementations the width may be at least about 30 and in some implementations at least about 50 of the height of the housing depending upon the desired performance. In general the width of each concavity will be at least about 0.25 inches and often at least about 0.5 inches.

The depth of the concavity measured at its deepest point will typically be in excess of about 1 mm and often at least about 2 mm or 3 mm or more. In some embodiments the depth will be about 4 or 5 mm or more.

The cellphone housing illustrated in exhibits bilateral symmetry. However asymmetrical configurations may be desirable as described below. Referring to there is illustrated a cellphone housing as in with a left side and a right side . However the left and right sides exhibit bilateral asymmetry by having fewer concavities on the right side than are present on the left side . Mirror images of any of the asymmetrical configurations disclosed herein are also contemplated.

In the illustrated embodiment a single right side concavity is defined between a first projection and a second projection . The single concavity has a width of at least about 30 and in some implementations at least about 50 at least about 75 or 85 or more of the overall height of the phone. This configuration might be considered to be a phone optimized for right hand operation. As is understood in the art the anatomy of the hand includes a large rounded mound at the base of the thumb known as the thenar eminence. This is the result of a grouping of muscles dominated by the abductor pollicis bruvis. Providing a concavity having a width of at least about 1 inch and in some embodiments at least about 1 inches or 2 inches or 2 inches or more provides a cradle for the thenar eminence whereas the multiple distinct concavities on the left side of the housing provide individual cradles for individual fingers. Although the concavity is illustrated in as bilaterally symmetrical about the mid point of the height of the phone housing the mid point of the concavity may be offset in an inferior direction closer to the bottom edge than the top edge . In this manner the housing for the cellphone may more closely conform to the hand of the user and the form factor of cellphones in accordance with one or more aspects of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein may take the form of a contoured grip that may be securely grasped by the user.

Referring to it will be appreciated that embodiments of the concavities of the cellphone housing can provide a predictable landing point for each of the fingers when a user is grasping the cellphone. Thus finger buttons to control various functions of the phone may be located within one or more of the concavities . Buttons or other controls may be provided with an activation force threshold that is high enough that the cellphone may be grasped by the user under normal use conditions without activating the button. However upon application of a greater compressive force than normally utilized to grasp the phone the user can selectively activate the buttons as desired to control various functions of the telephone.

Thus referring to a first concavity may be provided with a user activated control such as a button for activation by the index finger. In this instance the illustrated cellphone is configured for operation by the user s right hand. A second concavity may be provided with a second control for activation by the user s middle finger. Additional buttons not illustrated may be provided for the user s ring finger and baby finger.

In addition a concavity on the right side of the phone may be provided with a button or other control for activation by the user s thumb. The thumb control may be positioned within a concavity defined between a first projection and a second projection that are less than about 2 inches and preferable less than about 1 inch apart. A larger concavity is provided as previously described to provide a cradle for the thenar eminence.

Embodiments of the concavities of relatively short width may begin to appear to have a corrugated or ridged surface such as illustrated in . In this implementation there may be at least about 5 at least about 10 and in some implementations at least about 15 or more concavities per running inch of width along the side walls of the phone. An additional example of housing profile is illustrated in showing a plurality of concavities having substantially constant radius of curvature.

Referring to there is illustrated a hand held device such as a cellular phone having a top edge a bottom edge a left side and a right side . Each of the left side and right side are provided with a plurality of substantially uniform concavities or undulations as will be discussed in greater detail. The illustrated embodiment exhibits bilateral symmetry with a first left projection disposed opposite a first right projection . Together projection and projection define an opposing projection pair oriented on a line which is transverse to the longitudinal axis of the phone. Preferably the first projection pair is located on the top half of the phone and generally will be within the top or top 25 of the overall height of the phone.

A second right projection may be provided opposite a second left projection . Together right projections and define the limits of a concavity extending therebetween. Second right projection and second left projection together form a second projection pair which in turn define a left and right concavity positioned within the top half of the phone. Second right projection and second left projection may define a line which is transverse to the longitudinal axis of the phone and which may cross the longitudinal axis of the phone at a point within the range of from about 30 in some embodiments within the range of from about 15 and in some embodiments within about 5 of the overall length of the phone from the longitudinal midpoint of the phone.

In the illustrated embodiment a third right projection is disposed opposite a third left projection to define a second pair of concavities . A fourth right and fourth left projection and a fifth right and fifth left projection may be provided depending upon the desired functionality of the phone.

In the illustrated embodiment the projection pairs are spaced symmetrically about the longitudinal centerline of the phone. In an embodiment having a longitudinal length of about 6.25 inches the second right projection and second left projection lie on a line which crosses the midpoint of the phone at approximately 3.125 inches from the top edge or lower edge . In this embodiment each concavity has a substantially constant radius of curvature which is generally within the range of from about 0.5 inches to about 2.5 inches often within the range of about 1.0 inches to about 2.0 inches and in one implementation the radius is within the range of from about 1.3 inches to about 1.8 inches. The curvature of the surface within each concavity may be substantially constant such that the surface curve conforms substantially to a portion of a surface of a circle. Alternatively the curvature of the concavity may be noncircular such as a surface which conforms to a portion of a surface of an ellipse or toroid. As used herein radius refers to the radius of a constant radius curve as well as the radius of a constant radius curve which has the best fit with the non constant radius curvature of the concavity .

The arc length measured along the surface of the curve of concavity from the apex of adjacent projections will generally be within the range of from about 0.5 inches to about 2.5 inches often between about 1.0 inches and 2.0 inches or within about 1.2 inches and about 1.8 inches.

A line illustrates the width of the phone at the upper edge and lower edge measured in parallel to the longitudinal axis of the phone. Line illustrates the outer most width boundary of the phone drawn along a tangent from apex to apex of adjacent projections. Concavities may thus represent an area of material which has been removed from the wall of the phone relative to the area of the best fit rectangle surrounding the perimeter of the phone.

The linear distance between reference line and reference line is generally at least about 0.050 inches often at least about 0.0625 inches and preferably at least about 0.125 inches.

A first plurality of screws or other fasteners may be provided for connecting front and back plates of the phone together. At least 2 and preferably at least 4 or 6 fasteners may conveniently be positioned along the right and left sides and within the projections thus enabling the fasteners to be carried off board so that the width of the viewing surface of the phone may be maximized relative to the overall mass of the phone.

A second set of fasteners may be provided with two fasteners located above the viewing screen and two fasteners located below the viewing screen. As such they may be radially inset towards the midline of the phone without compromising the viewing screen. An upper left speaker and upper right speaker may be provided above the viewing screen as well as a camera lens . A lower left speaker and a lower right speaker may be provided as well as at least one microphone may be positioned on the phone such as below the viewing screen.

Referring to there is illustrated a perspective view of the embodiment shown in . In the illustrated embodiment a front plate and a rear plate are spaced apart by an intermediate frame in a sandwich configuration to enclose the electronics of the phone. A plurality of fasteners secure the front plate and rear plate together to provide an enclosed electronics chamber.

Preferably the camera includes a capability for capturing still images with various and or adjustable resolutions and aspect ratios for example but without limitation as high as 6144 3160 pixels or higher with aspect ratios such as 2 1 2.4 1 16 9 etc and a capability for capturing motion images at resolutions up to about 6K or higher including for example but without limitation 6K 2 1 2.4 1 5K Full Frame 2 1 2.4 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 4.5K 2.4 1 4K 16 9 HD 2 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 3K 16 9 2 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 2K 16 9 2 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 1080p RGB 16 9 720p RGB 16 9 and toher resolutions and formats depending on the size of the image sensor used in the device and the capacity of the supporting electronics. Additionally the device can be configured to include a number of compression options including compressed raw mosaic image sensor data compressed fully rendered video data and uncompressed video data. An onboard memory preferably comprises a capacity of at least about 64 GB and in one implementation at least about 128 GB. The phone includes a slot or cavity for receiving at least one and preferably two or more SIM cards to enable the phone to receive two or more phone numbers. Two cameras are provided one facing outwardly from the front of the phone and one facing outwardly from the rear of the phone.

With continued reference to the device can include one or more lights which optionally can be used for personal lighting e.g. flashlight or photographic purposes. For example as noted above the device can include a camera lens . Optionally the device can include a lighting device disposed on the front side of the device facing the same direction as the lens . The lighting device can be any type of lighting device and in some embodiments is configured for high intensity flash output such as that used for flash photography . Additionally in some embodiments the lighting device can also be configured for continuous operation such as in a flashlight mode for providing lighting as desired by user. Similarly the lighting device can be configured for continuous operation during use of the camera lens for recording motion video. In some embodiments the lighting device can be in the form of one or plurality of LEDs. The design and operation of this type of lighting device including those designs based on LEDs is well known in the art.

Optionally as illustrated in the lighting device can extend around the periphery of the camera lens youth in connection with a first camera described below with reference to . As such the lighting device can provide an effect similar to that provided by lighting devices known as ring lights or ring flashes . In some embodiments the lighting device can be constructed using two or more light emitting devices such as LEDs and an optical diffuser such as a transparent material with a frosted surface application. Further the lighting device can include light emitting devices configured to be adjustable as to the color or temperature of light emitted therefrom. For example the light emitting devices included within the lighting device can be configured to emit different temperatures of white light typically used for photography. Additionally the lighting device can be configured to emit a large range of different colors of light for example using RGB LEDs light emitting devices. Such LED devices as well as the operation control of which are widely known and commercially available.

In some embodiments the device can include a lighting device . As shown in the illustrated embodiment of the lighting device can include a circumferentially extending configuration. For example the lighting device can extend around the display . In a similar fashion or the same fashion as the lighting device the lighting device can be constructed with a plurality of light emitting devices such as LEDs which can be white adjustable within a range of temperatures of white colors or a broad range of colors such as RGB LED lighting devices. Additionally the lighting device can be configured for control is a flash mode for photography in a flashlight mode or other modes for continuous or substantially continuous output of light for personal lighting applications such as recording motion video as desired. Additionally the device can include programming for operating the lighting device for further entertainment purposes such as light changing schemes which may or may not be synchronized with audio output from the device . Such control options and techniques are well known in the art.

As an alternative to or in combination with the lighting devices the device can also include a lighting device . As shown in the lighting device can be disposed along the peripheral edge of the device . In the illustrated embodiment the lighting device follows along the shape of the outer periphery of the vice and that includes or defines part of the concavities . Additionally similarly to the lighting device the lighting device can include a plurality of light emitting devices such as LEDs covered with a translucent cover for diffusing light emitted by the light imaging devices. In other embodiments as alternatives to or in combination with any of the lighting devices the device can include light imaging devices placed atop one or more of the screws described above.

With reference to the backside of the device can include a camera lens for example for use in conjunction with a second camera described below with reference to . Using a similar or identical construction as the lighting device the device can also include a light lighting device disposed partially or entirely around a periphery of the lens . Further as an alternative to or in combination with the lighting device the device can include a lighting device extending around a periphery of the backside of the device . The lighting device can be constructed in a similar or identical fashion to the lighting devices or two of four noted above.

By providing a lighting device with a more diffused light emission characteristics such as that resulting from the ring shaped lighting devices or the more rectangular lighting devices or even the use of a plurality of lighting devices disposed at a plurality of points relative to a camera lens such as the camera lens different lighting aesthetics can be achieved. In some photographic techniques the use of more diffused lighting can provide enhanced and or more desirable results for example by generating shadows with softer edges and or other effects.

With reference to in some embodiments the device can include concavities which do not extend onto the front side of the device . For example illustrates an alternative embodiment in which the concavities are in the form of concavities defined in the back surface of the device as well as one or both of the sides . illustrates a plurality of concavities which are defined partly on the backside of the device and on the left side . However an edge between the left side in the front side of the device extends along a generally straight line. That is because in the illustrated embodiment the concavities do not extend beyond the edge or onto the front side of the device . Thus the embodiment of the device illustrated in would appear to be rectangular in a top plan view in other words the concavities would generally not be visible in a top plan view of the front side the view corresponding to .

In some embodiments the concavities can have a maximum depth of approximately 75 of the thickness of the device however other depths can also be used. Additionally the concavities can have a length smaller than the magnitude of the depth approximately the same magnitude as the depth or up to 2 to 3 times the magnitude of the depth . However other configurations of the concavities can also be used. In the context of the embodiment of the raised areas adjacent to the concavities can be considered as forming projections on the left side defining the concavities therebetween.

Referring to an electronic device such as a cellphone in accordance with an embodiment may be connected to an external device by using an external connection device such as a sub communication module a connector and an earphone connecting jack . The external device may include a variety of devices such as earphones external speakers Universal Serial Bus USB memories chargers cradles docks Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB antennas electronic payment related devices health care devices e.g. blood sugar testers game consoles vehicle navigations and the like which are removable from the electronic device and connected thereto via a cable. The external device may also include a short range communication device that may be wirelessly connected to the electronic device via short range communication such as BLUETOOTH a short range wireless communications technology at the 2.4 GHz band commercially available from the BLUETOOTH SPECIAL INTEREST GROUP INC. a Near Field Communication NFC and the like and a communication device using WI FI DIRECT a wireless technology for data exchange over a computer network commercially available from the WI FI ALLIANCE a wireless Access Point AP and the like. Furthermore the external device may include any other device such as a cell phone a smartphone a tablet PC a desktop PC a server and the like.

Referring to the electronic device includes a display unit and a display controller . The electronic device also includes a controller a mobile communication module the sub communication module a multimedia module a camera module a Global Positioning System GPS module an input output module a sensor module a storage and a power supply . The sub communication module includes at least one of Wireless Local Area Network WLAN and a short range communication module and the multimedia module includes at least one of a broadcast communication module an audio play module and a video play module . The camera module includes at least one of a first camera a second camera a third camera and the input output module includes at least one of buttons a microphone a speaker a vibration motor the connector and a keypad . In some embodiments the second and third cameras can both be disposed on the backside of the device so to accommodate various types of photographic tools including 3 D still photography or motion video as well as other types of effects. Additionally the electronic device can include one or more lights for example the lights described above are schematically illustrated as a first light . Additionally the lighting devices are schematically illustrated as a second light .

The controller may include a Central Processing Unit CPU a Read Only Memory ROM for storing a control program such as an Operating System OS to control the electronic device and a Random Access Memory RAM for storing signals or data input from an external source or for being used as a memory space for working results in the electronic device . The CPU may include a single core dual cores triple cores or quad cores. The CPU ROM and RAM may be connected to each other via an internal bus.

The controller may control the mobile communication module the sub communication module the multimedia module the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module the storage the power supply the display unit and the display controller .

The mobile communication module connects the electronic device to an external device through mobile communication using at least a one to one antenna or a one to many antenna under the control of the controller . The mobile communication module transmits receives wireless signals for voice calls video conference calls Short Message Service SMS messages or Multimedia Message Service MMS messages to from a cell phone a smartphone a tablet PC or another device with the phones having phone numbers entered into the electronic device .

The sub communication module may include at least one of the WLAN module and the short range communication module . For example the sub communication module may include either the WLAN module or the short range communication module or both.

The WLAN module may be connected to the Internet in a place where there is a wireless Access Point AP under the control of the controller . The WLAN module supports the WLAN Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11x standard. The short range communication module may conduct short range communication between the electronic device and an image rendering device under the control of the controller . The short range communication may include communications compatible with BLUETOOTH a short range wireless communications technology at the 2.4 GHz band commercially available from the BLUETOOTH SPECIAL INTEREST GROUP INC. Infrared Data Association IrDA WI FI DIRECT a wireless technology for data exchange over a computer network commercially available from the WI FI ALLIANCE NFC and the like.

The electronic device may include at least one of the mobile communication module the WLAN module and the short range communication module based on the performance requirements of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may include a combination of the mobile communication module the WLAN module and the short range communication module based on the performance requirements of the electronic device .

The multimedia module may include the broadcast communication module the audio play module or the video play module . The broadcast communication module may receive broadcast signals e.g. television broadcast signals radio broadcast signals or data broadcast signals and additional broadcast information e.g. an Electric Program Guide EPG or an Electric Service Guide ESG transmitted from a broadcasting station through a broadcast communication antenna under the control of the controller . The audio play module may play digital audio files e.g. files having extensions such as mp3 wma ogg or way stored or received under the control of the controller . The video play module may play digital video files e.g. files having extensions such as mpeg mpg mp4 avi move or mkv stored or received under the control of the controller . The video play module may also play digital audio files.

The multimedia module may include the audio play module and the video play module except for the broadcast communication module . The audio play module or video play module of the multimedia module may be included in the controller .

The camera module may include at least one of the first camera and the second camera for capturing still images or video images under the control of the controller . Furthermore the first or second camera or respectively may include an auxiliary light source e.g. a flash for providing an amount of light for capturing an image. The first camera may be placed on the front of the electronic device and the second camera may be placed on the back of electronic device . Alternatively the first and second cameras and respectively are arranged adjacent to each other e.g. the distance between the first and second cameras and respectively may be in the range of 1 cm. to 8 cm. capturing 3 Dimensional 3D still images or 3D video images.

The GPS module receives radio signals from a plurality of GPS satellites in orbit around the Earth and may calculate the position of the electronic device by using time of arrival from the GPS satellites to the electronic device .

The input output module may include at least one of the plurality of buttons the microphone the speaker the vibrating motor the connector and the keypad .

The at least one of the buttons may be arranged on the front side or back of the housing of the electronic device and may include at least one of a power lock button a volume button a menu button a home button a back button and a search button.

The microphone generates electric signals by receiving voice or sound under the control of the controller .

The speaker may output sounds externally corresponding to various signals e.g. radio signals broadcast signals digital audio files digital video files or photography signals from the mobile communication module sub communication module multimedia module or camera module under the control of the controller . The speaker may output sounds e.g. button press sounds or ringback tones that correspond to functions performed by the electronic device . There may be one or multiple speakers arranged in at least one position on or in the housing of the electronic device .

The vibrating motor may convert an electric signal to a mechanical vibration under the control of the controller . For example the electronic device in a vibrating mode operates the vibrating motor when receiving a voice call from another device. There may be at least one vibration motor inside the housing of the electronic device . The vibration motor may operate in response to a touch activity or continuous touches of a user over the display unit .

The connector may be used as an interface for connecting the electronic device to the external device or a power source. Under the control of the controller the electronic device may transmit data stored in the storage of the electronic device to the external device via a cable connected to the connector or receive data from the external device. Furthermore the electronic device may be powered by the power source via a cable connected to the connector or may charge the battery using the power source.

The keypad may receive key inputs from the user to control the electronic device . The keypad includes a mechanical keypad formed in the electronic device or a virtual keypad displayed on the display unit . The mechanical keypad formed in the electronic device may optionally be omitted from the implementation of the electronic device depending on the performance requirements or structure of the electronic device .

An earphone may be inserted into the earphone connecting jack and thus may be connected to the electronic device .

A stylus pen may be inserted and removably retained in the electronic device and may be drawn out and detached from the electronic device .

A pen removable recognition switch that operates in response to attachment and detachment of the stylus pen is equipped in an area inside the electronic device where the stylus pen is removably retained and sends a signal that corresponds to the attachment or the detachment of the stylus pen to the controller . The pen removable recognition switch may have a direct or indirect contact with the stylus pen when the stylus pen is inserted into the area. The pen removable recognition switch generates the signal that corresponds to the attachment or detachment of the stylus pen based on the direct or indirect contact and provides the signal to the controller .

The sensor module includes at least one sensor for detecting a status of the electronic device . For example the sensor module may include a proximity sensor for detecting proximity of a user to the electronic device an illumination sensor for detecting an amount of ambient light of the electronic device a motion sensor for detecting the motion of the electronic device e.g. rotation of the electronic device acceleration or vibration applied to the electronic device a geomagnetic sensor for detecting a point of the compass using the geomagnetic field a gravity sensor for detecting a direction of gravity and an altimeter for detecting an altitude by measuring atmospheric pressure. At least one sensor may detect the status and generate a corresponding signal to transmit to the controller . The sensor of the sensor module may be added or removed depending on the performance requirements of the electronic device of the electronic device .

The storage may store signals or data input output according to operations of the mobile communication module the sub communication module the multimedia module the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module the display unit under the control of the controller . The storage may store the control programs and applications for controlling the electronic device or the controller .

The term storage refers to the storage and also to the ROM RAM in the controller or a memory card e.g. a Secure Digital SD card a memory stick and the like installed in the electronic device . The storage may also include a non volatile memory a volatile memory a Hard Disc Drive HDD a Solid State Drive SSD or the like.

The power supply may supply power to at least one battery placed inside the housing of the electronic device under the control of the controller . The at least one battery powers the electronic device . The power supply may supply the electronic device with the power input from the external power source via a cable connected to the connector . The power supply may also supply the electronic device with wireless power from an external power source using a wireless charging technology.

The display controller receives information e.g. information to be generated for making calls data transmission broadcast or photography that is processed by the controller converts the information to data to be displayed on the display unit and provides the data to the display unit . The display unit displays the data received from the display controller . For example in a call mode the display unit may display a User Interface UI or a Graphic User Interface GUI with respect to a call. The display unit may include at least one of liquid crystal displays thin film transistor liquid crystal displays organic light emitting diodes flexible displays 3D displays electrophoretic displays and the like.

The display unit may be used as an output device and also as an input device and for the latter case may have a touchscreen panel to operate as a touch screen. The display unit may send to the display controller an analog signal that corresponds to at least one touch to the UI or GUI. The display unit may detect the at least one touch by a user s physical contact e.g. by fingers including a thumb or by a touchable input device e.g. the stylus pen . The display unit may also receive a dragging movement of a touch among at least one touch and transmit an analog signal that corresponds to the dragging movement to the display controller . The display unit may be implemented to detect at least one touch in for example a resistive method a capacitive method an infrared method an acoustic wave method or the like.

The term touches are not limited to physical touches by a physical contact of the user or contacts with the touchable input device but may also include touchless proximity e.g. maintaining a detectable distance less than 1 mm. between the display unit and the user s body or touchable input device . The detectable distance from the display unit may vary depending on the performance requirements of the electronic device or structure of the electronic device and more particularly the display unit may output different values e.g. current values for touch detection and hovering detection to distinguishably detect that a touch event occurred by a contact with the user s body or the touchable input device and a contactless input e.g. a hovering event . Furthermore the display unit may output different values e.g. current values for hovering detection over distance from where the hovering event occurs.

The display controller converts the analog signal received from the display unit to a digital signal e.g. in XY coordinates on the touch panel or display screen and transmits the digital signal to the controller . The controller may control the display unit by using the digital signal received from the display controller . For example in response to the touch event or the hovering event the controller may enable a shortcut icon displayed on the display unit to be selected or to be executed. The display controller may also be incorporated in the controller .

Further the display controller may determine the distance between where the hovering event occurs and the display unit by detecting a value e.g. a current value output through the display unit convert the determined distance to a digital signal e.g. with a Z coordinate and provide the digital signal to the controller .

The display unit may include at least two touchscreen panels for detecting touches or proximity thereto by the user s body or the touchable input device to receive both inputs by the user s body or the touchable input device simultaneously. The at least two touchscreen panels provide different output values to the display controller and the display controller may differentiate inputs by the user s body and inputs by the touchable input device through the touchscreen by differently recognizing the values input from the at least two touchscreen panels.

