---

title: Managing questioning in a question and answer system
abstract: A system, a method, and a computer program product for managing questioning in a Question and Answering (QA) system are disclosed. An input question received by the QA system is analyzed to determine the set of answer-types. A set of answer-types is determined. Prompting for clarifying data associated with the input question happens. A set of candidate answers of the answer-type is determined. The clarifying data is used to determine the set of candidate answers. At least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the answer-type is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633138&OS=09633138&RS=09633138
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09633138
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140903
---
This disclosure relates generally to computer systems and more particularly relates to a question and answer system.

With the increased usage of computing networks such as the Internet humans can be inundated and overwhelmed with the amount of information available to them from various structured and unstructured sources. However information gaps can occur as users try to piece together what they can find that they believe to be relevant during searches for information on various subjects. To assist with such searches recent research has been directed to generating Question and Answer QA systems which may take an input question analyze it and return results to the input question. QA systems provide mechanisms for searching through large sets of sources of content e.g. electronic documents and analyze them with regard to an input question to determine an answer to the question.

Aspects of the disclosure include a system a method and a computer program product for managing questioning in a Question and Answering QA system. The system the method and the computer program product include receiving an input question by the QA system. The input question may be analyzed to determine the set of answer types. The system the method and the computer program product include determining that a set of answer types includes a temporally related answer type. The system the method and the computer program product include prompting for temporally related data. The temporally related data can be associated with the input question. The system the method and the computer program product may include determining a set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type. The temporally related data may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. The system the method and the computer program product include providing selecting at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type.

In embodiments the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may have a temporal type. For instance the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a historical type. As another example the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a normal type. For another illustration the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a current type. In embodiments one of these example temporal types may be selected. According to aspects of the disclosure the system the method and the computer program product may include determining a set of confidence ratings for at least a portion of a set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type. In embodiments a natural language clarifying question can be generated. The natural language clarifying question may be configured to stimulate temporally related data associated with the input question.

Questions can be ambiguous vague or have multiple types of answers to the question. It can be challenging to formulate or decide on what kind of answer is appropriate. Particular challenges can be identified in response to a lack of context around the question. Aspects of the disclosure provide a methodology to get clarification to a question. Asking clarifying questions may provide a more appropriate type of answer or a more specific answer.

Clarifications to questions may be formulated using temporal information and major characteristic definitions related to answer types or answers. For example the temporal information may include question types that are time sensitive in nature. To illustrate consider answering What is the best vacation resort according to three time spans current now if the question is asked mid winter the skiing resorts may be at the top of the results and the mountain biking resorts may be at the bottom of the results also Utah may have fresh snow while Vermont may be in a drought normal in mid winter results may favor the skiing resorts but also may include some early spring possibilities and historical over the past 50 years a certain national park may be the highest rated resort and the fact that the question is asked mid winter may be less consequential to the results . A clarifying follow up question can be posed as part of a dialogue to assist in determining an answer that can be viewed as positive constructive from the perspective of a user. The techniques described may be beneficial in a dialogue oriented setting such as a contact call center. Aspects of the disclosure may have a positive impact on accuracy of search results number of search results or performance efficiencies.

Aspects of the disclosure include a system a method and a computer program product for managing questioning in a Question and Answering QA system. The system the method and the computer program product include receiving an input question by the QA system. The input question may be analyzed to determine the set of answer types. The system the method and the computer program product include determining that a set of answer types includes a temporally related answer type. The system the method and the computer program product include prompting for temporally related data. The temporally related data can clarify the input question. The system the method and the computer program product may include determining a set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type. The temporally related data may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. The system the method and the computer program product include providing selecting at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type.

According to aspects of the disclosure the system the method and the computer program product may include determining a set of confidence ratings for at least a portion of a set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type. In embodiments determining that a set of candidate answers includes the temporally related answer type can include determining a set of confidence ratings for at least a portion of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type. The set of confidence ratings for at least the portion of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be used to provide select at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type.

In embodiments a natural language clarifying question can be generated. The natural language clarifying question may be configured to stimulate temporally related data clarifying the input question. In embodiments prompting for temporally related data clarifying the input question may happen occur in response to generating the natural language clarifying question. In embodiments prompting for temporally related data clarifying the input question can include prompting for temporally related data absent from the input question. In embodiments prompting for temporally related data clarifying the input question may include providing a span statement configured to facilitate an association with the temporally related data.

In embodiments the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may have a temporal type. For instance the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a historical type. As another example the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a normal type. For another illustration the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a current type. In embodiments one of these example temporal types may be selected. Certain embodiments may include a relationship between the span statement and at least one temporal type. In embodiments at least one specific feature of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be designated as temporally dependent.

According to aspects of the disclosure the system the method and the computer program product may include determining the set of answer types has a major characteristic definition. The system the method and the computer program product may include prompting for major characteristic information. The major characteristic information can be associated with the input question. The major characteristic information may be received by the QA system. The system the method and the computer program product may include determining the set of candidate answers. The major characteristic information may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. Aspects of the disclosure may have a positive impact on accuracy of search results number of search results or performance efficiencies.

Turning now to the figures is a diagrammatic illustration of an exemplary computing environment consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure. In certain embodiments the environment can include one or more remote devices and one or more host devices . Remote devices and host device may be distant from each other and communicate over a network in which the host device comprises a central hub from which remote devices can establish a communication connection. Alternatively the host device and remote devices may be configured in any other suitable relationship e.g. in a peer to peer or other relationship .

In certain embodiments the network can be implemented by any number of any suitable communications media e.g. wide area network WAN local area network LAN Internet Intranet etc. . Alternatively remote devices and host devices may be local to each other and communicate via any appropriate local communication medium e.g. local area network LAN hardwire wireless link Intranet etc. . In certain embodiments the network can be implemented within a cloud computing environment or using one or more cloud computing services. Consistent with various embodiments a cloud computing environment can include a network based distributed data processing system that provides one or more cloud computing services. In certain embodiments a cloud computing environment can include many computers hundreds or thousands of them disposed within one or more data centers and configured to share resources over the network.

In certain embodiments host device can include a question answering system also referred to herein as a QA system having a search application and an answer module . In certain embodiments the search application may be implemented by a conventional or other search engine and may be distributed across multiple computer systems. The search application can be configured to search one or more databases or other computer systems for content that is related to a question input by a user at a remote device .

In certain embodiments remote devices enable users to submit questions e.g. search requests or other queries to host devices to retrieve search results. For example the remote devices may include a query module e.g. in the form of a web browser or any other suitable software module and present a graphical user e.g. GUI etc. or other interface e.g. command line prompts menu screens etc. to solicit queries from users for submission to one or more host devices and further to display answers results obtained from the host devices in relation to such queries.

Consistent with various embodiments host device and remote devices may be computer systems preferably equipped with a display or monitor. In certain embodiments the computer systems may include at least one processor memories and or internal or external network interface or communications devices e.g. modem network cards etc. optional input devices e.g. a keyboard mouse or other input device and any commercially available and custom software e.g. browser software communications software server software natural language processing software search engine and or web crawling software filter modules for filtering content based upon predefined criteria etc. . In certain embodiments the computer systems may include server desktop laptop and hand held devices. In addition the answer module may include one or more modules or units to perform the various functions of present disclosure embodiments described below e.g. receiving an input question determining a set of answer types one or more answer types prompting for clarifying data determining a set of candidate answers providing at least one candidate answer and may be implemented by any combination of any quantity of software and or hardware modules or units.

The various components of the exemplary high level logical architecture for a QA system described above may be used to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. For example the question analysis component could in certain embodiments be used to analyze an input question. Further the search component can in certain embodiments be used to perform a search of a corpus of information using clarifying data. The candidate generation component can be used to identify a set of candidate answers one or more candidate answers based on clarifying data. Further the answer selection component can in certain embodiments be used to provide at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers.

A question similarly referred to herein as a query may be one or more words that form a search term or request for data information or knowledge. A question may be expressed in the form of one or more keywords. Questions may include various selection criteria and search terms. A question may be composed of complex linguistic features not only keywords. However keyword based search for answer is also possible. In certain embodiments using unrestricted syntax for questions posed by users is enabled. The use of restricted syntax results in a variety of alternative expressions for users to better state their needs.

Consistent with various embodiments client applications can include one or more components such as a search application and a mobile client . Client applications can operate on a variety of devices. Such devices include but are not limited to mobile and handheld devices such as laptops mobile phones personal or enterprise digital assistants and the like personal computers servers or other computer systems that access the services and functionality provided by QA system . For example mobile client may be an application installed on a mobile or other handheld device. In certain embodiments mobile client may dispatch query requests to QA system .

Consistent with various embodiments search application can dispatch requests for information to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can be a client application to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can send requests for answers to QA system . Search application may be installed on a personal computer a server or other computer system. In certain embodiments search application can include a search graphical user interface GUI and session manager . Users may enter questions in search GUI . In certain embodiments search GUI may be a search box or other GUI component the content of which represents a question to be submitted to QA system . Users may authenticate to QA system via session manager . In certain embodiments session manager keeps track of user activity across sessions of interaction with the QA system . Session manager may keep track of what questions are submitted within the lifecycle of a session of a user. For example session manager may retain a succession of questions posed by a user during a session. In certain embodiments answers produced by QA system in response to questions posed throughout the course of a user session may also be retained. Information for sessions managed by session manager may be shared between computer systems and devices.

In certain embodiments client applications and QA system can be communicatively coupled through network e.g. the Internet intranet or other public or private computer network. In certain embodiments QA system and client applications may communicate by using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Representational State Transfer REST calls. In certain embodiments QA system may reside on a server node. Client applications may establish server client communication with QA system or vice versa. In certain embodiments the network can be implemented within a cloud computing environment or using one or more cloud computing services. Consistent with various embodiments a cloud computing environment can include a network based distributed data processing system that provides one or more cloud computing services.

Consistent with various embodiments QA system may respond to the requests for information sent by client applications e.g. posed questions by users. QA system can generate answers to the received questions. In certain embodiments QA system may include a question analyzer data sources and answer generator . Question analyzer can be a computer module that analyzes the received questions. In certain embodiments question analyzer can perform various methods and techniques for analyzing the questions syntactically and semantically. In certain embodiments question analyzer can parse received questions. Question analyzer may include various modules to perform analyses of received questions. For example computer modules that question analyzer may encompass include but are not limited to a tokenizer part of speech POS tagger semantic relationship identification and syntactic relationship identification .

Consistent with various embodiments tokenizer may be a computer module that performs lexical analysis. Tokenizer can convert a sequence of characters into a sequence of tokens. Tokens may be string of characters typed by a user and categorized as a meaningful symbol. Further in certain embodiments tokenizer can identify word boundaries in an input question and break the question or any text into its component parts such as words multiword tokens numbers and punctuation marks. In certain embodiments tokenizer can receive a string of characters identify the lexemes in the string and categorize them into tokens.

Consistent with various embodiments POS tagger can be a computer module that marks up a word in a text to correspond to a particular part of speech. POS tagger can read a question or other text in natural language and assign a part of speech to each word or other token. POS tagger can determine the part of speech to which a word corresponds based on the definition of the word and the context of the word. The context of a word may be based on its relationship with adjacent and related words in a phrase sentence question or paragraph. In certain embodiments context of a word may be dependent on one or more previously posed questions. Examples of parts of speech that may be assigned to words include but are not limited to nouns verbs adjectives adverbs and the like. Examples of other part of speech categories that POS tagger may assign include but are not limited to comparative or superlative adverbs wh adverbs conjunctions determiners negative particles possessive markers prepositions wh pronouns and the like. In certain embodiments POS tagger can tag or otherwise annotates tokens of a question with part of speech categories. In certain embodiments POS tagger can tag tokens or words of a question to be parsed by QA system .

Consistent with various embodiments semantic relationship identification may be a computer module that can identify semantic relationships of recognized entities in questions posed by users. In certain embodiments semantic relationship identification may determine functional dependencies between entities the dimension associated to a member and other semantic relationships.

Consistent with various embodiments syntactic relationship identification may be a computer module that can identify syntactic relationships in a question composed of tokens posed by users to QA system . Syntactic relationship identification can determine the grammatical structure of sentences for example which groups of words are associated as phrases and which word is the subject or object of a verb. In certain embodiments syntactic relationship identification can conform to a formal grammar.

In certain embodiments question analyzer may be a computer module that can parse a received query and generate a corresponding data structure of the query. For example in response to receiving a question at QA system question analyzer can output the parsed question as a data structure. In certain embodiments the parsed question may be represented in the form of a parse tree or other graph structure. To generate the parsed question question analyzer may trigger computer modules . Question analyzer can use functionality provided by computer modules individually or in combination. Additionally in certain embodiments question analyzer may use external computer systems for dedicated tasks that are part of the question parsing process.

Consistent with various embodiments the output of question analyzer can be used by QA system to perform a search of one or more data sources to retrieve information to answer a question posed by a user. In certain embodiments data sources may include data warehouses information corpora data models and document repositories. In certain embodiments the data source can be an information corpus . The information corpus can enable data storage and retrieval. In certain embodiments the information corpus may be a storage mechanism that houses a standardized consistent clean and integrated form of data. The data may be sourced from various operational systems. Data stored in the information corpus may be structured in a way to specifically address reporting and analytic requirements. In one embodiment the information corpus may be a relational database. In some example embodiments data sources may include one or more document repositories.

In certain embodiments answer generator may be a computer module that generates answers to posed questions. Examples of answers generated by answer generator may include but are not limited to answers in the form of natural language sentences reports charts or other analytic representation raw data web pages and the like.

Consistent with various embodiments answer generator may include query processor visualization processor and feedback handler . When information in a data source matching a parsed question is located a technical query associated with the pattern can be executed by query processor . Based on retrieved data by a technical query executed by query processor visualization processor can render visualization of the retrieved data where the visualization represents the answer. In certain embodiments visualization processor may render various analytics to represent the answer including but not limited to images charts tables dashboards maps and the like. In certain embodiments visualization processor can present the answer to the user in understandable form.

In certain embodiments feedback handler can be a computer module that processes feedback from users on answers generated by answer generator . In certain embodiments users may be engaged in dialog with the QA system to evaluate the relevance of received answers. Answer generator may produce a list of answers corresponding to a question submitted by a user. The user may rank each answer according to its relevance to the question. In certain embodiments the feedback of users on generated answers may be used for future question answering sessions.

The various components of the exemplary question answering system described above may be used to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. For example the client application could be used to receive an input question from a user. The question analyzer could in certain embodiments be used to analyze the input question to determine characteristic s about a set of answer types. Further the query processor or the answer generator could in certain embodiments be used to determine a set of candidate answers.

At block it may be determined that a set of answer types includes a temporally related answer type which may be a subset of a deducible answer type in embodiments . The determination regarding the set of answer types at block can be made by analyzing the input question. Analyzing the input question can include positive impacts on understanding information related to who what when where why or how. Also analyzing the input question can include activity task flow information what are and where are interactions plus specific tasks that make up the activities plus sequencing or behind the scenes occurrences . In embodiments analyzing the input question may include contextual environmental cultural or resource availability factors. Analyzing the input question may have meaning or emotional influences indicating feelings of the input being provided and thus answer sought. In addition measurable factors may be included in analyzing the input question which may be quantifiable.

For example in the input question above the best resort may be the end goal. What is the best resort can change over time from decades to years to even certain weeks or days for example a particular resort may be a great place to stay every day of every year except when a large number of colleges are on spring break . The set of words may have a temporally related semantic element or word. The temporally related word may indicate a time based aspect to the input question. Time based words can include words such as ever when or the name of a season e.g. spring as in the example . In embodiments phrases such as tulips blooming could be temporally related in particular when used in association with a location e.g. referring to a tulip festival in Iowa .

In embodiments the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type can include a temporal type at block . The temporal type may be bounded by dates e.g. in days months or years . The temporal type may be selected from a group consisting of a historical type e.g. a period of time considered as history based on context for answering the input question a normal period type e.g. a period of time that would normally perhaps most frequently be considered based on context for answering the input question or a current type e.g. a period of time considered as now trending based on context for answering the input question .

For example the best resort may have temporally related historical answer e.g. since vacationing near large bodies of water became popular the best resort of all time which offered all of the best amenities . The best resort may have a temporally related normal answer e.g. based on vacationing there sometime in the next year a popular resort receiving excellent reviews from people who have vacationed fairly recently . The best resort may have a temporally related current answer e.g. if the question is being asked exactly when the large number of colleges are on spring break a specific resort known to be exceptional for skiing during a federal holiday in January . In embodiments a classification component may assign a particular candidate answer with a particular temporally related answer type at block .

The historical type may be based on an era or generation e.g. Roaring 20 s industrial age Millenials . In embodiments the historical type may include a beginning stage or genesis of a topic in contrast to the normal type or current type which may not include the beginning stage a batting average for a career of a baseball player including first at bat . The normal type may be based on a reputation rating e.g. a reputation may be developed over a time period emphasizing particular elements within the past year but also including specifically chosen relevant elements from the past five years . In embodiments the normal type may be based on defined periods of time e.g. a batting average for a baseball player for an ongoing season bounded by the date of the first game and the date of the last game . The current type may be based on events having an exigent feature or circumstance an exigent feature or circumstance can include swift action e.g. having positive impacts on traveling to see cherry blossoms in full bloom due to a triggering event such as weather conditions in a specified week a batting average for a baseball player in the most recent ten days or during today s doubleheader where the baseball player appears to be hitting with a skill at an extreme good poor level . These types are merely exemplary and other types may be utilized in other embodiments. For example a season type is contemplated for seasons such as summer or winter or baseball season versus hockey season .

In embodiments at least one specific feature of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be designated as temporally dependent. For example the one specific feature that may be designated as temporally dependent in the example could be Spring Training if that refers to professional baseball because it depends on a particular year s calendar and regular season schedule as to when spring training occurs. Temporally related can be for example time based or period oriented. Spans of time or durations of time for instance can impact an answer type. Using the spring training example a span of time might be from mid February to the beginning of April each year. Using the large number of colleges on spring break example that could happen during the 10th 11th and 12th full seven day weeks of each year. The example could also be seeking an answer to the best resort from decades ago with someone merely inputting facts they remember from their experience. Thus context of a temporal nature can show information useful to provide an answer particularly one believed to be more accurate . Such context can reveal information to be time sensitive e.g. when spring break is happening . Thus a different answer to a given input question may be appropriate using different temporally related information inputs e.g. decades ago generally throughout the year during early March next week tonight . In this way a given answer type might be considered temporally dependent.

At block a prompt may take place for temporally related data which may be a subset of clarifying data . The temporally related data can clarify the input question. The prompt may be a clarifying question. The prompt may be seeking information absent e.g. perceived to be missing in the input question e.g. exact dates at block . For example Do you want resorts with availability this March or Do you need a resort for this weekend or Do you want a history of the best resorts ever to exist in Port Charlotte Florida or What time period are you referring to The prompt could have multiple choice answers be fill in the blank or a variety of other methodologies. In embodiments a user may be prompted with a span statement at block where the user may be asked to provide information to facilitate an association with the temporally related data. The span statement may be Did you mean for or Did you mean for the historical time to or Did you mean for In response to being prompted the user may provide clarifying data e.g. temporally related data such as March 14 26 .

At block a set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be determined. For example the set of candidate answers could include one result which is the Baseball and Fishing in Paradise Plaza. The set of candidate answers could also include the Seaside Sundown Spa and Resort. In response to receiving the temporally related data the temporally related data may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. For example the dates March 14 26 may be a time when one of the resorts is booked full. In another case those dates may fall during spring break where the spa is very popular with spring breakers thus the spa may not be included in the set of candidate answers in that case. Use of the temporally related data may occur in conjunction with use of a specific corpus. In embodiments the specific corpus may be an almanac or newspaper journal etc. associated with a specific period of time. In embodiments the specific corpus may be temporally arranged or indexed.

At block at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be provided. For example Baseball and Fishing in Paradise Plaza could be provided selected displayed returned processed. In example embodiments Seaside Sundown Spa and Resort could also be provided. In embodiments the at least one candidate answer could include temporal information e.g. information associated with March 14 26 . The method concludes at block . Aspects of the method may have a positive impact on accuracy of search results number of search results or performance efficiencies.

At block it may be determined that a set of answer types includes a deducible answer type. The deducible answer type may be directly related to a temporally related answer type. In embodiments the deducible answer type may be inferable ascertainable able to be clarified logically formable or traceable. For example functioning of a home button on an mp3 player the home button may function differently if it were manufactured in 2005 versus 2010 note direct relation to the temporal aspect . In embodiments the deducible answer type may be associated with a particular characteristic e.g. major defining characteristic answer type at block related to the input question. In embodiments a major characteristic definition of the set of answer types may be determined. The major characteristic definition can include aspects of form shape size dimensions mass and or other visual parameters which characterize an item in looks or potentially characteristic traits of weight balance and center of mass fit ability of an item to physically interface interconnect with another item assembly such as in relationships of associativity tolerances etc. or function an action that an item is designed to perform which may be the reason for existence of the item including secondary tertiary applications . For example characteristics of a home button on an mp3 player e.g. the home button manufactured in 2005 may be square while the home button manufactured in 2010 may be circular . The determination regarding the set of answer types at block can be made by analyzing the input question. Analyzing can include natural language processing techniques. For example operation of a home button on an mp3 player can be identified through analysis.

At block a natural language clarifying question may be generated. The natural language clarifying question can be configured to stimulate clarifying data associated with the input question. Example clarifying questions include Is there something wrong with the physical button or Is there something wrong with the play music feature when using the home button Other example clarifying questions could refer to the physical button being stuck e.g. sticking may have been a characteristic of models manufactured in humid conditions during the summertime or software input e.g. a particular patch from 2011 failed to be implemented . In embodiments temporally related information such as the era of the mp3 player could be clarified e.g. 5 years old purchased a year ago brand new model freshly manufactured . At block a prompt may take place for clarifying data. The clarifying data can be associated with the input question. The prompt may ask a user the clarifying question. In embodiments major characteristic information association with the input question may be prompted for e.g. about the home button on the mp3 player . In response clarifying data may be provided e.g. by the user .

At block a set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type may be determined. For example solutions to malfunctioning buttons may be determined. In response to receiving the clarifying data the clarifying data or major characteristic information may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. For example knowing whether it appears to be a hardware or software matter may be of assistance e.g. unscrewing the back panel might be a solution to a hardware matter for models sold in the winter of 2008 while powering off the device might be a solution to a software matter for an operating system patched with code written on a particular day in 2011 . In another example knowing the era of the mp3 player could give better assistance in solving some problems e.g. a historical device versus a current device .

At block at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type may be provided. The provided candidate answer s could be displayed e mailed texted be shown via video via still image or via audio. In embodiments a phone call could be made with the set of candidate answers. The method concludes at block . Aspects of the method may have a positive impact on accuracy of search results number of search results or performance efficiencies.

At block it may be determined that a set of answer types includes a temporally related answer type. The determination regarding the set of answer types at block can be made by analyzing the input question. Pro football defense may be considered temporally related or time sensitive . Time duration spans may exist for such example as Historical 1950s 1990s Normal Yearly August February or Current This Year. 

At block a prompt may take place for temporally related data. The temporally related data can clarify the input question. For example Do you mean the best professional football defense this year current temporal type or Do you mean a specific year normal period temporal type or Did you mean over the history from 1950s to 1990s historical temporal type . In embodiments other clarifying questions may be asked. For example Did you mean best defense formation or Did you mean best defense team or Did you mean best defense style examples include Tampa 2 or Did you mean best defense based on tactics examples include blitzing man to man zone aggressive Any number of these questions may be asked in the form of a prompt including using a color coding scheme e.g. different shades of black and gray based on analysis of the input question .

At block a set of confidence ratings for at least a portion of a set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be determined. The set of confidence ratings may be based on information received from the prompting of block e.g. temporally related data . For example in embodiments normal period temporal type information referring to a specific year may be established based on a response received to the prompting of block . The normal period temporal type information can be utilized in determining confidence ratings. A corpus may be used with the temporally related data to determine what confidence scores should be generated. In response to receiving the temporally related data the temporally related data may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. The set of candidate answers may include those with the highest confidence ratings. For example the best defense may be the 1985 professional football champions in response to temporally related data being historical and perhaps only seeking champions . In embodiments confidence ratings may be based on polling data found conducted by for using particular people e.g. a poll of a group of pro football head coaches asking about the best defense . In embodiments the confidence ratings may be temporally related. For example more recent polling data may be given a higher confidence rating than polling data from a distant past.

At block at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be provided. The set of confidence ratings for at least the portion of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be used to provide select the at least one candidate answer. For example a still image of the coach of the 1985 professional football champions may be displayed along with the team name. Confidence ratings may eliminate teams from being displayed who won championships based on offensive prowess. The method concludes at block . Aspects of the method may have a positive impact on accuracy of search results number of search results or performance efficiencies.

Consistent with various embodiments client applications can include one or more components such as a search application and a mobile client . Client applications can operate on a variety of devices. Such devices include but are not limited to mobile and handheld devices such as laptops mobile phones personal or enterprise digital assistants and the like personal computers servers or other computer systems that access the services and functionality provided by QA system . For example mobile client may be an application installed on a mobile or other handheld device. In certain embodiments mobile client may dispatch query requests to QA system .

Consistent with various embodiments search application can dispatch requests for information to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can be a client application to QA system . In certain embodiments search application can send requests for answers to QA system . Search application may be installed on a personal computer a server or other computer system. In certain embodiments search application can include a search graphical user interface GUI and session manager . Users may enter questions in search GUI . In certain embodiments search GUI may be a search box or other GUI component the content of which represents a question to be submitted to QA system . Users may authenticate to QA system via session manager . In certain embodiments session manager keeps track of user activity across sessions of interaction with the QA system . Session manager may keep track of what questions are submitted within the lifecycle of a session of a user. For example session manager may retain a succession of questions posed by a user during a session. In certain embodiments answers produced by QA system in response to questions posed throughout the course of a user session may also be retained. Information for sessions managed by session manager may be shared between computer systems and devices.

In certain embodiments client applications and QA system can be communicatively coupled through network e.g. the Internet intranet or other public or private computer network. In certain embodiments QA system and client applications may communicate by using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Representational State Transfer REST calls. In certain embodiments QA system may reside on a server node. Client applications may establish server client communication with QA system or vice versa. In certain embodiments the network can be implemented within a cloud computing environment or using one or more cloud computing services. Consistent with various embodiments a cloud computing environment can include a network based distributed data processing system that provides one or more cloud computing services.

Consistent with various embodiments QA system may respond to the requests for information sent by client applications e.g. posed questions by users. QA system can generate answers to the received questions. In certain embodiments QA system may include a question analyzer data sources and answer generator . Question analyzer can be a computer module that analyzes the received questions. In certain embodiments question analyzer can perform various methods and techniques for analyzing the questions.

Consistent with various embodiments the output of question analyzer can be used by QA system to perform a search of one or more data sources to retrieve information to answer a question posed by a user. In certain embodiments data sources may include data warehouses information corpora data models and document repositories. In certain embodiments answer generator may be a computer module that generates answers to posed questions. Examples of answers generated by answer generator may include but are not limited to answers in the form of natural language sentences reports charts or other analytic representation raw data web pages and the like.

The QA system can include an analyzing module to analyze structural information of an input question. The analyzing may occur in response to parsing the input question by a parsing module . The analyzing may select at least a first portion of the input question as at least a first component. In embodiments structural information of the input question may be analyzed to select at least a second portion of the input question as at least a second component. The QA system can include a weighting module to weight the first component with a first weight. In embodiments the weighting module may include the query including the second component with a second weight. The weighting may be used in a query. The QA system can include a submitting module to submit the query to the QA system. The query may include the first component with the first weight. In embodiments the query submitted to the QA system may include the second component with the second weight.

The QA system can include a receiving module to receive an input question. The input question may be analyzed to determine the set of answer types using an answer type module . The answer type module may determine that a set of answer types includes a deducible answer type e.g. a temporally related answer type . The QA system can include a prompting module to prompt for clarifying data e.g. temporally related data . The clarifying data e.g. temporally related data can clarify the input question. The QA system can include a candidate answer module to determine a set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type e.g. the temporally related answer type . The clarifying data e.g. temporally related data may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. The QA system can include a providing module to provide select at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type e.g. the temporally related answer type .

In embodiments the QA system can include a confidence ratings module to determine a set of confidence ratings for at least a portion of a set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type e.g. the temporally related answer type . In embodiments determining that a set of candidate answers includes the deducible answer type e.g. the temporally related answer type can include determining a set of confidence ratings for at least a portion of the set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type e.g. the temporally related answer type . The set of confidence ratings for at least the portion of the set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type e.g. the temporally related answer type may be used to provide select at least one candidate answer of the set of candidate answers of the deducible answer type e.g. the temporally related answer type .

In embodiments a natural language clarifying question can be generated using a generating module . The natural language clarifying question may be configured to stimulate clarifying data e.g. temporally related data clarify the input question. In embodiments prompting for clarifying data e.g. temporally related data clarify the input question may happen occur in response to generating the natural language clarifying question. In embodiments prompting for clarifying data e.g. temporally related data clarify the input question can include prompting for clarifying data e.g. temporally related data absent from the input question. In embodiments prompting for temporally related data clarifying the input question may include providing a span statement configured to facilitate an association with the temporally related data.

In embodiments the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may have a temporal type as defined by a temporal type module . For instance the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a historical type. As another example the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a normal period type. For another illustration the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may include a current type. In embodiments one of these example temporal types may be selected. Certain embodiments may include a relationship between the span statement and at least one temporal type. In embodiments at least one specific feature of the set of candidate answers of the temporally related answer type may be designated as temporally dependent.

The QA system can include a major characteristic module to determine the set of answer types has a major characteristic definition. The major characteristic module may prompt for major characteristic information. The major characteristic information can be associated with the input question. The major characteristic information may be received by the QA system . The major characteristic module may determine the set of candidate answers. The major characteristic information may be used to determine the set of candidate answers. Aspects of the QA system may have a positive impact on accuracy of search results number of search results or performance efficiencies.

In an example implementation the QA system may proceed via a series of operations. First the Logical Answer Type LAT for a given question and the context may be found. Next a query may be used to find whether the LAT term is affected by temporal or major defining characteristics. Analysis of at least a part of the given question may happen to find if it is associated with historical normal or current time duration spans. Analysis of at least a part of the given question may happen to find if it is associated with major characteristics that may define the term independently of the others. If analysis finds an association a check of the context and or input question can occur to determine if temporal or major characteristic s were specified. In response to the context or input question missing the time duration a clarifying question can be formulated for time duration span s . Span statement template s may be utilized to prompt the user. Clarifying answer s can be included in the question context for reprocessing. In response to the context or input question missing a major defining characteristic a clarifying question can be formulated for major independent characteristic s based on a most important one first. Templates may prompt the user e.g. Did you mean . In response to receiving feedback e.g. an answer from the user it may be added as a defining characteristic to the LAT for answer type specificity. After that sequence a resulting question can be processed with the further context clarification s .

In the foregoing reference is made to various embodiments. It should be understood however that this disclosure is not limited to the specifically described embodiments. Instead any combination of the described features and elements whether related to different embodiments or not is contemplated to implement and practice this disclosure. Many modifications and variations may be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. Furthermore although embodiments of this disclosure may achieve advantages over other possible solutions or over the prior art whether or not a particular advantage is achieved by a given embodiment is not limiting of this disclosure. Thus the described aspects features embodiments and advantages are merely illustrative and are not considered elements or limitations of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim s .

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Embodiments according to this disclosure may be provided to end users through a cloud computing infrastructure. Cloud computing generally refers to the provision of scalable computing resources as a service over a network. More formally cloud computing may be defined as a computing capability that provides an abstraction between the computing resource and its underlying technical architecture e.g. servers storage networks enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Thus cloud computing allows a user to access virtual computing resources e.g. storage data applications and even complete virtualized computing systems in the cloud without regard for the underlying physical systems or locations of those systems used to provide the computing resources.

Typically cloud computing resources are provided to a user on a pay per use basis where users are charged only for the computing resources actually used e.g. an amount of storage space used by a user or a number of virtualized systems instantiated by the user . A user can access any of the resources that reside in the cloud at any time and from anywhere across the Internet. In context of the present disclosure a user may access applications or related data available in the cloud. For example the nodes used to create a stream computing application may be virtual machines hosted by a cloud service provider. Doing so allows a user to access this information from any computing system attached to a network connected to the cloud e.g. the Internet .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While the foregoing is directed to exemplary embodiments other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

