---

title: Tracking the influence of gift giving within a social network
abstract: Exemplary methods, apparatuses, and systems receive a gift giving event characteristic. A first set of one or more gift giving events within a first period of time that meet the received gift giving event characteristic are identified. Each of the gift giving events result in a narrative being published to a social network and are viewable by a group of one or more users of the social network. A second set of one or more gift giving events within a second period of time are identified. The second period of time is subsequent to the first period time. The second set of gift giving events are initiated by the group of one or more users. An amount of influence of a first user that initiated a gift giving event in the first set of gift giving events is determined based upon the second set of gift giving events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639862&OS=09639862&RS=09639862
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09639862
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140603
---
The various embodiments described herein relate to tracking the influence of gift giving events within social networking systems. In particular embodiments relate to tracking gift giving by users within a period of time following a gift giving event being published for the users to view within the social network.

Social networking systems enable users to interact with various objects represented within the social network. For example a social networking system allows users to designate other users or entities as connections or otherwise connect to or form relationships with other users or entities contribute and interact with their connections post media or commentary share links to external content use applications join groups list and confirm attendance at events invite connections and perform other tasks that facilitate social interaction. External applications also use the services of a social networking system to allow authenticated users to incorporate some of the above social interactions with use of the external applications. Similar interactions may also be a part of the user experience within other network services.

For example users of a social networking system are able to utilize the social networking system to give gifts to one another. Through a series of commands in a user interface within the social networking system a first user may select a second user to receive a gift select a gift add a personal message and complete the transaction. In response the social networking system facilitates the transaction with the corresponding merchant and publishes a narrative of the gift giving for one or more users to view. The narrative may be visible to the recipient of the gift. Alternatively the narrative may be published publicly or such that connections of the giver and or receiver of the gift are able to view the narrative.

Exemplary methods apparatuses and systems receive one or more gift giving event characteristics and or a time interval to use in determining how influential one or more gift giving events were within a social network. A first set of one or more gift giving events within a first period of time that meet the received gift giving event characteristic are identified. In one embodiment gift giving event characteristics describe the gifts and or the users giving gifts. For example the received characteristic s may seek to identify users of a particular geographic region gender age or other group affiliation or that give a particular number of gifts gifts of a minimum value gifts from a particular business etc. In one embodiment the identification of each user or gift meeting such characteristic s results in the creation of a graph or other data structure entry including the user giving the gift the characteristic s of or other data about the gift and the recipient of the gift.

Each of the gift giving events result in a narrative being published to a social network and are viewable by a group of one or more users of the social network. For example each user that initiated a gift giving event identified in the first set and the corresponding recipient user may have or otherwise be subject to a privacy setting indicating which users of the social network are able to view the published narrative. In one embodiment only direct connections or friends of the giver and or receiver are able to view the published narrative. In alternate embodiments the published narrative is publicly viewable limited to only the giver and receiver etc.

A second set of one or more gift giving events within a second period of time are identified. The second period of time is subsequent to the first period time and the second set of gift giving events are initiated by the group of one or more users that were able to view the published narrative s of the first set of gift giving events. In one embodiment additional sets of gift giving events are identified within subsequent time periods until no additional gift giving events are identified as being initiated by a user that was able to view the published narrative s of the gift giving event s of the last time period. For example another set of users that were able to view the gift giving events of the second set may in turn initiate gift giving events in a third time period and so on.

An amount of influence of a first user that initiated one or more gift giving events in the first set of gift giving events is determined based upon the second set of gift giving events and if applicable subsequent sets of gift giving events. In one embodiment the amount of influence includes a value of the identified gifts in the second set of gift giving events and given by one or more users that were able to view the narrative of the first user s gift giving event s . In another embodiment the amount of influence includes a number of identified gifts given by a second user in the second period time the second user being within the group of one or more users able to view the narrative of the gift giving event s initiated by the first user. In yet another embodiment the amount of influence includes a number of users that initiated gift giving events in the second period time that were able to view the narrative of the gift giving event initiated by the first user.

In one embodiment the first user is targeted for advertisements or gift giving narratives of other users based upon the determined amount of influence. For example if the first user s gift giving resulted in a particular number value or type of gifts being given in a chain of gift giving events by users in each subsequent time period the user is presented with advertising or gift giving narratives that may result in the first user initiating another gift giving event or chain of gift giving events.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description.

Embodiments described herein track gift giving events initiated by social networking users within a period of time following a gift giving event being published for those users to view within the social network. For example embodiments may create a directed graph or other data structure to identify the potential viral influence of gift giving events between users within the social network. As a result users that have been determined to have an estimated level of influence may be targeted for receiving narratives of other gift giving events or advertising or other prompting to encourage giving a gift. This targeting enables the social networking system to encourage gift giving among users that are likely to give a gift or influence others to give a gift while avoiding presenting these types of messages to users that are not likely to give a gift or to influence others to give a gift. Targeted messages are more likely to result in additional gifts being given while minimizing the use of messages that may otherwise be a distraction from the user experience.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an exemplary embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary refers to embodiments that serve simply as an example or illustration. Furthermore when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

In one embodiment a user device e.g. A may execute a user application e.g. A allowing a user A of the user device A to interact with the social networking system . For example the user application A may be a web browser application. In an embodiment the user application A is a special purpose client application e.g. Facebook for iPhone or iPad etc. and in an embodiment the user application A is the native operating system of the user device A such as Windows Mac OSX iOS or ANDROID which may utilize an Application Programming Interface API to directly interface with the social networking system through API request server .

The user devices A N are configured to communicate with the social networking system via a network or collection of networks such as the Internet a corporate Intranet a Virtual Private Network VPN a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a cellular network a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN or a combination of two or more such networks. The network may be wired wireless or a combination of both. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols.

In some embodiments the social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing user profiles associated with users A N and or other objects as well as connections between users and other users A N and or objects. Users A N using the social networking system may add connections to other users or objects of the social networking system to which they desire to be connected and may also interact with these other users or objects. The users of the social networking system are individuals e.g. humans and the objects may include entities such as businesses organizations universities manufacturers brands celebrities etc. concepts or other non human things including but not limited to a location an album an article a book a movie food etc.

Based on the stored data about users objects and the connections between the users and or objects the social networking system generates and maintains a social graph in a social graph store comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph represents a user or object that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a user identifies an additional user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and an additional node representing the additional user. The generated edge has a connection type indicating that the users are friends. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system adds removes or otherwise modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions. An exemplary social graph is described with reference to .

To provide these functionalities one embodiment of the social networking system includes an API request server a web server a message server an action logger and a set of data stores . This embodiment also includes within the data stores a social graph store an influence graph store a content store an action log a user profile data store and an object data store . In other embodiments the social networking system may include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Of course conventional components such as processors memories security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown in so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The social networking system allows its users A N to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user profiles in the user profile data store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile data store describes the users A N of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender relationship status hobbies location other preferences and the like. The user profile may also store information provided by the user. For example images videos and location data provided by the user may also be stored within the user profile. In other embodiments only textual data of the user is stored in the user profile and other data e.g. images videos etc. are stored in multimedia stores and associated with the user e.g. through associating a user identifier of the user with an image video identifier of the multimedia content . In certain embodiments images videos and posts by users including or depicting one or more other users of the social networking system may be tagged with identification information of those users. A user profile in the user profile data store may also maintain references to actions stored in the user profile or in an action log by the corresponding user performed on content items in a content store . A user may also specify one or more privacy settings which are stored in that user s user profile. Privacy settings limit information that the social networking system or other users of the social networking system are permitted to access from that user s user profile.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more user devices A N by accepting requests for from the user devices A N and or transmitting webpages or other web related content to the user devices A N such as image files audio files video files Java applets Flash XML JavaScript Cascading Style Sheets CSS and so forth. The web server in some embodiments is configured to utilize a set of one or more network interfaces to send and receive messages across the network . In some embodiments the web server additionally or alternately utilizes a message server e.g. a dedicated server end station a dedicated software application etc. to communicate with the user devices A N which is operative to send and or receive instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS Short Message Service messages or utilize any other suitable messaging technique.

In some embodiments a message sent by a user to another user by way of the social networking system can be viewed by other users of the social networking system for example by certain connections of the user directly connected users in the social graph other users more than one hop away in the social graph etc. receiving the message. An example of a type of message that can be viewed by other users of the social networking system besides the recipient of the message is commonly known as a post. In some embodiments a user can send a private message to another user that can only be retrieved by the other user.

When a user takes an action within the social networking system an action logger subject to any privacy settings and restrictions of the user and or social networking system may record the action in an action log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken on the social networking system the social networking system can add an entry for that action to the action log . In accordance with various embodiments the action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about those user actions. This information may be subject to privacy settings associated with the user. Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in a database or other data repository such as the action log . Examples of actions taken in the social networking system that may be stored in the action log include but are not limited to adding a connection to another other user sending a message to the other user reading a message from the other user viewing content e.g. posts images videos associated with or created by the other user attending an event posted by another user being tagged in posts or photos with by another user giving a gift to another user etc. As used herein giving a gift or initiating a gift giving event refers to a user initiating an online transaction to give a gift to another user e.g. by selecting a gift and a recipient and providing authorization to pay for the gift. In some embodiments actions like gift giving events are described in connection with more than one user and these actions may be associated with those users and stored in the action log .

Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including viewing posts commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device and other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include logging in to the social networking system commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician or brand by liking a page of the respective entity adding an event to a calendar joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track other user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on an external application e.g. website that are communicated to the social networking system . For example the social networking system may allow users to interact with external e.g. third party applications e.g. websites external storage and or external servers e.g. server end stations . The API request server allows external systems e.g. an external application of external server and or user applications A of user devices A N to access information from or transmit information to the social networking system by issuing API calls. The information provided by the social networking system may include user profile information or the connection information of users subject to the individual privacy settings of the user. For example a system e.g. external application may send an API request to the social networking system via the network to publish a story such as a narrative of a gift giving event on behalf of a user request information about a user after having been given permission to do so by the user upload a photograph on behalf of a user etc. API requests are received at the social networking system by the API request server which then processes the request by performing actions sought by the API requests determining appropriate responses to the API requests and transmitting back these responses back to the requesting application via the network .

The content store stores content items associated with user profiles such as images videos and or audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users or entities to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social network system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system .

The content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities included social graph store . An entity is a type of object that can be a non individual user of the social networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. However in some embodiments of the invention an entity may represent a celebrity or other well known individual and thus an entity object node for a person may exist in the social graph serving as a brand for that individual and perhaps having an associated page that other users may like and also a user node for that same person may also exist in the social graph serving as a representation for a personal account of that person . A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a user of the social networking system . For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s stored content from the object data store as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the page.

In the depicted embodiment social networking system includes an influence tracking module . In an alternate embodiment the influence tracking module is a part of the external server . For example the influence tracking module may be implemented by the external application . The influence tracking module tracks the influence or viral nature of actions performed by users of the social network. In one embodiment the influence tracking module determines the influence or viral nature of gift giving events as described in greater detail with respect to . For example the influence tracking module receives a gift giving event characteristic and identifies a first set of one or more gift giving events within a first period of time that meet the received gift giving event characteristic. Each of the identified gift giving events results in a narrative being published to a social network and viewable by a group of one or more users of the social network. In one embodiment the influence tracking module creates a directed graph or other data structure to store in the influence graph store representations of the user giving a gift the user receiving the gift and information about the gift. The influence tracking module identifies one or more subsequent sets of gift giving events within subsequent period s of time. The subsequent set s of gift giving events being initiated by the group of one or more users able to view narratives of the gifts given in the previous period of time. The influence tracking module adds each set of gift giving events to the influence graph store . As described in greater detail below the influence tracking module uses the data in the influence graph store to determine an amount of influence of a first user that initiated a gift giving event from the first set of gift giving events. In one embodiment the amount of influence is based upon the second set of gift giving events.

In one embodiment users are able to add demographic information to user profiles . In one embodiment for demographic information that has not been entered by a user a social network application generates an estimate based upon the user s actions connections and or actions of connections. For example User B has not entered an alma mater into user profile . A social network application may determine from User B s contacts activities cities of residence etc. that User B s likely alma mater is one or both of Brigham Young University and Harvard University. In one embodiment the user profiles include additional information such as relationships to other users places where the user has worked user interests etc.

In one embodiment users are able to provide feedback on actions of other users entities. As a result actions are also viewed as objects that may be acted upon. For example User B listened to music by the artist The Killers. As a result the social networking system publishes a narrative associated with User B e.g. in a newsfeed profile of User B etc. indicating that User B listened to music by the artist The Killers. In viewing a newsfeed profile of User B or another form of social networking system publication s the social networking system displays the narrative to User A. The social networking system then receives input from User A indicating that User A likes that User B listened to The Killers.

In one embodiment demographic data further includes a weight or score indicating an affinity between a user and an object. For example repeated user action with one object may indicate a stronger affinity for said object than another object with which the user has limited interaction. First degree connections e.g. the friendship between User A and User B may indicate a stronger affinity than second degree connections e.g. User A is friends with User B who is friends with User C creating a second degree connection between User A and User C. An indication that two users are married may indicate a stronger affinity than if two users are friends. Additionally temporal and geographic proximity of actions users are other exemplary indicators of affinity.

In one embodiment the influence tracking module utilizes user characteristics stored in the graph to identify gifts given by users meeting received gift giving event characteristics. In one embodiment users may select privacy settings to control what network service data is shared with whom the data is shared and or what data used for identifying gift giving events and or determining influence.

In one embodiment graph is constructed in response to receiving one or more characteristics of the action s or user s involved in the action s . For example the influence tracking module searches action log and identifies gift giving events that meet a received set of one or more characteristic s . Exemplary characteristics include characteristics of the user giving the gift or receiving the gift and characteristics of the gift itself. User characteristics include age gender education school affiliation occupation geographic location estimated income interests and interactions with objects within the social network etc. Gift characteristics include gift value gift quantity a brand or business associated with the gift specific gift items etc. As described above these characteristics may be stored in one or more of the data stores . In one embodiment a user s purchase history is included as a potential user characteristic. For example the user may have made a purchase of a good or service through the social network or using the social network to automatically fill a form to complete a transaction. As another example a vendor may share the purchase data with the social network.

Additionally the influence tracking module identifies gift giving events within particular time periods. In one embodiment the time period is set to a default value. Alternatively a time period is received in addition to or instead of gift giving characteristics. For example graph may represent gift giving events in which each gift within time period T has been identified as having a predetermined value or as being initiated by user that gave a gift to three users.

As a result of each of User A s gifts given a narrative is published to the social network e.g. indicating that User A gave gift to User D gift to User E and gift to User F. These published narratives are viewable by one or more users. For example the published narratives may be included as posts in a news feed or other publication format for User B to read upon accessing the social network. As an indication of the viral nature or other potential influence of User A s gift giving graph further includes gift giving events in a subsequent period of time T in which users that were able to view the published narrative s of User A giving one or more of gifts initiated one or more gift giving events of their own. For example in time period T User B was able to view the published narrative s of User A s gift giving events and User B gave gifts to User D User G and User H respectively. Given that a representation of User D was already included in time period T the gift giving event in which User B gave gift to User D is illustrated with a directed connection going back from time period T when the gift giving event was initiated to the representation of User D. In one embodiment time period T and time period T are equal in amount of time. Additionally while the use of able to view and like is used herein other embodiments include users actually viewing e.g. as determined by an amount of time actually displayed on a user device the published narrative s .

Similar to the description above as a result of each of User B s gifts given a narrative is published to the social network. In one embodiment as a further indication of the viral nature or other potential influence of User A s gift giving graph further includes gift giving events in a subsequent period of time T in which users viewed or were able to view the published narrative s of User B giving one or more of gifts initiated one or more gift giving events of their own. For example in time period T User C was able to view the published narrative s of User B s gift giving events and User C gave gifts to User H and User I respectively.

In one embodiment the influence tracking module continues adding gift giving events from subsequent time periods in similar manner until no additional gift giving events are identified as being initiated by a user that viewed or was able to view a gift giving event identified in a previous time period. For example if no users that were able to view the published narrative s of User C giving gift to User H or gift to User I gave a gift in the time period subsequent to time period T graph would stop searching for additional gift giving events that may represent the influence or viral nature of User A giving gifts.

At block the influence tracking module determines if any gift giving events were initiated in a subsequent time period by users that were able to view a published narrative of a gift giving event of the current set of gift giving events. For example as described with reference to User B was able to view the published narrative s of User A s gift giving events and User B gave gifts to User D User G and User H respectively in time period T.

At block if additional gift giving events were initiated within the subsequent time period the influence tracking module treats the subsequent time period as the current time period. For example as described with reference to User C was able to view the published narrative s of User B s gift giving events and gave gifts to User H and User I respectively. As a result the influence tracking module advances the current time period from time period T to time period T. At block the influence tracking module identifies the set of one or more additional gift giving events in the current time period and method returns to block to determine if there are any additional sets of gift giving events to identify in subsequent time periods.

When the influence tracking module determines that no additional gift giving events were initiated in a subsequent time period by users that were able to view a published narrative of a gift giving event of the current set of gift giving events at block the influence tracking module determines the amount of influence of one or more of the gift giving events or users based upon corresponding gift giving events in subsequent time periods. For example the influence tracking module may select a first user that initiated a gift giving event in the first time period. Alternatively the influence tracking module may select a first user that initiated a gift giving event in a subsequent time period.

In one embodiment determining an amount of influence of the first user includes summing averaging or otherwise utilizing the value of gifts given by one or more identified users in the chain of gift giving events originating with the first user. For example the amount of influence may include a value of gifts given by a second user in the second period time the second user being within the group of one or more users that were able to view a published narrative of the first user s gift giving event. As another example referring to graph in the determined amount of influence of User A may include summing averaging or otherwise utilizing the value of gifts given by User B and User C.

In another embodiment determining an amount of influence of the first user includes summing averaging or otherwise utilizing the number of gifts given by one or more identified users in the chain of gift giving events originating with the first user. For example the amount of influence may include a number of gifts given by a second user in the second period time the second user being within the group of one or more users that were able to view a published narrative of the first user s gift giving event. As another example referring to graph in the determined amount of influence of User A may include summing averaging or otherwise utilizing the number of gifts given by User B and User C.

In yet another embodiment determining an amount of influence of the first user includes summing averaging or otherwise utilizing the number of users giving gifts in the chain of gift giving events originating with the first user. For example the amount of influence may include a number of users identified as giving a gift in the second period time the user s being within the group of one or more users that were able to view a published narrative of the first user s gift giving event. As another example referring to graph in the determined amount of influence of User A may include summing the number users that initiated gift giving events in subsequent to User A s gift giving event. In such an example User B and User C are summed to a total of two.

At block a user is optionally targeted for an advertisement or published post including a gift giving narrative based upon the determined influence. For example if it is determined that the amount of influence for the first user is at or above a threshold value the user is targeted. In one embodiment the targeting includes the social networking system displaying or prioritizing the display of an advertisement. In one embodiment the advertisement is related to a previous gift given by the user. In one embodiment the advertisement includes a user interface object to enable or encourage the user to give another gift. In yet another embodiment the targeting includes the social networking system displaying or prioritizing the display of published narrative of a gift giving event. For example the social networking system may selectively present published narratives of a gift giving events to users with a threshold level of influence or identified as being a part of a viral gifting chain in an influence graph. In one embodiment users are targeted based upon a larger group characteristic associated with a likelihood of giving gifts or having a threshold level of influence. For example if users of a particular demographic category or other identifying characteristic collectively have a threshold level of influence those users collectively are targeted. In yet another embodiment the targeting includes presenting the user with a recommendation to purchase a gift for another user. For example if the first user has a threshold level of influence is friends within the social network with a second user and the social network determines that the second user has an event approaching that is associated with gifts such as a birthday the social networking system may present the first user with a recommendation to buy the second user a gift for the event.

In one embodiment the published narrative is an example of an identified gift giving event used in determining the influence of a user giving one or more gifts. For example the user John Smith or the gift a 25 Gift Card given to Jane Doe may be identified as meeting a gift giving characteristic.

In one embodiment the published narrative is an example of a gift giving event displayed in response to determined influence of gift giving within a social network. For example a user viewing a news feed may be presented with the published narrative generally or in a particular location in or near their news feed in response to determining that the viewing user has a threshold level of influence.

The published narrative also includes a user interface object to encourage a viewing user to give a gift. For example the user interface object may serve to encourage the viewing user to give a gift from the business from which the gift in the published narrative is sold to give a gift to the recipient of the gift in the published narrative or to give a gift in general. In alternative embodiment the user interface object is presented to the user in a different location than within the published narrative .

Data processing system includes memory which is coupled to microprocessor s . Memory may be used for storing data metadata and programs for execution by the microprocessor s . For example memory may include one or more of the data stores and or may store modules described herein. Memory may include one or more of volatile and non volatile memories such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a solid state disk SSD Flash Phase Change Memory PCM or other types of data storage. Memory may be internal or distributed memory.

Data processing system includes network and port interfaces such as a port connector for a dock or a connector for a USB interface FireWire Thunderbolt Ethernet Fibre Channel etc. to connect the system with another device external component or a network. Exemplary network and port interfaces also include wireless transceivers such as an IEEE 802.11 transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver e.g. 2G 3G 4G etc. or another wireless protocol to connect data processing system with another device external component or a network and receive stored instructions data tokens etc.

Data processing system also includes display controller and display device and one or more input or output I O devices and interfaces . Display controller and display device provides a visual user interface for the user. I O devices allow a user to provide input to receive output from and otherwise transfer data to and from the system. I O devices may include a mouse keypad or a keyboard a touch panel or a multi touch input panel camera optical scanner audio input output e.g. microphone and or a speaker other known I O devices or a combination of such I O devices.

It will be appreciated that one or more buses may be used to interconnect the various components shown in .

Data processing system is an exemplary representation of one or more of the user device external server and one or more components of social networking system or modules thereof e.g. influence tracking module described above described above. Data processing system may be a personal computer tablet style device a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with PDA like functionality a Wi Fi based telephone a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone a media player an entertainment system or devices which combine aspects or functions of these devices such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone in one device. In other embodiments data processing system may be a network computer server or an embedded processing device within another device or consumer electronic product. As used herein the terms computer device system processing system processing device and apparatus comprising a processing device may be used interchangeably with data processing system and include the above listed exemplary embodiments.

Additional components not shown may also be part of data processing system and in certain embodiments fewer components than that shown in may also be used in data processing system . It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the inventions may be embodied at least in part in software. That is the computer implemented method may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor or processing system executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as memory or other non transitory machine readable storage medium. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network not shown via network interface device . In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with the software instructions to implement the present embodiments. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software or to any particular source for the instructions executed by data processing system .

An article of manufacture may be used to store program code providing at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. Additionally an article of manufacture may be used to store program code created using at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. An article of manufacture that stores program code may be embodied as but is not limited to one or more memories e.g. one or more flash memories random access memories static dynamic or other optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of non transitory machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Additionally embodiments of the invention may be implemented in but not limited to hardware or firmware utilizing an FPGA ASIC a processor a computer or a computer system including a network. Modules and components of hardware or software implementations can be divided or combined without significantly altering embodiments of the invention.

As detailed herein some embodiments of a method embodiments of a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions which when executed by one or more processors in a processing device cause the processing device to perform a method and embodiments of an apparatus comprising a processing device wherein the processing device executes instructions that cause the apparatus to perform a method. The methods described herein include receiving a gift giving event characteristic identifying a first set of one or more gift giving events within a first period of time that meet the received gift giving event characteristic each of the gift giving events resulting in a narrative being published to a social network and viewable by a group of one or more users of the social network identifying a second set of one or more gift giving events within a second period of time the second period of time being subsequent to the first period time the second set of gift giving events being initiated by the group of one or more users and determining an amount of influence of a first user that initiated a gift giving event from the first set of gift giving events based upon the second set of gift giving events. Additionally some embodiments of the method further include one or more of 1 selecting an advertisement to be displayed to the first user that initiated the gift giving event based upon the determined amount of influence 2 selecting a gift giving narrative to be displayed to the first user that initiated the gift giving event based upon the determined amount of influence 3 the amount of influence including a value of gifts given by a second user in the second period time wherein the second user is within the group of one or more users and wherein the narrative of the gift giving event initiated by the first user is viewable by the second user 4 the amount of influence including a number of gifts given by a second user in the second period time wherein the second user is within the group of one or more users and wherein the narrative of the gift giving event initiated by the first user is viewable by the second user 5 the amount of influence including a number of users that initiated gift giving events in the second period time and to which the narrative of the gift giving event initiated by the first user is viewable 6 determining that the group of one or more users viewed published narratives of the first set of one or more gift giving events 7 the gift giving event characteristic describing a category of users giving gifts within the first period of time and or the gift giving event characteristic describing a type or number of gifts given by each user within the first period of time.

It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example the methods described herein may be performed with fewer or more features blocks or the features blocks may be performed in differing orders. Additionally the methods described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel with one another or in parallel with different instances of the same or similar methods.

