---

title: Settings management of an online service
abstract: Methods and systems of managing settings are described. According to various embodiments, a settings page corresponding to a user's settings on an online service may be caused to be displayed on a device. The settings page may comprise selectable category setting options for a setting category. The setting category may have a plurality of subcategories, and each subcategory may have its own selectable subcategory setting options. Each one of the category setting options may correspond to its own distinct configuration of subcategory setting options for its subcategories. A user input indicating a selection of one of the category setting options for the setting category may be received. The configuration of subcategory setting options corresponding to the selected one of the category setting options for the setting category may be applied to the user's settings on the online service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471945&OS=09471945&RS=09471945
owner: LINKEDIN CORPORATION
number: 09471945
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140905
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 956 228 filed on Jul. 31 2013 and entitled SETTINGS MANAGEMENT OF AN ONLINE SERVICE which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 860 146 filed on Jul. 30 2013 and entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS OF SETTINGS MANAGEMENT each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as if set forth herein.

The present application relates generally to data processing systems and in one specific example to methods and systems of managing settings for a user s membership on an online service.

Social network sites and other web sites allow a user to adjust certain settings. However current settings pages suffer from poor visibility and actionable ability on behalf of the user. A lot of settings that a user may want to adjust are not readily apparent or easily identifiable as to what these settings actually are and how they may affect the user. Therefore finding settings and determining their meaning can be difficult.

Example methods and systems of managing settings for a user s membership on an online service are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

The present disclosure provides several advancements in settings management. The techniques disclosed herein improve the visibility and actionability of settings. The settings and user choices of those settings disclosed herein may be changeable and fixable and therefore may evolve over time rather than being fixed after an initial configuration.

In some embodiments a method comprises determining a legal jurisdiction associated with a user of an online service and then causing by at least one processor a settings page corresponding to settings of the user on the online service to be displayed on a device. The settings page can comprise selectable category setting options for a setting category. The setting category can have a plurality of subcategories and each subcategory can have its own selectable subcategory setting options. Each one of the category setting options can correspond to its own distinct configuration of subcategory setting options for its subcategories and each subcategory setting option for each of the plurality of subcategories can be displayed and available for selection across all configurations of the category setting options. One of the selectable category setting options can be preselected for the user based on the legal jurisdiction associated with the user. A user input indicating a selection of one of the category setting options for the setting category can be received and the configuration of subcategory setting options corresponding to the selected one of the category setting options for the setting category can be applied to the user s settings on the online service.

In some embodiments the legal jurisdiction is determined based on one or more of an Internet Protocol IP address associated with the device a media access control MAC address associated with the device global positioning system GPS location information associated with the device or profile information of the user. However it is contemplated that the legal jurisdiction can be determined in other ways as well.

In some embodiments the online service comprises a social network service. However it is contemplated that other online services are also within the scope of the present disclosure including but not limited to content sharing sites e.g. photo or video sharing sites and any other online services that allow users to have a profile and present themselves or content to other users.

The user s settings may correspond to the user s membership on the online service. Such membership settings may relate to issues of participation visibility sharability and accessibility as well as a variety of other issues as well. The settings may apply to a user or to a piece of content or conversation. In some embodiments the settings may apply to a group of users where a single user may adjust the settings for the group of users e.g. one user deciding how public the activities and membership of the group should be within the online service .

In some embodiments the method further comprises receiving from the user an indication to assign a customized configuration of subcategory setting options for the subcategories of the setting category to one of the category setting options for the setting category and assigning the customized configuration of subcategory setting options for the subcategories of the setting category to the one of the category setting options for the setting category based on the indication from the user.

In some embodiments the settings page further comprises at least one graphical user interface element configured to enable the user to indicate the selection of one of the category setting options for the setting category. In some embodiments the graphical user interface element s comprise a slider.

In some embodiments the method further comprises causing to be displayed on the device a preview of an effect of at least one of the subcategory setting options being applied to the user s membership on the online service. The preview may be caused to be displayed on the device in response to a selection by the user of the at least one of the subcategory setting options and prior to the application of the at least one of the subcategory setting options to the user s membership.

In some embodiments the method may further comprise causing to be displayed on the device subsequent to the configuration of subcategory setting options being applied to the user s membership information regarding a difference between the configuration of subcategory setting options being applied to the user s membership and the configuration of subcategory setting options not being applied to the user s membership.

In some embodiments the method further comprises determining a configuration of subcategory setting options to be assigned to one of the category setting options based on configurations of corresponding subcategory setting options for other users of the online service. In some embodiments the other users are determined based on a similarity between profile information of their profiles with the corresponding profile information of the user s profile. In some embodiments the profile information comprises at least one of work related information skill related information interest related information activity related information and education related information. In some embodiments the method further comprises automatically assigning the determined configuration of subcategory setting options to the one of the category setting options.

In some embodiments a configuration of subcategory setting options or changes to subcategory setting options may be determined and recommended to a user based on the user s activity within the online service. For example if it is determined that a user has been searching for a new job online or has indicated that he or she is looking for a new job e.g. via a status setting on the user s profile a more public setting as opposed to a private setting may be determined and recommended for the user. In another example if it is determined that a user has a profession that requires discretion then a more private setting may be determined and recommended for the user. In yet another example if it is determined that a user is close to his or her graduation date then it may be assumed that the user is likely to be looking for a job and would prefer more public settings for job searches. In yet another example if it is determined that a user has set his or her relationship status as single the it may be determined that the user is more inclined to have less private settings than a user who just set his or her relationship status to engaged. It is contemplated that other examples of settings being based on user activity within the online service are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the method further comprises determining a proposed subcategory setting option for the user based on a corresponding subcategory setting option for other users of the online service causing a recommendation of the proposed subcategory setting option to be displayed on the device receiving a user input instructing application of the proposed subcategory setting option to the user s membership on the online service and applying the proposed subcategory setting option to the user s membership on the online service in response to receiving the user input instructing application.

In some embodiments the method further comprises receiving a situation based selection from the user the situation based selection indicating that the selected category setting option or at least one of the selected subcategory setting options should be used in a specific situation and using based on the situation based selection the selected category setting option or the at least one of the selected subcategory setting options for the user s membership during the specific situation. In some embodiments the specific situation is when the user s membership on the online service is being engaged via a mobile device. In some embodiments the specific situation is based on the user s location.

In some embodiments the setting category comprises privacy related settings or communications related settings. It is contemplated that other settings are also within the scope of the present disclosure including but not limited to general visibility related settings settings related to whether a user or group of users is open to new connections settings related to whether a user or group of users is open to commercial opportunities and settings related to whether a user or group of users is open to sharing data or content.

In some embodiments the method may further comprise receiving a search query from the user via a webpage of the online service determining one or more setting categories or setting subcategories related to the search query in response to receiving the search query and causing the determined one or more setting categories or setting subcategories related to the search query to be displayed to the user in response to determining the one or more setting categories or setting subcategories related to the search query. In some embodiments the method may further comprise causing selectable category setting options or selectable subcategory setting options corresponding to the determined one or more setting categories or setting subcategories related to the search query to be displayed to the user based on the search query.

The methods or embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as a computer system having one or more modules e.g. hardware modules or software modules . Such modules may be executed by one or more processors of the computer system. The methods or embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied as instructions stored on a machine readable medium that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform the instructions.

An Application Program Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . While the applications are shown in to form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the applications may form part of a service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present disclosure is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various applications could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various applications via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the applications via the programmatic interface provided by the API server .

In some embodiments the networked system may comprise functional components of a social network service. is a block diagram showing functional components of a social network service within the networked system in accordance with an example embodiment. As shown in the social network service may be based on a three tiered architecture consisting of a front end layer an application logic layer and a data layer . In some embodiments the modules systems and or engines shown in represent a set of executable software instructions and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the instructions. To avoid obscuring the inventive subject matter with unnecessary detail various functional modules and engines that are not germane to conveying an understanding of the inventive subject matter have been omitted from . However one skilled in the art will readily recognize that various additional functional modules and engines may be used with a social network system such as that illustrated in to facilitate additional functionality that is not specifically described herein. Furthermore the various functional modules and engines depicted in may reside on a single server computer or may be distributed across several server computers in various arrangements. Moreover although a social network service is depicted in as a three tiered architecture the inventive subject matter is by no means limited to such architecture. It is contemplated that other types of architecture are within the scope of the present disclosure.

As shown in in some embodiments the front end layer comprises a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests.

In some embodiments the application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer . In some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various services and features of the social network service. For instance the ability of an organization to establish a presence in the social graph of the social network service including the ability to establish a customized web page on behalf of an organization and to publish messages or status updates on behalf of an organization may be services implemented in independent application server modules . Similarly a variety of other applications or services that are made available to members of the social network service may be embodied in their own application server modules .

As shown in the data layer may include several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information may be stored for example in the database . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

The profile data may also include information regarding settings for members of the social network service. These settings may comprise various categories including but not limited to privacy and communications. Each category may have its own set of settings that a member may control.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects may be stored and maintained within a social graph database .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behavior indicating that the member is a likely job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as a job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates.

In some embodiments the social network service provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to a content hosting platform of the social network service that facilitates presentation of activity or content streams maintained and presented by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. a smartphone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

The data and information e.g. profile data and member activity and behaviour data in the data layer may be accessed used and adjusted by the settings management module as will be described in more detail below in conjunction with . Although the settings management module is referred to herein as being used in the context of a social network service it is contemplated that it may also be employed in the context of any website or online services including but not limited to content sharing sites e.g. photo or video sharing sites and any other online services that allow users to have a profile and present themselves or content to other users. Additionally although features of the present disclosure are referred to herein as being used or presented in the context of a web page it is contemplated that any user interface view e.g. a user interface on a mobile device or on desktop software is within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to enable a user to adjust multiple settings within a single category of settings via a single selection of a setting option. illustrates a user interface for a settings page on a social network website in which one category setting option has been selected for a single setting category in accordance with an example embodiment. The settings information and options referred to on the settings page may correspond to a user s membership e.g. profile account etc. on the social network website. Examples of settings categories include but are not limited to privacy and communications. It is contemplated that other settings categories are also within the scope of the present disclosure. Each setting category may have its own set of one or more subcategories such that these subcategories fall within and are related to that setting category . For example in the setting category Your Privacy has a plurality of subcategories Activity Broadcasts Activity Feed What Others See Your Connections Profile Visibility and Other Profiles Viewed Box.

Each subcategory may have its own set of selectable subcategory setting options . The user may configure the setting of a subcategory by selecting one of its subcategory setting options . In one example a user may configure the setting for the What Others See subcategory . As seen in the subcategory setting options from which the user may choose are Name Photo and Headline Name and Headline and Anonymous. Other examples are provided as well. In the user may select the subcategory setting options via selectable radio buttons. However it is contemplated that other graphical user interface GUI elements may also be employed to enable a user to select subcategory setting options .

Each setting category may have selectable category setting options . The user may configure the setting of a category by selecting one of its category setting options . In the user may select the category a category setting option using a GUI slider which may comprise an indicator that may be moved along a track bar in order to change from one category setting option to another. Employment of the GUI slider may help users visualize the meaning of the different category setting options . However it is contemplated that other GUI elements may also be employed to enable a user to select category setting options .

Each category setting option may correspond to its own distinct configuration of subcategory setting options . For example in the category setting option of Default for setting category Your Privacy corresponds to the following configuration of subcategory setting options for their respective subcategories 

In some embodiments the user can change the settings for multiple subcategories without having to make each individual change e.g. multiple selections of subcategory setting options across each subcategory by making a single selection of a different category setting option . For example in the user has changed the setting of the Your Privacy setting category to Private using the slider . As a result the following configuration of subcategory setting options is reflected 

By assigning a configuration of multiple subcategory setting options to a single category setting option the settings management module may provide the user with a more intuitive way of changing settings. In the example of the Your Privacy setting category in the user does not have to go through each subcategory to figure out the most appropriate subcategory setting option for a particular situation. If the user wants more privacy then the user can make a single selection of the Private category setting option . If the user does not want much privacy at all but rather more openness associated with his or her membership then the user can make a single selection of the More Open category setting option . If the user wants privacy that falls between private and more openness then the user can make a single selection of the Default category setting option .

In some embodiments selections made by the user may be implemented automatically without the user having to provide confirmation. In some embodiments the selections made by the user may be implemented automatically only after the user has provided confirmation such as via a selectable Save Changes to Settings button or the like.

In some embodiments the user may customize the configuration of subcategory setting options that will correspond to a particular category setting option . For example in if the user wants the Private category setting option to correspond to the Connections subcategory setting option for the Activity Feed subcategory the user may customize this configuration accordingly. For example the user may select the Connections subcategory setting option for the Activity Feed subcategory while the setting category is set to the Private category setting option . In some embodiments this change or customization may be implemented automatically without the user having to provide confirmation. In some embodiments this change or customization may be implemented automatically only after the user has provided confirmation such as via a selectable Save Customized Settings button or the like.

In some embodiments the settings management module is configured to enable the user to customize the configurations of the subcategory setting options for the corresponding category setting option as described above. This customization may be performed during the initial setup of the user s membership on the social network service or anytime thereafter.

In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to enable the user to configure his or her settings so that certain category setting options or certain subcategory setting options are used in certain situations while other category setting options or subcategory setting options are used in other situations. For example the user may prefer to have one configuration of settings for situations where the user s membership on the social network service is being engaged via a mobile device e.g. a smart phone tablet computing devices and a different configuration of settings for situations where the user s membership on the social network service is being engaged via a non mobile device e.g. a desktop computer . The user may also prefer to have a configuration of settings be used based on the location of the user and or people who are attempting to engage the user s membership on the social network service. For example the user may want to have a More Open privacy setting be applied for people that are in the same room or at the same conference while having a Private privacy setting for every other location scenario. The settings management module may provide users with selection options configured to implement such situation based setting options.

In some embodiments the settings management module is configured to automatically determine and set the subcategory setting options . This automatic determination and application of the subcategory setting options may be performed during the initial setup of the user s membership on the social network service or anytime thereafter. In one example the settings management module may automatically determine and apply the initial subcategory setting options for a user. The user may subsequently make changes to these settings. The settings management module may then automatically determine better settings for the user and either implement those settings or recommend them to the user. In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to automatically determine the subcategory setting options and then provide a recommendation of those determined subcategory setting options to a user for confirmation of their application. The settings management module may then apply those determined subcategory setting options in response to an indication of confirmation from the user.

In some embodiments the settings management module is configured to determine one or more setting options to be applied based on the settings of other users of the social network service information on which may be stored in one or more databases e.g. database in . This determination may be made based on similarities of profile information between the other users and the user for whom the setting options are being determined. In some embodiments the profile information may comprise at least one of work related information e.g. job title employer skill related information e.g. certifications interest related information e.g. what user is interested in activity related information e.g. history of use of social network service and education related information e.g. education level type of degree major . In one example if the user is a CEO of a large company the settings management module may determine that certain subcategory setting options should be applied based on the subcategory setting options of other CEO s of large companies.

The settings management module may be configured to determine one or more subcategory setting options for a user. The settings management module may also be configured to determine a configuration of subcategory setting options to be assigned to one of the category setting options for the user. The settings management module may also be configured to determine a category setting option for the user. In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to automatically implement the determined subcategory setting option s the determined configuration of subcategory setting options and or the determined category setting option without the user s approval. In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to provide a recommendation of the determined subcategory setting option s the determined configuration of subcategory setting options and or the determined category setting option to the user so that the user may decide whether or not to implement the recommendation. illustrates a recommendation of a proposed setting option Name and Headline instead of Anonymous being provided.

In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to provide information describing or explaining the currently selected subcategory setting options . In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to provide a preview of an effect of at least one of the subcategory setting options being applied to the user s membership on the social network service. The information and or the preview may be provided in response to a selection by the user of the corresponding subcategory setting option . As seen in the user is provided with a preview of what other people will see when viewing that user s profile. For example under the Default category setting option other people will be able to see the user s name and job title e.g. John Smith Programmer at LinkedIn with an empty picture slot whereas under the Private category setting option other people will only be able to see that the user is a user of the social network service e.g. LinkedIn User with an empty picture slot.

In some embodiments the settings management module may also be configured to provide subsequent to the configuration of subcategory setting options being applied information regarding a difference between the current and previous setting options for a setting category or a setting subcategory . illustrates a user interface in which information regarding the effect of changing a setting related to communications is displayed in accordance with an example embodiment. In this example the user made a change to his or her communications settings on May 11 that resulted in the user receiving a message regarding career opportunities. Here this information is provided next to the message in the user s inbox . It is contemplated that the information explaining the effect of a change in a user s settings may be provided in a variety of ways other than that shown in .

It is contemplated that certain issues may arise regarding settings of an online service depending on what laws are applicable. Such laws can be based on the location of the user and can vary depending on the applicable country territory state region county or city as well as other distinguishing geographic identifications. For example laws regarding privacy settings in the United States may be different from laws regarding privacy settings in Germany. Similarly the laws regarding communication settings in California may be different from laws regarding communication settings in Michigan. Accordingly the settings management module can be configured to customize the settings page for a legal jurisdiction associated with the user. This customization feature for legal jurisdictions can help the online service comply with the appropriate laws of geographic locations in which its services are being accessed.

The settings management module can determine a legal jurisdiction associated with the user. The legal jurisdiction can be determined based on one or more of an IP address associated with the user or a device of the user a MAC address associated with the user or a device of the user GPS location information associated with the user or a device of the user or profile information of the user e.g. address information that has been stored as part of the user s profile information . However it is contemplated that the legal jurisdiction can be determined in other ways as well.

The settings management module can use the determined jurisdiction to determine what setting categories to present to the user what category setting options to present to the user what subcategories to present to the user or what subcategory setting options to present to the user. In some embodiments the settings management module is configured to select one of the category setting options as a preselected default setting to apply to the user s settings and to present to the user based on the legal jurisdiction associated with the user. In this manner a default category setting option can be determined and preselected for the user. Additionally a configuration of default subcategory setting options for that default category setting option can be determined and preselected for the user. For example in the category setting option of Default can be set as a preselected default setting for the user based on a determined legal jurisdiction of the user. Additionally the configuration of the subcategory setting options e.g. Public Connections Name and Headline shown in for the category setting option of Default can also be set as preselected default settings for the category setting option of Default for that user based on the determined legal jurisdiction of the user. The same category setting option of Default can have a different configuration of preselected default subcategory setting options based on a change in the determined legal jurisdiction of the same user e.g. the same user is accessing the online service from a different jurisdiction or based on a different user in a different legal jurisdiction accessing the online service.

The settings management module may also be configured to enable a user to search for settings. illustrates a user interface in which settings may be searched in accordance with an example embodiment. In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to receive a search query from the user e.g. via a search box and search button on a webpage of the social network service determine one or more setting categories or setting subcategories related to the search query in response to receiving the search query and provide the setting categories or setting subcategories related to the search query to the user in the form of search results. In some embodiments the settings management module may be configured to also provide selectable category setting options or selectable subcategory setting options corresponding to the setting categories or setting subcategories related to the search query to the user in the form of search results. In the user has submitted activity as the search query in order to view only activity related settings. It is contemplated that the setting search feature may be implemented in ways other than those shown in . In some embodiments the search feature may be used to filter setting categories or subcategories as the user types in the search query. For example the search results may change as the user is entering the characters of the search query so that the user does not need to complete the entire search query and click a button in order to begin the search or filtering operation.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

