---

title: Silicon carbide devices having smooth channels
abstract: Methods of forming silicon carbide power devices are provided. An n silicon carbide layer is provided on a silicon carbide substrate. A p-type silicon carbide well region is provided on the n silicon carbide layer. A buried region of p silicon carbide is provided on the p-type silicon carbide well region. An n region of silicon carbide is provided on the buried region of p silicon carbide. A channel region of the power device is adjacent the buried region of p silicon carbide and the n region of silicon carbide. An n region is provided on the channel region and a portion of the n region is removed from the channel region so that a portion of the n region remains on the channel region to provide a reduction in a surface roughness of the channel region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09142663&OS=09142663&RS=09142663
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09142663
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140910
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application No. 13 470 600 filed May 14 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 859 366 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 424 960 filed Apr. 16 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 188 483 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 136 057 filed May 24 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 528 040 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in their entirety.

The present invention was developed with Government support under contract number FA8650 04 2 2410 awarded by the United States Air Force. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to methods of fabricating power devices and the resulting devices and more particularly to power devices and methods of fabricating silicon carbide power devices.

Power devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. Modern power devices are generally fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material. One widely used power device is the power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET . In a power MOSFET a control signal is supplied to a gate electrode that is separated from the semiconductor surface by an intervening insulator which may be but is not limited to silicon dioxide. Current conduction occurs via transport of majority carriers without the presence of minority carrier injection that is used in bipolar transistor operation. Power MOSFETs can provide an excellent safe operating area and can be paralleled in a unit cell structure.

As is well known to those having skill in the art power MOSFETs may include a lateral structure or a vertical structure. In a lateral structure the drain gate and source terminals are on the same surface of a substrate. In contrast in a vertical structure the source and drain are on opposite surfaces of the substrate.

One widely used silicon power MOSFET is the double diffused MOSFET DMOSFET which is fabricated using a double diffusion process. In these devices a p base region and an n source region are diffused through a common opening in a mask. The p base region is driven in deeper than the n source. The difference in the lateral diffusion between the p base and n source regions forms a surface channel region. An overview of power MOSFETs including DMOSFETs may be found in the textbook entitled by B. J. Baliga published by PWS Publishing Company 1996 and specifically in Chapter 7 entitled the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Development efforts in power devices have also included investigation of the use of silicon carbide SiC devices for power devices. Silicon carbide has a wide bandgap a lower dielectric constant a high breakdown field strength a high thermal conductivity and a high saturation electron drift velocity compared to silicon. These characteristics may allow silicon carbide power devices to operate at higher temperatures higher power levels and with lower specific on resistance than conventional silicon based power devices. A theoretical analysis of the superiority of silicon carbide devices over silicon devices is found in a publication by Bhatnagar et al. entitled 6 3 IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices Vol. 40 1993 pp. 645 655 . A power MOSFET fabricated in silicon carbide is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 421 to Palmour entitled Power MOSFET in Silicon Carbide and assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Silicon Carbide power devices are also described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 107 142 to Suvorov et al. entitled Self Aligned Methods of Fabricating Silicon Carbide Power Devices by Implantation and Lateral Diffusion and U.S. Pat. No. 6 100 169 to Suvorov et al. entitled Methods of Fabricating Silicon Carbide Power Devices by Controlled Annealing both of which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

Notwithstanding these potential advantages it may be difficult to fabricate power devices including power MOSFETs in silicon carbide. For example as described above the double diffused MOSFET DMOSFET is generally fabricated in silicon using a double diffusion process wherein the p base region is driven in deeper than the n source. Unfortunately in silicon carbide the diffusion coefficients of conventional p and n type dopants are small compared to silicon so that it may be difficult to obtain the required depths of the p base and n source regions using acceptable diffusion times and temperatures. Ion implantation may also be used to implant the p base and the n source. See for example 6 by Shenoy et al. IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 18 No. 3 March 1997 pp. 93 95 . However it may be difficult to control the depth and lateral extent of ion implanted regions. Moreover the need to form a surface channel surrounding the source region may require the use of two separate implantation masks. It may then be difficult to align the p base and the source regions to one another thereby potentially impacting the device performance.

Furthermore performing a series implants and implant activation anneals may result in step bunched surfaces across the channel of the MOSFET which may diminish device performance in terms of for example increased on resistance and reduced reliability.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide methods of forming silicon carbide power devices. An n silicon carbide layer is provided on a silicon carbide substrate. A p type silicon carbide well region is provided on the n silicon carbide layer. A buried region of p silicon carbide is provided on the p type silicon carbide well region. An n region of silicon carbide is provided on the buried region of p silicon carbide. A channel region of the power device is adjacent the buried region of p silicon carbide and the n region of silicon carbide. An n region is provided on the channel region and a portion of the n region is removed from the channel region so that a portion of the n region remains on the channel region to provide a reduction in a surface roughness of the channel region.

In further embodiments of the present invention a portion of the n region may be removed using a chemical mechanical polishing CMP process that removes a portion of the n region from the channel region. The CMP process may remove all but from about 1000 to about 5000 of the n region. A portion of the n region that is from about 2.0 to about 3.0 times a depth of the surface roughness of the channel region may be removed. In certain embodiments of the present invention about 1500 of the n region remains on the channel region after the CMP process.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the reduction in the surface roughness may be a reduction in a root mean square RMS surface roughness of from at least about 28 to less than about 1.0 . A sacrificial oxide layer having a thickness of from about 100 to about 1000 may be formed on the remaining portion of the n region on the channel region and removed. The RMS surface roughness may be further reduced by the formation and removal of the sacrificial oxide layer from less than about 1.0 to about 0.70 .

In some embodiments of the present invention the n region may be an n epitaxial layer that is grown on the channel region to a predetermined thickness such that a portion of the n epitaxial layer remains on the channel region after removal of a portion of the n epitaxial layer. In certain embodiments of the present invention the predetermined thickness of the n epitaxial layer may be from about 1500 to about 5000 . The CMP process may be followed by selectively etching the n region such that the n region is removed from the n region.

In further embodiments of the present invention the p type silicon carbide well region may be formed by implanting p type dopants in the n silicon carbide layer. The buried region of p silicon carbide may be formed by implanting p type dopants in the p type silicon carbide well region. The n region of silicon carbide may be formed by implanting n type dopants in the p type silicon carbide well region on the buried region of p silicon carbide. The implanted dopants may be activated by exposing the implanted dopants to a temperature of greater than about 1600 C.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the p type silicon carbide well region may be a p type epitaxial layer on the n silicon carbide layer. The buried regions of p silicon carbide may be formed by implanting p type silicon carbide dopants on the p type silicon carbide well region. The n regions of silicon carbide may be formed by implanting n type silicon carbide dopants in the p type silicon carbide well region on the buried region of p silicon carbide.

In some embodiments of the present invention an n type region of silicon carbide may be formed in the p type silicon carbide well region adjacent the channel region. The channel region may be defined between the buried region of p silicon carbide and the n type region of silicon carbide. The n type region of silicon carbide may be a Junction Field Effect Transistor JFET region of the silicon carbide power device.

In further embodiments of the present invention an n type region of silicon carbide may be formed in the p type silicon carbide well region adjacent the channel region. The channel region may be defined between the buried region of p silicon carbide and the n type region of silicon carbide. The n region may only remain on the channel region.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the substrate may be an n substrate which serves as a drift region of the silicon carbide power device. An n drain region may be provided on the substrate opposite the n silicon carbide layer. The n drain region may be an implanted region or an epitaxial region. In certain embodiments of the present invention the silicon carbide power device may be a Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET .

Some embodiments of the present invention provide methods of forming silicon carbide power devices. A silicon carbide epitaxial region is grown on a channel region of the power device. A portion of the silicon carbide epitaxial region is mechanically removed such that a remaining portion of the silicon carbide epitaxial region provides a reduction in a surface roughness of the channel region.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the reduction in the surface roughness may be a reduction in the RMS surface roughness of from at least about 28 to less than about 1.0 . In certain embodiments of the present invention a sacrificial oxide layer may be formed on the silicon carbide epitaxial region and the sacrificial oxide layer may be removed to provide a further reduction in the surface roughness of the channel region. The RMS surface roughness may be further reduced by the formation and removal of the sacrificial oxide layer from less than about 1.0 to about 0.70 .

Some embodiments of the present invention provide power devices including a p type conductivity well region and a buried p conductivity region in the p type conductivity well region. An n conductivity region is provided on the buried p conductivity region. A channel region of the power device is provided adjacent the buried p conductivity region and n conductivity region the channel region of the power device having a root mean square RMS surface roughness of less than about 1.0 .

In further embodiments of the present invention the p type conductivity well region may be a p type silicon carbide well region the buried p conductivity region may be a buried region of p silicon carbide in the p type silicon carbide well region and the n conductivity region may be an n region of silicon carbide on the buried region of p silicon carbide.

In still further embodiments of the present invention a sacrificial oxide layer may be provided on a surface of the channel region having a thickness of from about 100 to about 1000 wherein the RMS surface roughness of the channel region may be reduced to about 0.70 after formation of the sacrificial oxide layer.

In some embodiments of the present invention an n silicon carbide region may be provided on the channel region of the power device. The presence of the n silicon carbide region may provide a reduction in a surface roughness of the channel region. The reduction in the surface roughness may be a reduction in a root mean square RMS surface roughness of from at least about 28 to less than about 1.0 .

In further embodiments of the present invention the n region of silicon carbide on the channel region may have a thickness of from about 1000 to about 5000 and in some embodiments about 1500 .

In still further embodiments of the present invention the n region may be a remaining portion of an n epitaxial layer on the channel region after removal of a removed portion of the n epitaxial layer. The n epitaxial layer may have a thickness of from about 1500 to about 6000 before removal of the removed portion thereof.

In some embodiments of the present invention an n type region of silicon carbide may be provided in the p type silicon carbide well region adjacent the channel region the channel region may be defined between the buried region of p silicon carbide and the n type region of silicon carbide and the n region may only remain on the channel region.

In further embodiments of the present invention the device may further include a silicon carbide substrate. The p type silicon carbide well region may be provided on the silicon carbide substrate. An n silicon carbide layer may be provided between the silicon carbide substrate and the p type silicon carbide well region. The p type silicon carbide well region may be an implanted region of p type silicon carbide in the n silicon carbide layer. The buried region of p silicon carbide may be an implanted region of p silicon carbide in the p type silicon carbide well region and the n region of silicon carbide may be an implanted n type region in the p type silicon carbide well region on the buried region of p silicon carbide.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the device may further include a silicon carbide substrate. The p type silicon carbide well region may be provided on the silicon carbide substrate. An n silicon carbide layer may be provided between the silicon carbide substrate and the p type silicon carbide well region. The p type silicon carbide well region may be a p type epitaxial layer on the n silicon carbide layer the buried region of p silicon carbide may be an implanted region of p type silicon carbide in the p type silicon carbide well region and the n region of silicon carbide may be an implanted region of n type silicon carbide in the p type silicon carbide well region on the p region of silicon carbide.

In some embodiments of the present invention an n type region of silicon carbide may be provided in the p type silicon carbide well region adjacent the channel region the channel region may be defined between the buried region of p silicon carbide and the n type region of silicon carbide and the n type region of silicon carbide may be a Junction Field Effect Transistor JFET region of the power device.

In further embodiments of the present invention the device may further include a silicon carbide substrate. The p type silicon carbide well region may be provided on the silicon carbide substrate. An n silicon carbide layer may be provided between the silicon carbide substrate and the p type silicon carbide well region the substrate may be an n substrate which serves as a drift region of the power device. The device may further include an n drain region on the substrate opposite the n silicon carbide layer. The n drain region may be an implanted n drain region in the n substrate or an epitaxial n drain region on the n substrate.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the power device may be a Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET .

Some embodiments of the present invention provide Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors MOSFETs including a channel region having a root mean square RMS surface roughness of less than about 1.0 .

Further embodiments of the present invention provide power devices including a p type conductivity well region and a buried p conductivity region in the p type conductivity well region. An n conductivity region is provided on the buried p conductivity region and a channel region of the power device is adjacent the buried p conductivity region and n conductivity region. An n conductivity region is provided on the channel region of the power device the presence of the n conductivity region providing a reduction in a surface roughness of the channel region

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another element component region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another element as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending on the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a binary change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to a particular polarity conductivity type for various layers regions. However as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the polarity of the regions layers may be inverted to provide an opposite polarity device.

Some embodiments of the present invention prevention provide power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors MOSFETs and or other power devices that may include doped regions of silicon carbide. As is known to those of skill in the art doped regions of silicon carbide may be formed through epitaxial growth and or through implantation. For example a p type region of silicon carbide may be formed through epitaxial growth in the presence of a p type dopant or through implantation of p type dopants in an undoped p type or n type epitaxial layer. The structure that results from epitaxial growth differs from that that results from implantation. Thus the terms epitaxial region and implanted region structurally distinguish differing regions of silicon carbide and may be used herein as a recitation of structural characteristics of the regions of silicon carbide and or as recitations of methods of forming such regions of silicon carbide.

While embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to MOSFETs embodiments of the present invention may be used in other devices such as laterally diffused MOSFETs LDMOSFETs Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors IGBTs or other such MOS based devices as well as high voltage devices such as Schottky and PiN diodes without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Surface morphology is a concern in the development of commercial silicon carbide SiC power devices such as SiC power MOSFETs. The series of implantation steps and implant activation anneals may result in step bunched surfaces across a channel of the device. The steps created on the surface of the device may be several hundred angstroms which may cause increased on resistances and reduced reliability of the device. Methods according to some embodiments of the present invention may provide channel regions having reduced surface roughness so as to improve overall device performance. In particular methods of fabricating power devices according to some embodiments of the present invention may provide an additional n region on the channel region. In particular an n region may be formed on the channel region of the device a portion of which is removed such that a remaining portion of the n region on the channel region provides a reduced surface roughness of the channel region. Thus at least a portion of the step bunched surface may be removed from the channel region to provide a smoother channel region i.e. a channel region with reduced surface roughness. In some embodiments the removal process is performed using a chemical mechanical polishing process that may remove a portion of or from about 1200 to about 1400 of the n region from the channel region. The remaining portion of the n region may provide a reduction in a root mean square RMS surface roughness of the channel region of from about at least 28 to less than about 1.0 as will be discussed further below with respect to .

Referring now to a cross section illustrating embodiments of a vertical power MOSFET according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. It will be understood by those having skill in the art that the vertical silicon carbide MOSFETs are generally replicated in a unit cell. Such unit cells are illustrated between lines and or lines and For ease of illustration a two unit cell MOSFET will be described however as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art additional unit cells may be incorporated into a MOSFET along one direction or along two generally orthogonal directions without departing from the scope of the present invention.

As illustrated in a MOSFET according to some embodiments of the present invention includes an n monocrystalline silicon carbide substrate for example 4H silicon carbide. An n silicon carbide layer is provided on a first face A of the substrate . As used herein p or n refer to regions that are defined by higher carrier concentrations than are present in adjacent or other regions of the same or another layer or substrate. Similarly p or n refer to regions that are defined by lower carrier concentrations than are present in adjacent or other regions of the same or another layer or substrate.

In some embodiments of the present invention an n substrate could serve as an n drift layer of the device. In these embodiments of the present invention an n drain region may be provided on a second face B of the n substrate. The n drain region may be provided by ion implantation or epitaxial growth without departing from the scope of the present invention.

A p type silicon carbide region is provided on the n silicon carbide layer and may provide a p well region of the MOSFET. It will be understood that the p well region may be an epitaxial region or an implanted region without departing from the scope of the present invention.

A buried region of p silicon carbide is provided in the p well region beneath an n region of silicon carbide that is also provided in the p type region . The n region may provide a source region of the device. Adjacent and spaced apart from the n source region is an n type silicon carbide region that extends through the p well region to the n silicon carbide layer . It will be understood that in embodiments of the present invention where the p well region is an epitaxial layer the n type silicon carbide region may be termed a Junction Field Effect Transistor JFET region of the device.

The n type silicon carbide region may provide a portion of an n type channel region . A surface of the n type silicon carbide region may include unwanted steps of up to several hundred angstroms each which may cause increased on resistances and reduced reliability of the device. Furthermore a surface of the p type region between the n type silicon carbide region and the buried region of p silicon carbide may also include these unwanted steps. Thus as illustrated in an n region according to some embodiments of the present invention may be provided on the n type silicon carbide region and the p type region which may form a channel region of the device. In particular an n type epitaxial layer may be regrown on the n type silicon carbide region the p type region and other surfaces of the structure and selectively removed such that a portion of the n region remains on the n type silicon carbide region and the p type region of the device but is removed from the n source regions as will be discussed further below with respect to .

Regrowth is discussed in detail in commonly assigned United States Patent Application Publication No. US 2004 0211980 entitled Silicon Carbide Power Devices With Self Aligned Source And Well Regions and Methods Of Fabricating Same filed on Apr. 24 2003 United States Patent Application Publication No. US 2004 0119076 entitled Vertical JFET Limited Silicon Carbide Power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors and Methods of Fabricating Vertical JFET Limited Silicon Carbide Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors filed on Oct. 30 2003 and United States Patent Application Publication No. US 2002 0038891 entitled Silicon Carbide Power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors Having a Shorting Channel and Methods of Fabricating Silicon Carbide Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors Having a Shorting Channel filed Jun. 24 2001 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in their entirety.

The presence of the n region on the n type silicon carbide region and the p type region may provide a reduction in a surface roughness of the channel region a combination of the n type silicon carbide region the p type region and the remaining portion of the n region . In other words the n region may fill in some of the peaks and valleys on the surface of the n type silicon carbide region and the p type region to provide a smoother interface between the channel region and the gate insulating layer discussed below . According to some embodiments of the present invention the channel region may have a root mean square RMS surface roughness of less than about 1.0 . Thus according to some embodiments of the present invention a reduction in the RMS surface roughness of from at least about 28 to less than about 1.0 may be obtained which will be discussed further below with respect to . According to some embodiments of the present invention an optional sacrificial oxide layer not shown may be provided on a surface of the channel region and subsequently removed. The sacrificial oxide layer may have a thickness of from about 100 to about 1000 for example 500 . The formation and removal of the sacrificial oxide layer may further reduce the RMS surface roughness of the surface of the channel region to about 0.70 .

A gate insulating layer of a suitable dielectric material such as silicon dioxide SiO extends over the channel region and to the n source regions . A gate contact is provided on the gate layer opposite the channel region including the n type silicon carbide region the p type region and the n region . Source contact is provided between the n source regions and a drain contact is provided on a second face B of the substrate opposite the p type region .

It will be understood that although embodiments of the present invention are discussed with respect to the MOSFET structure illustrated in embodiments of the present invention are not limited to this configuration. For example in some embodiments of the present invention the MOSFET may include a hybrid well structure as described in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 873 394 filed Jun. 22 2004 entitled Silicon Carbide Devices With Hybrid Well Regions And Methods Of Fabricating Silicon Carbide Devices With Hybrid Well Regions the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

Referring now to processing steps in the fabrication of power devices for example MOSFETs according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. As illustrated in an n epitaxial layer is formed on an n silicon carbide substrate for example a 4H silicon carbide substrate. The n layer may have a thickness of from about 5 to about 200 m and a doping to provide a carrier concentration of from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cm. In particular embodiments of the present invention the n layer is about 12 m thick and is doped to provide a carrier concentration of about 5 10cm.

A p type layer is provided on the n epitaxial layer . As discussed above the p type layer may provide a p well region of the device. The p type layer may be an epitaxial region or an implanted region without departing from the scope of the present invention. In particular in embodiments of the present invention where the p type layer is an implanted region p type silicon carbide dopants may be implanted in the n layer to provide the p type layer . In embodiments of the present invention where the p type layer is an epitaxial layer the p type layer may be grown on the n layer . The p type layer may have a thickness of from about 0.5 to about 3 m and a doping to provide a carrier concentration of from about 2 10cmto about 5 10cm. In particular embodiments of the present invention the p type layer is about 0.5 m thick and is doped to provide a carrier concentration of about 1 10cm. As further illustrated in a mask layer is formed on the p type layer and patterned to form openings corresponding to the source regions and the buried p type regions of the device.

As illustrated in the buried p type regions and the source regions may be formed by patterning a mask layer having openings corresponding to the location of the source regions . The buried p type regions are formed by ion implantation of p type dopants using the patterned mask . The buried p type regions may extend to and in some embodiments into the drift region for example n layer . The p type dopant may be for example aluminum or other suitable p type dopant. In certain embodiments of the present invention the p type region has a thickness of less than about the thickness to which the region may be formed for example from about 0.2 m to about 1 m. In particular embodiments of the present invention the buried p type regions extend from a depth of about 0.2 m to a depth of about 0.7 m from the surface of the p type layer . Furthermore the p type region may be doped to provide a carrier concentration of from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cm.

As illustrated in the source regions are formed by implanting n type dopants into the p type layer utilizing the patterned mask . The n type dopant used for n type implants may be for example nitrogen and or phosphorus however other n type dopants may also be used. The n type source regions may extend a distance of from about 0.2 m to about 0.3 m into the p type layer. The n type source regions may be doped to provide a carrier concentration sufficient to allow for formation of a good ohmic contact. As used herein the term ohmic contact refers to contacts where an impedance associated therewith is substantially given by the relationship of Impedance V I where V is a voltage across the contact and I is the current at substantially all expected operating frequencies i.e. the impedance associated with the ohmic contact is substantially the same at all operating frequencies and currents In particular embodiments of the present invention the n type source regions extend to a depth of about 0.2 m into the p type layer and are doped to provide a carrier concentration of at least from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cm.

While embodiments of the present invention are described herein using the same windows in the patterned mask for implantation of both the p type regions and the source regions in some embodiments of the present invention different size windows may be used to compensate for straggle in the implantation.

As illustrated in the mask may be removed and an n type silicon carbide region of the device may be provided in the p well region . The n type silicon carbide region may be an implanted region or an epitaxial region without departing from the scope of the present invention. In embodiments of the present invention where the n type silicon carbide region is an implanted region a second mask layer may be patterned to have opening corresponding to the n type silicon carbide region of the device as illustrated in . It will be understood that in embodiments of the present invention where the p well region is an epitaxial layer the n type silicon carbide region may be termed a Junction Field Effect Transistor JFET region of the device.

As illustrated in the n type silicon carbide region may be formed by implanting n type dopants in the p type layer utilizing the patterned mask so as to form the n type silicon carbide region that extends through the p type layer to the drift region for example the n type epitaxial layer . Any suitable n type dopants may be used. In some embodiments of the present invention nitrogen is used as the n type dopant.

When the device is turned on the n type region can provide a path from the MOS channel to the lightly doped drift region allowing electrons to flow from source regions to drain regions. In the off state this n channel region may be depleted of electrons from the reverse biased pn junction which is formed on both sides of the channel region. The pn junctions on both sides of the channel region may shield the MOS region from high electric fields at off state which may result in a higher device reliability compared to trench devices such as UMOSFETs.

As illustrated in the cap layer may be removed and an n silicon carbide epitaxial region may be formed on the channel region of the device. A depth of the n silicon carbide epitaxial region may be controlled so that only a portion of the n region may be removed from the channel region in a subsequent processing step. In some embodiments of the present invention the n silicon carbide region may have a thickness of from about 1500 to about 6000 and a carrier concentration of about 5 10cm.

As illustrated in a portion of the n region is removed. The portion of the n region that remains on the n type silicon carbide region and the p type region may define the channel region of the device. The remaining portion of the n region may have a thickness of from about 1000 to about 5000 . In some embodiments of the present invention the remaining portion of the n region may have a thickness of from about 1500 . The presence of the remaining portion of the n region on the channel region may provide a reduction in a surface roughness of the channel region at an interface between the n region and the gate insulator which will be discussed further below with respect to .

It will be understood that that the channel region may be defined by the remaining portion of the n region and the portion of the p well between the n type silicon carbide region and the buried p type regions and the source regions . Accordingly the n region may only remain on the portions of the p well between the n type silicon carbide region and the buried p type regions and the source regions and not on the n type silicon carbide region without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In some embodiments of the present invention a chemical mechanical polishing CMP process may be performed that removes a portion of the n region from a surface of the channel region . In certain embodiments of the present invention the CMP process may remove a portion of the n region that is from about 2.0 to 3.0 times a depth of the surface roughness of the channel region . It will be understood that any conventional CMP process may be used as the CMP process discussed herein without departing from the scope of the present invention. However the process discussed herein does not remove the entire n region . Typically implanted regions have a thickness of a few thousand angstroms and conventional CMP processes remove several microns of film during the CMP process to obtain the desired result. However as will be understood by those having skill in the art removal of several microns of film from the structure of would remove all of the implanted region rendering the device non functional.

Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention use a CMP process that removes a portion of the n region leaving a portion of the n region remaining on the channel region . For example in some embodiments of the present invention the CMP process may be performed for less than about 3 hours for example from about half an hour to about an hour. In other words after the CMP process from about 1000 to about 5000 of the n region may remain on the channel region of the device. Thus the remaining portion of the n region may be from about 1000 to about 5000 . The remaining portion of the n region on the n type silicon carbide region and the p well region become part of the channel region i.e. the remaining portion of the n region may fill in the peaks and valleys on a surface of the n type silicon carbide region and the p well region . As further illustrated in a mask may be provided on the remaining portion of the n region and the n region may be patterned according to the mask removing portions of the n region on the source regions as illustrated in . As discussed above in some embodiments of the present invention the n region may only remain on the p well region between the n type silicon carbide region and the source regions and the buried p type regions .

As discussed above providing the n region on the n type region and the p well region may provide a reduction in the surface roughness between the n region and the gate insulator . For example as illustrated in the surface of the n type silicon carbide region and the p well region may have many peaks and valleys after the anneal that activates the implanted regions. These peaks and valleys several 100 angstroms may cause suboptimal performance of the device. After the forming of the n region on the n type silicon carbide region and the p well region and the removal of a portion of the n region from the n type silicon carbide region and the p well region according to some embodiments of the present invention many of the peaks and valleys may be removed by the presence of the remaining portion of the n region as illustrated in . In particular the root mean square RMS surface roughness of the channel region may be reduced from at least about 28 in to less than about 1.0 in according to some embodiments of the present invention. Furthermore in some embodiments of the present invention an optional sacrificial oxide layer not shown may be formed on a surface of the channel region and removed. The formation and removal of the sacrificial oxide layer may further reduce the RMS surface roughness to about 0.70 as illustrated in .

As illustrated in a layer of insulating material may be deposited on the device so as to provide a gate insulating material. In some embodiments of the present invention the insulating material may be formed as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 610 366 entitled Method of NO annealing an oxide layer on a silicon carbide layer U.S. Pat. No. 6 767 843 entitled Method of NO growth of an oxide layer on a silicon carbide layer and or United States Patent Application Publication No. US2002 0102358A1 entitled Method offabricating an oxide layer on a silicon carbide layer utilizing an anneal in a hydrogen environment the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if set forth in their entirety. In certain embodiments of the present invention the insulating material may be formed as described in Improved Inversion Channel Mobility for 4H SiC MOSFETs Following High Temperature Anneals in Nitric Oxide to Chung et al. the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. As further illustrated in a gate contact may be formed by forming a metal contact on the gate insulating material . Suitable gate contact materials include but are not limited to aluminum polysilicon and molybdenum. Furthermore as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art a multi layered gate contact may also be used.

As is illustrated in contact holes may be formed in the insulating material and ohmic contacts may be formed in the contact holes to provide source contacts . Similarly an ohmic contact may be formed on the substrate . Suitable ohmic contact materials include but are not limited to nickel titanium alloy and aluminum. The deposited metal contacts may then be annealed at a high temperature ranging from about 500 C. to about 1200 C. An overlayer metal may also be deposited on the contacts for example to facilitate connection to the device.

It will be understood by those having skill in the art that the order of steps in may be changed. Thus for example the n type silicon carbide region may be formed before forming the n regions without departing from the scope of the present invention. Similarly the buried p regions may be formed either before or after formation of the n regions or the n type silicon carbide region . Similarly the contacts may be formed by for example depositing and patterning a metal layer and then the insulating layer provided and openings in the insulating layer formed to the contacts . Accordingly the present invention should not be construed as limited to the exact sequence of operations described herein but is intended to encompass other sequences of fabrication that will become apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure.

Referring now to a chart illustrating a comparison of Drain Voltage V vs. Drain Current A for conventional devices and devices fabricated using methods according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. As illustrated in the drain currents of MOSFETs fabricated according to some embodiments of the present invention are higher than conventional MOSFETS at relative drain voltages.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

