---

title: Mitigation of traffic congestion in dual connectivity systems
abstract: Technology for mitigating traffic congestion is disclosed. A master evolved node B (MeNB) can identify service data unit (SDU) packets that are dropped in a retransmission buffer of a packet data convergence protocol (PDCP) layer of the MeNB. The MeNB can create a list of packet data unit (PDU) packets that are dropped at the PDCP layer of the MeNB, wherein the PDU packets that are dropped are associated with the SDU packets. The MeNB can send the list of dropped PDU packets, from the PDCP layer of the MeNB to the PDCP layer of a user equipment (UE), to enable the UE to distinguish between delayed PDU packets and the dropped PDU packets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560684&OS=09560684&RS=09560684
owner: Intel IP Corporation
number: 09560684
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 883 127 filed Sep. 26 2013 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical uplink control channel PUCCH can be used to acknowledge that data was received. Downlink and uplink channels or transmissions can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In 3GPP LTE Release 12.0 user equipments UEs may connect to more than one cell site simultaneously. For example the UE may connect to a master evolved node B MeNB and at least one secondary evolved node B SeNB simultaneously. When the UE connects to two cells the UE may receive data bearers from both cells at substantially the same time. The multiple bearers may be sent to the UE based on a location of an S1 U termination and location of the bearer split. In one example the S1 U may be terminated at the MeNB and the bearer split may be performed at a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB.

The dual connectivity architectures described in are further discussed in 3GPP Technical Review TR 36.842 Version 12.0.0.

In one configuration the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive packets e.g. PDCP SDU packets or PDCP PDU packets from higher layers in the downlink. The higher layers may include the IP layer or application layer in the MeNB. The PDCP layer may temporarily store the packets in a retransmission buffer. In other words the packets may be temporarily stored in the retransmission buffer until the packets are ready to be communicated i.e. retransmitted in downlink to the UE or the SeNB. For example the packets in the retransmission buffer may be communicated from the MeNB to the UE via a MeNB radio link. As another example the packets in the retransmission buffer may be communicated from the MeNB to the SeNB via a SeNB radio link.

In one example the retransmission buffer may have a limited capacity. Therefore the retransmission buffer may discard the packets according to a discard counter. In other words if the packet has been in the retransmission buffer for a predefined period of time the packet may be flushed to clear space in the retransmission buffer for additional packets.

A potential overflow may be detected at the retransmission buffer in the downlink when the retransmission buffer is filling up with packets. In other words the number of packets in the retransmission buffer may be approaching a defined maximum. Alternatively the potential overflow may be detected at a reordering buffer in the uplink when the reordering buffer is filling up with packets. The potential overflow may result from delay or capacity constraints of an X2 interface between the MeNB and the SeNB the MeNB radio link between the MeNB and the UE and or the SeNB radio link between the SeNB and the UE. In other words the packets may be stalled at the retransmission buffer when the delay or capacity constraints are preventing the packets from being communicated to the UE and or SeNB. In another example the packets may be stalled at the retransmission buffer due to problems in the RLC or MAC layers of the SeNB.

When the packets remain in the retransmission buffer for a period of time that exceeds the discard counter e.g. due to the delay or capacity constraints the packets may be removed from the retransmission buffer. However some of the packets may be unnecessarily flushed in the retransmission buffer. In other words these packets need to be communicated to the UE but were stalled in the retransmission buffer for longer than the discard counter because of the delay or capacity constraints. Therefore the discard counter may be extended based on a type of traffic associated with the packets. As a result flushing of the retransmission buffer due to slow delivery of the packets to the UE and or SeNB may be avoided. For example the discard counter may be extended when the packets are related to delay tolerant traffic i.e. no time constraints . On the other hand the discard counter may not be extended when the packets are related to delay sensitive traffic such as voice over internet protocol VoIP or video streaming. Therefore the packets in the retransmission buffer may not be discarded as quickly i.e. the discard counter is extended when the packets are related to delay tolerant traffic and alternatively the packets at the retransmission buffer may be discarded according to the discard counter when the packets are related to delay sensitive traffic.

In one example the PDCP mechanism in the UE and MeNB is dependent on COUNT to prevent replay attacks. The COUNT may be maintained at the UE and MeNB and can be incremented for every transmitted PDCP PDU. To provide robustness against lost packets least significant bits of the COUNT are carried as PDCP sequence numbers SNs . A length of the PDCP SN may be increased to multiple bits thereby extending the discard counter in the retransmission buffer.

In one configuration the number of packets e.g. PDCP SDU packets or PDCP PDU packets in the retransmission buffer in the PDCP layer of the MeNB may increase due to latency of the X2 connection. For example the X2 connection between the MeNB and the SeNB may experience delay or capacity constraints and therefore the packets may be stalled in the retransmission buffer of the MeNB. The PDCP layer in the MeNB may drop one or more packets to mitigate the potential overflow at the retransmission buffer. In addition the PDCP layer in the MeNB may drop one or more packets in the retransmission buffer in order to indicate to upper layers such as the internet protocol IP layer or application layer to slow down a rate of packet transmissions to the PDCP layer in the MeNB. In other words the dropping of packets at the retransmission buffer may indicate an overflow buffer status to the IP layer and in response the IP layer can send fewer packets to the PDCP layer in the MeNB. As a result the number of packets stored in the retransmission buffer may be reduced and overflow at the retransmission buffer can be avoided.

In addition when the DL discard timer expires at the MeNB some of the PDCP packets in the retransmission buffer may have been transmitted as PDCP PDUs to the RLC layer and to lower layers in the MeNB. As an example when the DL discard timer expires there are five PDCP packets in the retransmission buffer e.g. A B C D and E . The packets A and B may have been already sent to the RLC layer but the ACKs have not yet been received. If the packets A and B are discarded then the UE may be notified that packets A and B were discarded.

When the PDCP layer of the MeNB drops one or more packets from the retransmission buffer the PDCP layer in the UE does not know which packets are dropped. Rather when the UE does not receive the packets on time from the MeNB the UE may believe that the packets are delayed the packets were lost over the air and or the packets are going to be retransmitted to the UE from the MeNB. Therefore the UE may unnecessarily wait for the packets without realizing that the packets have been dropped at the MeNB. In one configuration the PDCP layer in the MeNB may send a list of packets e.g. PDCP PDUs to the PDCP layer in the UE wherein the list of packets indicate packets that were dropped at the MeNB. In addition the list of packets may include an identifier associated with each of the dropped packets. As an example when the UE reassembles the packets the UE may know that packets X and Y were dropped at the MeNB and that the UE should not wait for these packets to arrive at the UE. Thus the list of packets may enable the UE to distinguish between dropped packets and delayed packets.

In one configuration the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive a plurality of packets from higher layers e.g. IP layer or application layer . The PDCP layer in the MeNB may calculate a downlink split ratio i.e. the percentage of packets that are to be served directly to the UE using the MeNB link and the percentage of packets that are to be served to the UE via the SeNB using the SeNB link . As an example the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive ten packets. The PDCP layer may push six of the ten packets i.e. 60 to the UE via the SeNB and the remaining four packets i.e. 40 may be pushed down through the MeNB link to the UE. In other words the 60 40 relationship may describe the downlink split ratio at the PDCP layer in the MeNB. When the retransmission buffer in the MeNB is approaching a predefined capacity e.g. due to X2 interface delay MeNB radio link delay SeNB radio link delay the MeNB may recalculate the downlink split ratio in order to reduce an amount of time to deliver the packets to the UE.

As an example the number of packets in the retransmission buffer may be steadily increasing and the X2 connection between the MeNB and the SeNB is known to be delayed and lossy. Therefore in order to optimize packet flow to the UE the MeNB may change the 60 40 split ratio to 10 90. In other words the PDCP layer in the MeNB may push one out of ten packets i.e. 10 to the UE via the SeNB and the remaining nine packets i.e. 90 may be pushed down through the MeNB link to the UE. Therefore the MeNB may send fewer packets to the UE via the SeNB and more packets directly to the UE when the X2 connection between the MeNB and the SeNB is delayed.

In one configuration the PDCP layer in the UE may also include a retransmission buffer. The retransmission buffer may temporarily store packets to be communicated to the SeNB and or MeNB. In the uplink a discard counter associated with the retransmission buffer may be extended based on a traffic type associated with the packets. For example the discard counter may be extended when the packets are related to delay tolerant traffic i.e. no time constraints . On the other hand the discard counter may not be extended when the packets are related to delay sensitive traffic such as voice over internet protocol VoIP or video streaming. Therefore premature flushing of the packets in the retransmission buffer of the UE due to capacity and latency constraints in the links e.g. MeNB radio link SeNB radio link may be avoided when the discard counter is extended at the UE.

In one example the retransmission buffer in the PDCP layer of the UE may drop one or more packets. In the uplink the retransmission buffer may drop the packets when overflow at the retransmission buffer is imminent. The dropping of the packets may indicate an overflow buffer status to the IP layer which can result in the IP layer and application layer reducing a data rate to the retransmission buffer. In other words the IP layer may send fewer packets to the retransmission buffer when the IP layer recognizes a potential overflow at the retransmission buffer. The PDCP layer in the UE may send a list of packets to the PDCP layer in the MeNB wherein the list of packets includes dropped packets at the UE. Therefore the MeNB may identify which packets are dropped at the UE and which packets are delayed at the UE.

In addition when the UL discard timer expires at the UE some of the PDCP packets in the retransmission buffer may have been transmitted as PDCP PDUs to the RLC layer and to lower layers in the UE. As an example when the UL discard timer expires there are five PDCP packets in the retransmission buffer e.g. A B C D and E . The packets A and B may have been already sent to the RLC layer but the ACKs have not yet been received. If the packets A and B are discarded then the MeNB may be notified that packets A and B were discarded.

In one configuration the UE may send a buffer status and or a request for a modified uplink UL split ratio to the PDCP layer in the MeNB in response to detecting the potential overflow at the retransmission buffer in the UE. As an example in the uplink the PDCP layer in the UE may send 50 of packets to the MeNB via the MeNB radio link and 50 of packets to the SeNB via the SeNB radio link. However the SeNB radio link may be congested and as a result the packets to be communicated via the SeNB radio link can be stalled at the retransmission buffer. The PDCP layer in the MeNB may determine the modified UL split ratio and send the modified UL split ratio to the UE. The UE may send packets to the MeNB and the SeNB according to the modified UL split ratio. For example the PDCP layer in the UE may send 80 of packets to the MeNB via the MeNB radio link and 20 of packets to the SeNB via the SeNB radio link according to the modified split ratio. In other words the UE may send fewer packets to the SeNB due to the latency in the SeNB radio link. When the latency is substantially gone the UE may again request the MeNB to modify the UL split ratio.

In the uplink the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive PDCP PDUs from the UE either directly from the UE or via the SeNB . The PDCP headers in the PDCP PDUs may be treated and a COUNT may be determined. A PDCP PDU counter known as COUNT may be used as input to the security algorithms. The COUNT value is incremented for each PDCP PDU during a radio resource control RRC connection. The COUNT has a length of 32 bits in order to allow an acceptable duration for the RRC connection. During the RRC connection the COUNT value is maintained at the MeNB by counting each received PDCP PDU. Deciphering may be applied to the PDCP PDUs. The PDCP layer may perform header decompression and store the PDCP PDUs in a reordering buffer. In addition the PDCP PDUs may be converted to PDCP SDUs. The PDCP SDUs may be communicated in the uplink from the PDCP layer to higher layers in the MeNB e.g. IP layer or application layer . In other words the PDCP SDUs may be arranged in a correct order before the PDCP PDUs are sent to the IP layer.

In the uplink the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive the M PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the MeNB. In addition the PDCP layer may receive the S PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the MeNB. The PDCP layer in the MeNB may treat the PDCP headers of the M PDCP PDUs. In addition the PDCP layer in the MeNB may treat the PDCP headers of the S PDCP PDUs. The PDCP layer may combine the bearers and determine a COUNT. In other words the M PDCP PDUs and the S PDCP PDUs may be combined into PDCP PDUs. The PDCP PDUs may be converted to PDCP SDUs. Deciphering may be applied to the PDCP SDUs. The PDCP layer may perform ROHC decompression and store the PDCP SDUs in a reordering buffer wherein the reordering buffer assembles the PDCP SDUs in a correct order. The PDCP SDUs may be communicated in the uplink from the PDCP layer to higher layers in the MeNB such as the IP layer or application layer.

In the uplink the PDCP layer in the UE may receive the M PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the UE. In addition the PDCP layer in the UE may receive the S PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the UE. The PDCP layer in the UE may combine the bearers and determine a COUNT. In other words the M PDCP PDUs and the S PDCP PDUs may be combined into PDCP PDUs. The PDCP PDUs may be converted into PDCP SDUs. Deciphering may be applied to the PDCP SDUs. The PDCP layer may perform ROHC decompression and store the PDCP SDUs in a reordering buffer wherein the reordering buffer assembles the PDCP SDUs in a correct order. In the uplink the PDCP SDUs may be communicated from the PDCP layer to higher layers in the UE.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a master evolved node B MeNB operable to mitigate traffic congestion as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to identify service data unit SDU packets that are dropped in a retransmission buffer of a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer of the MeNB as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to create a list of packet data unit PDU packets that are dropped at the PDCP layer of the MeNB wherein the PDU packets that are dropped are associated with the SDU packets as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to send the list of dropped PDU packets from the PDCP layer of the MeNB to the PDCP layer of a user equipment UE to enable the UE to distinguish between delayed PDU packets and the dropped PDU packets as in block .

In one example dropping the PDU packets can indicate an overflow buffer status to an internet protocol IP layer wherein the IP layer reduces a packet rate to the PDCP layer at the MeNB in response to the overflow buffer status. In another example the PDU packets are dropped in response to detecting a potential overflow at a retransmission buffer of the MeNB. In yet another example the potential overflow is due to delay or capacity constraints on at least one of an X2 link between the MeNB and a secondary evolved node B SeNB a radio link between the MeNB and the UE or a radio link between the SeNB and the UE.

In one example computer circuitry can be further configured to recalculate a downlink DL split ratio when the potential overflow occurs at the retransmission buffer the DL split ratio defining a first percentage of PDU packets to be transmitted to the UE via the SeNB and a second percentage of PDU packets to be transmitted directly to the UE. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to detect a potential overflow at a retransmission buffer of the MeNB wherein SDU packets are stored in the retransmission buffer for retransmission in downlink to one of the UE or a secondary evolved node B SeNB detect a type of traffic associated with the SDU packets and extend a discard counter at the retransmission buffer based in part on the type of traffic associated with the SDU packets in order to avoid premature flushing of the SDU packets at the retransmission buffer.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to extend the discard counter at the retransmission buffer when the type of traffic associated with the SDU packets is delay tolerant traffic. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to not extend the discard counter at the retransmission buffer when the type of traffic associated with the SDU packets is delay sensitive traffic. In one configuration extending the discard counter at the retransmission buffer includes increasing a length of a packet data convergence protocol sequence number PDCP SN to include multiple least significant bits. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to communicate with a secondary evolved node B SeNB via an X2 link in a dual connectivity architecture.

Another example provides a method for mitigating traffic congestion as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method can include the operation of detecting a potential overflow at a retransmission buffer of a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer of a user equipment UE wherein packet data unit PDU packets are stored in the retransmission buffer for retransmission in downlink to one of a master evolved node B MeNB or a secondary evolved node B SeNB as in block . The method can include the operation of detecting a type of traffic associated with the PDU packets as in block . The method can include the operation of extending a discard counter at the retransmission buffer based in part on the type of traffic associated with the PDU packets in order to avoid premature flushing of the PDU packets at the retransmission buffer as in block .

In one example the method can include extending the discard counter at the retransmission buffer when the type of traffic associated with the PDU packets is delay tolerant traffic. In addition the method can include determining to not extend the discard counter at the retransmission buffer when the type of traffic associated with the PDU packets is delay sensitive traffic.

In one example the method can include identifying service data unit SDU packets that are dropped in the retransmission buffer of the PDCP layer of the UE wherein the SDU packets are dropped in response to detecting the potential overflow at the retransmission buffer creating a list of packet data unit PDU packets that are dropped at the PDCP layer of the UE wherein the PDU packets that are dropped are associated with the SDU packets and sending the list of dropped PDU packets from the PDCP layer of the UE to the PDCP layer of the MeNB to enable the MeNB to distinguish between delayed PDU packets and the dropped PDU packets. In one configuration the PDU packets are dropped to indicate an overflow buffer status to an internet protocol IP layer to reduce a packet rate to the PDCP layer at the UE.

In one example the method can include dropping the PDU packets due to delay or capacity constraints of at least one of an X2 link between the MeNB and the SeNB a radio link between the MeNB and the UE or a radio link between the SeNB and the UE. In addition the method can include dropping the PDU packets to indicate a buffer status to an internet protocol IP layer wherein the IP layer reduces a packet rate to the PDCP layer at the UE in response to the overflow buffer status. In one aspect the method can include requesting a modified uplink UL split ratio from the MeNB when the potential overflow occurs at the retransmission buffer of the UE. In one configuration the UE includes an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor an internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a master evolved node B MeNB operable to mitigate traffic congestion as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to determine that a retransmission buffer at the MeNB is storing a number of packets that exceed a selected threshold level as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to adjust a downlink DL split ratio for the packets in the retransmission buffer wherein the packets are to be sent to a secondary evolved node B SeNB or directly from the MeNB to a user equipment UE as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to split a bearer in the PDCP layer of the MeNB based on the adjusted DL split ratio to enable the UE and the SeNB to receive the packets in the retransmission buffer from the MeNB according to the adjusted DL split ratio.

In one configuration the retransmission buffer is at a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer of the MeNB. In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to adjust the DL split ratio for the packets in the retransmission buffer in response to detecting delay or capacity constraints on an X2 link between the MeNB and the SeNB.

The wireless device can communicate using separate antennas for each wireless communication standard or shared antennas for multiple wireless communication standards. The wireless device can communicate in a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and or a WWAN.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

