---

title: Systems and methods for driver and vehicle tracking
abstract: Systems and methods for driver and vehicle tracking in accordance with embodiments of the invention are disclosed. In one embodiment of the invention, a location tracking system includes a processor and a memory storing a location tracking application, wherein the location tracking application directs the processor to obtain vehicle location data, where the vehicle location data includes a set of vehicle location data points, obtain driver location data, where the driver location data includes a set of driver location data points, correlate the vehicle location data and the driver location data, and generate vehicle driver data based on the correlated vehicle location data and driver location data, where the generated vehicle driver data includes a set of drivers associated with a vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648579&OS=09648579&RS=09648579
owner: CalAmp Corp.
number: 09648579
owner_city: Oxnard
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141121
---
The present invention relates to location tracking and more specifically to tracking the location of vehicle and drivers.

A Global Positioning System GPS is a space based global navigation satellite system that utilizes a network of geo synchronous satellites that can be utilized by a GPS receiver to determine its location. Many telematics systems incorporate a Global Positioning System GPS receiver that can be used to obtain the location of a vehicle at a certain measured time. Using the signals received by the GPS receiver the heading information of the vehicle can be determined. A GPS receiver can determine velocity information in a variety of ways including but not limited to measuring the Doppler shift of the received signals and by comparing the location of a vehicle at a plurality of measured times. The acceleration of the vehicle can be determined as the change in speed divided by the time between the measurements. A GPS receiver s ability to determine acceleration can be limited due to the dependence of the measurement upon factors such as but not limited to reception and satellite availability. In addition to location information a GPS receiver can also be configured to provide time data. However measurements determined via a GPS receiver can contain errors that affect the accuracy of the measured information. In particular GPS signals are vulnerable to signal delays inconsistencies of atmospheric conditions that affect the speed of the GPS signals as they pass through the Earth s atmosphere and multipath distortions. Additionally other factors not listed above can influence GPS signals and result in measurement errors.

Telematics is the integrated use of telecommunications and informatics. Telematics units are installed in vehicles to provide a variety of telematics functionality in the vehicle. This functionality includes but is not limited to emergency warning systems navigation functionality safety warnings and automated driving assistance. Telematics units are also capable of recording data related to the operation of the vehicle and providing that information for analysis whether in real time or during a time when the vehicle is being serviced. This information can be used in a variety of applications such as fleet tracking shipment tracking insurance calculations and in vehicle management and service.

Systems and methods for driver and vehicle tracking in accordance with embodiments of the invention are disclosed. In one embodiment of the invention a location tracking system includes a processor and a memory storing a location tracking application wherein the location tracking application directs the processor to obtain vehicle location data where the vehicle location data includes a set of vehicle location data points obtain driver location data where the driver location data includes a set of driver location data points correlate the vehicle location data and the driver location data and generate vehicle driver data based on the correlated vehicle location data and driver location data where the generated vehicle driver data includes a set of drivers associated with a vehicle.

In an additional embodiment of the invention the location tracking application directs the processor to obtain vehicle location data from a vehicle location device.

In another embodiment of the invention the location tracking system further includes a network interface and the location tracking application directs the processor to obtain the vehicle location data using the network interface.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the location tracking application directs the processor to obtain driver location data from a driver location device.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the location tracking application directs the processor to correlate the vehicle location data and the driver location data based on overlapping location data points in the set of vehicle location data points and driver location data points.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the vehicle location data further includes a vehicle location sampling rate the driver location data further includes a driver location sampling rate and the correlation of the overlapping location data points is based on the vehicle location sampling rate and the driver location sampling rate.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the driver location sampling rate is greater than the vehicle location sampling rate.

In still another embodiment of the invention the driver location sampling rate is greater than or equal to double the vehicle location sampling rate.

In yet still another embodiment of the invention the driver location data further includes driver identification data uniquely identifying the driver and the vehicle driver data further includes the driver identification data.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the location tracking application directs the processor to correlate the vehicle location and the driver location data by calculating vehicle route data based on the vehicle location data where the vehicle route data includes a path describing the route taken by the vehicle calculating driver route data based on the driver location data where the driver route data includes a path describing the route taken by the driver computing a similarity score based on the vehicle route data and the driver route data and when the similarity score exceeds a threshold value determine that the vehicle location data and the driver location data are correlated.

Still another embodiment of the invention includes aA method for associating drivers with vehicles including obtaining vehicle location data using a location tracking system where the vehicle location data includes a set of vehicle location data points obtaining driver location data using the location tracking system where the driver location data includes a set of driver location data points correlating the vehicle location data and the driver location data using the location tracking system and generating vehicle driver data based on the correlated vehicle location data and driver location data using the location tracking system where the generated vehicle driver data includes a set of drivers associated with a vehicle.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the vehicle location data is obtained from a vehicle location device.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the location tracking system includes a network interface and the method includes obtaining the vehicle location data using the network interface.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the driver location data is obtained from a driver location device.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the method further includes correlating the vehicle location data and the driver location data based on overlapping location data points in the set of vehicle location data points and driver location data points using the location tracking system.

In still another embodiment of the invention the vehicle location data further includes a vehicle location sampling rate the driver location data further includes a driver location sampling rate and correlating the overlapping location data points is based on the vehicle location sampling rate and the driver location sampling rate.

In yet still another embodiment of the invention the driver location sampling rate is greater than the vehicle location sampling rate.

In yet another additional embodiment of the invention the driver location sampling rate is greater than or equal to double the vehicle location sampling rate.

In still another additional embodiment of the invention the driver location data further includes driver identification data uniquely identifying the driver and the vehicle driver data further includes the driver identification data.

In yet still another additional embodiment of the invention the method further includes correlating the vehicle location and the driver location data by calculating vehicle route data based on the vehicle location data using the location tracking system where the vehicle route data includes a path describing the route taken by the vehicle calculating driver route data based on the driver location data using the location tracking system where the driver route data includes a path describing the route taken by the driver computing a similarity score based on the vehicle route data and the driver route data using the location tracking system and when the similarity score exceeds a threshold value determining that the vehicle location data and the driver location data are correlated using the location tracking system.

Turning now to the drawings systems and methods for driver and vehicle tracking in accordance with embodiments of the invention are disclosed. Automatic vehicle location AVL devices i.e. telematics units are commonly employed in the management of fleets of vehicles. Many companies employ AVL devices and software tracking products that automatically track their fleet of vehicles. Additionally companies often employ a number of drivers and these drivers can be assigned to any of a variety of vehicles on any given day. Furthermore multiple drivers can be assigned to the same vehicle on the same day either in succession or at the same time. For example two drivers can be assigned to a particularly long route so that one driver can sleep while the other drives the vehicle thereby reducing the downtime of the vehicle.

Vehicle tracking systems in accordance with embodiments of the invention identify which drivers have been paired to which vehicles. Vehicle tracking systems obtain location information regarding the vehicles and drivers. The vehicle tracking systems can then correlate the driver location information with the vehicle location information in order to identify the drivers associated with a particular vehicle. In this way vehicle tracking systems can automatically associate drivers and vehicles without having a pre defined assignment of drivers to vehicles. This helps reduce scheduling issues with respect to drivers and vehicles along with providing accurate tracking of drivers and vehicles. Vehicle tracking system can also track the performance of individual drivers and vehicles. The tracked performance can include miles driven routes taken vehicles driven stops made total driving time total rest time vehicle condition service intervals and any other data as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention. In this way vehicle tracking systems allow drivers to be automatically paired up with a vehicle when they head out to work. This reduces the overhead on companies that rotate their drivers across their vehicle fleet etc. . . . while accurately tracking the performance of the drivers and or vehicles.

Systems and methods for driver and vehicle tracking in accordance with embodiments of the invention are discussed below.

Location tracking systems can obtain location data describing the location of vehicles and drivers and identify the driver s associated with a particular vehicle. A conceptual diagram of a location tracking system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The location tracking system includes a location tracking server system one or more vehicles and driver location devices including but not limited to mobile devices tablet devices and personal computers communicating via a network . In a variety of embodiments the network is the Internet. In many embodiments the network is a wired or wireless connection between the vehicle tracking device in the vehicle the driver location device s and or the location tracking server system . In a number of embodiments the location tracking server system implemented using a single server system. In several embodiments the location tracking server system is implemented using multiple server systems.

A vehicle includes at least one vehicle tracking device such as an automatic vehicle location system that identifies the location of the location tracking device. In many embodiments the vehicle tracking device utilizes the Global Positioning System GPS in order to determine the location of the vehicle. However it should be noted that any location determining techniques such as cellular tower triangulation wireless network geolocation techniques and dead reckoning techniques can be utilized as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of embodiments of the invention. In many embodiments the vehicle tracking device includes a network device that communicates via at least one network connection. This network connection can be a cellular or any other wireless data connection and or a wired connection as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention. The vehicle tracking device utilize the network device to transmit location data and or any other metadata regarding the vehicle as described in more detail below.

The driver location devices track the location of the driver. In many embodiments the driver location devices utilize techniques similar to those described with respect to the vehicle tracking devices in order to determine the location of the driver along with any of a variety of metadata describing the driver the driver s location and or performance information related to the driver. In a number of embodiments driver location devices include a network device that communicates via one or more networks. In several embodiments driver location devices connect to vehicle tracking devices and utilize a network connection provided by the vehicle tracking device to transmit driver location data. Similarly vehicle tracking devices can connect to driver location devices to transmit vehicle location data. This connection can be any data connection including wired and wireless connections as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of embodiments of the invention. Additionally driver location devices and or vehicle location devices can cache driver location data and or vehicle location data and transmit data once a network connection becomes available.

The location tracking system obtains vehicle location data and driver location data describing the location and other metadata of the vehicles and drivers. The location tracking system generates vehicle driver data describing the associations of drivers and vehicles along with any of a variety of performance data utilizing any of a variety of location tracking processes such as but not limited to those described herein. In a variety of embodiments the location tracking system provides a user interface allowing for visualizing and interacting with the data. In several embodiments the location tracking system provides an interface such as an application programming interface API or web service that provides some or all of the data to third party systems for further processing. Access to the interface can be open and or secured using any of a variety of techniques such as by using client authorization keys as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention.

Although a specific architecture of a location tracking system in accordance with embodiments of the invention are discussed above and illustrated in a variety of architectures including location devices and techniques not specifically named can be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

Location tracking server systems in accordance with embodiments of the invention obtain location information for vehicles and drivers and determines associations between the vehicles and the drivers who are driving the vehicles. Additionally location tracking server systems can measure performance information with respect to the vehicles and or the drivers. A conceptual illustration of a location tracking server system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The location tracking server system includes a processor in communication with memory . The location tracking server system also includes a network interface configured to send and receive data over a network connection. In a number of embodiments the network interface is in communication with the processor and or the memory . In several embodiments the memory is any form of storage configured to store a variety of data including but not limited to a location tracking application vehicle location data driver location data and vehicle driver data . In many embodiments the location tracking application vehicle location data driver location data and or vehicle driver data are stored using an external server system and received by the location tracking server system using the network interface .

The processor is configured by the location tracking application to perform a variety of location tracking processes. Location tracking processes include obtaining vehicle location data and driver location data and generating vehicle driver data. A number of location tracking processes that can be performed in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described in more detail below.

Vehicle location data includes a set of geographic location data time data sampling rate data vehicle identification data and or any other data related to the vehicle and or the location of the vehicle as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention. Driver location data includes but is not limited to a set of geographic location data time data sampling rate data driver identification data and or any other data related to the driver and or the location of the driver as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention. Vehicle driver data includes but is not limited to vehicle driver data describing a set of drivers associated with a vehicle time data location data and or any other data related to the association of drivers and vehicles as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of embodiments of the invention.

Although a specific architecture for a location tracking server system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is conceptually illustrated in any of a variety of architectures including those that store data or applications on disk or some other form of storage and are loaded into memory at runtime can also be utilized. In a variety of embodiments the memory includes circuitry such as but not limited to memory cells constructed using transistors that are configured to store instructions. Similarly the processor can include logic gates formed from transistors or any other device that are configured to dynamically perform actions based on the instructions stored in the memory. In several embodiments the instructions are embodied in a configuration of logic gates within the processor to implement and or perform actions described by the instructions. In this way the systems and methods described herein can be performed utilizing both general purpose computing hardware and by single purpose devices.

Location tracking processes can include obtaining vehicle location data and driver location data. As described above vehicle location data and or driver location data can be obtained from vehicle location devices and or driver location devices. In several embodiments driver location devices have a sampling rate describing how often the driver location device determines and or records the location of the driver. Similarly the vehicle location device can have its own sampling rate describing how often the vehicle location device determines and or records the location of the vehicle. Additionally the driver location data and or vehicle location data can include time data for one or more of the recorded locations indicating the time at which the location was recorded. In a number of embodiments the driver location data and or the vehicle location data includes time data describing the start and or end of location recording. Furthermore the vehicle location data can include vehicle identification data describing the vehicle. Similarly the driver location data can include driver identification data describing the driver.

In many embodiments generating vehicle driver data includes correlating the location of a vehicle to the location of one or more drivers. In a number of embodiments this correlation includes determining overlapping location data points between the location of the vehicle and the location of the driver. In several embodiments the sampling rate of the driver location data is set to be twice that of the sampling rate of the vehicle location data. This sampling rate can be set on the device level and or location data from the vehicle location data and the driver location data can be subsampled at the appropriate rate. However it should be noted that any ratio of sampling rate including those where the sampling rates are equal and those where the vehicle sampling rate exceeds the driver sampling rate can be utilized as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention. Additionally a variety of additional data including the location data points the proximity of the driver location data points and the vehicle location data points speed and or acceleration data associated with the location data points and any other data can be utilized to correlate the various location data points as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention.

Many conditions can be measured to determine if a driver is correlated with a vehicle in accordance with embodiments of the invention including if a threshold number of points are overlapping and if the route taken by the vehicle is similar to the route taken by the driver. In a number of embodiments the similarity of a vehicle route and a driver route is determined by measuring similarity of the paths to calculate a similarity score describing the common features of the respective routes. The similarity score can then be compared to other similarity scores and or threshold values in order to determine if the routes are sufficiently correlated to identify the driver of a vehicle. Vehicle driver data can be generated based on the correlation of vehicle location data points and driver location data points. As described above the vehicle driver data describes the driver s associated with a particular vehicle based on the correlated location data and the identification information describing the vehicles and drivers. Additionally any additional data such as time data and or speed data can be utilized to describe the performance of the driver and or vehicle as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of embodiments of the invention.

A process for tracking vehicles and drivers in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The process includes obtaining vehicle location data obtaining driver location data correlating location data and generating vehicle driver data.

Although specific processes for tracking vehicles and drivers in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described above with respect to any number of processes can be utilized as appropriate to the requirements of a specific application in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Techniques for generating vehicle location data and driver location data in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described in more detail below.

Vehicle location devices can determine the location of a vehicle over a particular time frame. Many vehicle location devices in accordance with embodiments of the invention utilize a variety of techniques to determine when a vehicle is moving or otherwise in order to better determine the location of the vehicle. In a number of embodiments vehicle location devices determine when a vehicle has started before determining the location of the vehicle. Systems and methods for virtual ignition detection that can be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 489 271 issued Jul. 16 2013. In several embodiments vehicle location devices can utilize the acceleration of the vehicle as part of the location determination process. Systems and methods for calibrating and determining the acceleration of a vehicle that can be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the invention are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2013 0073142 published Mar. 21 2013 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0236518 published Aug. 21 2014 and U.S Patent Publication No. 2014 0236519 published Aug. 21 2014. In a variety of embodiments acceleration events can be characterized to describe the performance of the driver and or vehicle. Systems and methods for characterizing acceleration events that can be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0142886 published May 22 2014. In many embodiments particular driving events can be detected along with the location at which those events occurred. Systems and methods for detecting events and location reporting that can be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0111354 published Apr. 24 2014. The disclosures of U.S. Pat. No. 8 489 271 and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2013 0073142 2014 0111354 2014 0142886 2014 0236518 and 2014 0236519 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Some or all of the driving events measured data identification information and or any other metadata can be included in vehicle location data as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of embodiments of the invention.

A process for generating vehicle location data in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . In many embodiments the process includes allowing vehicle location tracking. The process also includes determining vehicle activity calculating vehicle position data generating vehicle location data and transmitting vehicle location data.

Although specific processes for generating vehicle location data in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described above with respect to any number of processes including those that store vehicle location data on a vehicle location device and transmit the data once the location determining device is connected to a network or a location tracking server system can be utilized as appropriate to the requirements of a specific application in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

As described above driver location devices determine the location of a driver. In many embodiments driver location devices obtain driver data such as but not limited to the name of the driver and or a unique driver identifier and use that information to identify the driver. For example a driver location device can include a software application that the driver must sign into before the driver location device will begin recording the driver s location. Additionally the driver location device can associate with a vehicle location device in the vehicle. In several embodiments this association is used to determine which driver is driving the vehicle at any given time particularly in those embodiments where multiple drivers are located in the same vehicle. In a number of embodiments the pairing of vehicle location devices and driver location devices includes synchronizing the devices such as by setting a common starting location starting time and or sampling rates. Driver location devices can determine the location of a driver utilizing any of a variety of techniques including those described above and those described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 489 271 and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2013 0073142 2014 0111354 2014 0142886 2014 0236518 and 2014 0236519 incorporated by reference above.

A process for generating driver location data in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . In a number of embodiments the process includes allowing driver location tracking and or pairing a driver location device with a vehicle location device. The process also includes determining driver activity calculating driver location generating driver location data and transmitting driver location data.

Specific processes for generating driver location data in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described above with respect to however any number of processes including those that store driver location data on a driver location device and transmit the data once the driver location device is connected to a network or a location tracking server system can be utilized as appropriate to the requirements of a specific application in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

As described above generating driver vehicle data includes correlating vehicle location data and driver location data. In many embodiments a variety of metadata is used to supplement the location data provided in order to differentiate between vehicles within close proximity to each other. For example vehicles may be stored in a parking garage having multiple levels and vehicles may be driven on surface and underground streets along with multi level bridges. Furthermore different GPS devices particularly those from different manufacturers may exhibit varying degrees of accuracy with respect to the determined location and may have differing drift characteristics. Additionally a variety of driving behaviors can be determined based on the vehicle location data and the driver location data and utilized to generate vehicle driver data as appropriate to the specific applications in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In particular techniques disclosed in the disclosures of U.S. Pat. No. 8 489 271 and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2013 0073142 2014 0111354 2014 0142886 2014 0236518 and 2014 0236519 incorporated by reference in their entirety above can be utilized in many embodiments of the invention.

In several embodiments driver location data and or vehicle location data include metadata describing a change in direction of travel hard acceleration or declaration and or lateral acceleration or any other metadata describing driving behavior as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention. In a variety of embodiments a change in direction of travel is indicated by measuring the change in heading as described by multiple pieces of driver location data and or vehicle location data. Any change in heading such as greater than or equal to 30 degrees can indicate a change in direction as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention. In many embodiments this metadata is sent in addition to driver location data and or vehicle location data sent out on a regular schedule utilizing techniques similar to those described above.

This metadata can be utilized to correlate the driver location data and the vehicle location data. In a number of embodiments the correlation includes compensating for differences in time and or location. In several embodiments the driver location data and or vehicle location data can be searched in order to identify corresponding driving events. Any search can be utilized including geo location searches as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of embodiments of the invention. The geo location search can be fine tuned or the results of the search filtered by a variety of metadata associated with the vehicle location data and or driver location data. This metadata includes but is not limited to altitude data heading data account data driver data vehicle data and or any other metadata that can be used to narrow the correlation of vehicle location data and driver location data as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of the invention.

In the event that the above correlation and search results in multiple vehicles and or multiple drivers so that a pairing cannot be determined historical vehicle location data and or driver location data such as data starting from the beginning of the trip can be utilized to augment the data analysis. In this way the entire trip can be analyzed to resolve potential ambiguities in particular portions of the travel routes. In a variety of embodiments this analysis includes fitting a curve to the location data and selecting the vehicle location curve and the driver location curve that are the most similar as measured by any of a variety of techniques such as a confidence score and or a similarity score as appropriate to the requirements of specific applications of embodiments of the invention. However if the historical data is insufficient to resolve the issues additional driver location data and or vehicle location data can be obtained in order to provide more data points for the analysis.

A process for correlating vehicle and driver data in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The process includes obtaining location data related to an event occurrence. A geo spatial search is performed and in a number of embodiments the search results are filtered . Matching location data is identified and if a vehicle and driver pairing is identified vehicle driver data is generated. If a vehicle and driver pairing is not identified additional data is obtained . Specific processes for generating vehicle driver data in accordance with embodiments of the invention are described above with respect to however any number of processes including those that identify event occurrences utilizing techniques other than those described above can be utilized as appropriate to the requirements of a specific application in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

Although the present invention has been described in certain specific aspects many additional modifications and variations would be apparent to those skilled in the art. In particular any of the various processes described above can be performed in alternative sequences and or in parallel on the same or on different computing devices in order to achieve similar results in a manner that is more appropriate to the requirements of a specific application. It is therefore to be understood that the present invention can be practiced otherwise than specifically described without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined not by the embodiments illustrated but by the appended claims and their equivalents.

