---

title: Rotary capture device with passive engagement and active release
abstract: A vehicle recovery system is provided which includes a capture device having a body with two arms defining an open ended cavity with a shaft attached to and between each of the arms and extending through the cavity. A tow line is attached to the body opposite the cavity and a buoyant member disposed in the cavity and rotatable around the shaft. A plurality of capture loops disposed within the cavity are rotatable with the buoyant member and define closed loops with the buoyant member. A spring-loaded towing latch is attached to the vehicle to be recovered. The latch includes a hook having a first open position and a second closed position. The hook is moveable from the first position to the second position under action of a biasing spring upon engagement of one of the capture loops over the hook.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09051031&OS=09051031&RS=09051031
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09051031
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to vehicle recovery systems. Specifically the present invention relates to a vehicle recovery system having a rotary capture device compatible with a passive engagement and an active release device of a vehicle to be recovered.

Unmanned Surface Vehicles USV provide an expanding range of applications. However USVs face a challenge when deployed from and recovered by larger vehicles such as ships especially when the vessels are operating in varying sea states. Therefore a reliable robust and simple system for transitioning between self propelled and captured states is necessary for mission effectiveness.

Mayo U.S. Pat. No. 3 653 101 recites a quick release self locking hook attached to a buoy which is connected to an embedded anchor by a heavy chain or wire rope. The cited reference is directed to a self locking capability to attempt to eliminate the necessity of human intervention in the locking process. The reference recites that this is accomplished by providing a locking keeper that is pivotable for full rotation.

Epstein U.S. Pat. No. 3 762 757 recites that in the mooring of ships and boats to a dock it is necessary to have a line run from the ship or boat to the dock. The line can be more or less tight and must be fixed so as to allow relatively little movement of the ship or boat with respect to the dock. When it is necessary to allow the ship or boat to move away from the dock it is also necessary to disengage the line from the fastening means on the dock. This reference relates to a fastening means whereby a line can be positioned to the fastening means for securing the ship or boat adjacent to the dock. Then the person on the dock can mechanically actuate the fastening means to allow the line to slip away from the fastening means and also to allow the ship or boat to sail away from the dock. This fastening means is identified as a releasable hook. When it is desired to have a ship or boat fixedly secured with respect to the dock the fastening means is in a locked position to firmly position the line. When it is desired to allow the line to be slipped and to allow the ship or boat to sail away from the dock the operator on the dock can disengage the fastening means or releasable hook from the line.

Schulz U.S. Pat. No. 3 868 922 discloses an automatic latch unlatch mechanism comprising a housing having a plurality of latches pivotally attached thereto. A probe inserted into the housing at a specific first distance and moved in the opposite direction at a specific second distance is engaged by the latches and prevented from being extracted from the housing. Then if the probe is moved at a specific third distance into the housing the probe may be extracted therefrom.

McClain U.S. Pat. No. 3 918 386 recites a boat docking device mounted on the bow of a boat with the device comprising a housing member having forward surfaces slanting inwardly to a slot for receiving a mooring line a latch pivotally mounted in the housing member between a locked and unlocked position and a retractable biased pin urged against the locking member for securing the latch in a locked position.

Ortloff U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 930 recites an apparatus for securing two offshore mooring sections together. The apparatus is a connector adapted to disengage each mooring section so that an offshore floating storage vessel having one mooring section attached may be separated from the riser of a single anchor leg mooring system having the other mooring section attached. The connector comprises a pin member engageable with a hook of a latch member. The latch member is rotated once the hook engages the pin member and a plunger then advances into an open region of the hook thereby prohibiting the rotational movement of the latch member and locking the two mooring sections together.

In Held et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 082 318 a girth hitch is secured about an object by a girth hitching mechanism having a rotatable actuator gate which displaces a latch gate that has a parrot hook that loosely supports a portion of a closed girth loop. A latch ring joined to the girth loop by a latch ring bite is engaged by the parrot hook when the latch gate and actuator gate are rotatably displaced as the object enters the throat of a fork which supports the latch gate actuator gate and latch ring. After the parrot hook engages the latch ring and the latch gate is rotated in the opposite direction by the object to disengage the latch ring the girth loop is pulled from its loose support on the parrot hook into a girth hitch configuration about the object to enable recovery via an attached lift line.

In McMillan U.S. Pat. No. 5 123 374 a releasable toggle locking mooring hook is provided having a releasable hook toggle linkage a stop release mechanism a self locking safety latch and a self release mechanism adapted to provide a locking mooring hook and a releasing means while a mooring hook is under a tensile load. In the mooring of ships boats and barges to a dock or oil well platform a line usually under tension is run from the ship to a mooring means mounted on the dock or platform. When it is desired that the ship leave this mooring this mooring means can be actuated manually mechanically or by a pre set tensioned self releasing means to release mooring line and thus allow the ship to sail. This mooring means is identified as a releasable toggle locking mooring hook.

Exemplary embodiments of a system and method of use in accordance with the present invention are directed to a surface vehicle capture device compatible with a passive engagement and an active release device of a vehicle to be towed. In one embodiment the capture device utilizes a recovery tow line secured to a U shaped body or fork that is coupled to a buoyant rotor. The buoyant member is shaft mounted in a cavity defined by two arms of the U shaped body to which the shaft is fixedly or rotatably attached. Capture loops are pinned on ends of an outer surface of the buoyant member.

As the capture device is dragged thru the water the buoyant member provides flotation. The capture loops provide asymmetric drag thereby rotating the buoyant member and capture loops around the shaft. As a vehicle approaches to latch with the capture device a primary latch and a stem guard of a spring loaded secondary latch on the vehicle to be recovered guide at least one of the capture loops into the primary latch. The secondary latch is displaced as the capture loop enters and then spring loads to a locking position that captures the capture loop. This capture mechanically brings the vehicle into a controlled tow.

To release the capture loop the primary latch is freed by an actuator that releases a mechanical stop. This action allows the primary latch to rotate about a pin. Once released the system resets for capture by reversing the action of the actuator and torsional springs.

An advantage of the present recovery system is that passive latching is achieved by simply positioning the craft bow in proximity to the capture device. No active reset of the device is needed when a miss occurs in the docking procedure. Active system control is only used to release the recovered vehicle from the capture device.

The material of the capture loops can be synthetic line wire rope or formed solid rods. Paddle size can be varied to control rotational velocity and wake signature preferably with the least amount of drag and the most stable over the broadest range of recovery speeds. Also positioning of the paddles on the drum can be used to control rotational velocity and wake signature. The capture device can be towed alone or coupled to other recovery equipment.

An integral passive pump can be used to enhance a recovery effect. Some types of personal water craft have a diversion outlet that sends a portion of the propulsion water jet into the air allowing an increase the visibility of the watercraft . In the present invention two streams of water from the vessel with the capture loops form fluid guide posts for a visual recovery of the vessel to be towed.

In the description which follows any reference to either direction or orientation is intended primarily and solely for purposes of illustration and is not intended in any way as a limitation on the scope of the present invention. The particular embodiments described herein although being preferred are not to be considered as limiting the present invention.

Referring initially to the present invention is directed to a system for recovery of a vehicle . Suitable recovery vehicles not shown include but are not limited to a surface vessel such as a ship or a boat or an undersea vessel such as a submarine. Recovery vehicles include manned and unmanned vehicles.

The system comprises a capture device and a spring loaded towing latch . The capture device is a U shaped body arranged with opposing arms that are spaced from each other to define an open ended cavity . A shaft is attached to each one of the two arms and extends through the cavity . The shaft can be fixedly attached or rotatably attached to each arm .

The capture device includes a tow line attached to the U shaped body opposite the cavity . The tow line attaches at another end to the towing vessel. The tow line is deployable and retractable from the towing vessel for example from a spooling mechanism attached to the towing vessel. Suitable tow lines are known in the art.

The capture device includes a buoyant member rotatably disposed in the cavity . In one embodiment the shaft is fixed and the buoyant member rotates around the fixed shaft. Alternatively the buoyant member is fixedly attached to the shaft and the shaft rotates.

The capture device includes a plurality of capture loops disposed to fit and easily move within the cavity . Each of the capture loops are attached to the buoyant member and the shaft and are rotatable with the buoyant member. Each capture loop and the buoyant member define a closed loop. These closed loops are capable of engaging the spring loaded latch that is attached to the vehicle .

The buoyant member is a cylindrical drum having an outer surface and two ends a first end and a second end . The first and second ends are circular and preferably are formed as semi spherical caps. The cylindrical drum and the ends can be formed as a sealed unit to create buoyancy or can be constructed of or covered by a buoyant material.

A central axis passes through the cylindrical drum between the ends . The shaft extends through the ends along the central axis . In one embodiment each capture loop is formed from a curved rod attached to the outer surface of the cylindrical drum at two locations.

A first location is disposed adjacent to the first end of the cylindrical drum and a second location is disposed adjacent the second end of the cylindrical drum. Each curved rod extends along the outer surface of the cylindrical drum along a line parallel to the central axis and extends radially outward from outer surface of the cylindrical drum to form an arched shape defining the closed loop.

In one embodiment the capture loops also provide for rotation of the buoyant member and the attached capture loops within the U shaped body . As the capture device is pulled along the water surface by the tow line in the direction of travel A of the recovery vessel and the captured vehicle a corresponding rotational motion is induced in the buoyant member and the capture loops . As illustrated each capture loop is moved vertically out of the water surface. This rotational motion facilitates engagement in the downwardly facing and spring loaded towing latch .

In one embodiment the buoyant member and the capture loops are sized and shaped to rotate about the shaft at a predefined rotation speed. The rotational speed of the buoyant member is preferably thirty rotations per minute. The diameter of the buoyant member is the perimeter of the buoyant member. The speed of a towing action provides a distance over time while the perimeters give revolutions over time as a RPM revolutions per minute .

Suitable materials for the U shaped body the shaft and the buoyant member include but are not limited to a buoyant material aluminum titanium carbon fiber a polymer and combinations thereof. Suitable materials for the capture loop include but are not limited to a synthetic line a wire rope and a formed solid metal rod.

Referring to an alternative embodiment of a capture device with a buoyant member and capture loops is illustrated. The buoyant member includes at least one paddle and preferably a plurality of paddles attached to and extending out from the buoyant member. The paddles are separate from the capture loops . The capture device includes a cylindrical drum having an outer surface and two ends. A central axis passes through the cylindrical drum between the two ends and a shaft extends through the two ends along the central axis.

Each paddle is a solid plate extending radially outward from the outer surface of the cylindrical drum and along the outer surface of the drum between the two ends parallel to the central axis. In one embodiment each paddle has a central portion attached to the buoyant member and two parallel plates extending outwardly from the central portion on two parallel planes. A first plate extends outwardly from the central portion at a first distance and a second plate extends outwardly from the central portion a second distance. The first distance is greater than the second distance.

The cylindrical drum includes a plurality of distinct wedge shaped segments that are fitted together to define the outer surface of the buoyant member . In one embodiment the wedge shaped segments are fitted over a cylindrical central portion of the buoyant member . These wedge shaped segments can be formed from a buoyant material with the paddles attached to the wedge shaped segments.

As illustrated the buoyant member is fixedly attached to the shaft and the shaft is configured to rotatably engage with the two arms of the U shaped body . Each capture loop is also fixedly attached to the shaft . Therefore rotation of the shaft rotates the buoyant member and the capture loops . The paddles induce rotation of the buoyant member . The use of paddles allows the use of fewer capture loops thinner or larger capture loops or capture loops formed of a flexible material such as wire rope as the capture loops are not used to induce rotation of the buoyant member .

Returning to the spring loaded towing latch is attached to the vehicle . Preferably the towing latch is mounted to the hull at the bow near or above the water line. Therefore the capture device being pulled behind the tow vessel is extended rearward to engage the forward facing spring loaded latch . The arrangement of the towing latch and capture loops provide for passive latching of the capture device in the towing latch. No active closure or reset of the towing latch is needed to engage the capture device or to reset the towing latch following a miss during a docking procedure. Active control is only used to release the capture device from the towing latch .

In general the towing latch includes a moveable hook having a first open position and a second closed position. The hook is moveable from the first position to the second position under action of a biasing spring upon engagement of one of the capture loops over the hook. As illustrated in the hook includes a primary latch with a stem guard portion to capture one of the loops . The hook and in particular the primary latch is pivotable away from the stem guard portion to facilitate release of the capture loops .

The towing latch also includes a secondary latch attached to the primary latch . The secondary latch is biased in a locked position away from the hook by a biasing spring. The secondary latch moves toward the hook to allow passage of one of the capture loops for engagement of the hook and securing of the capture loop in the towing latch . When the secondary latch returns to an original biased position the capture loop is secured in the hook.

Other types and arrangements of spring loaded towing latches can be used. In general the towing latch is biased open and closes upon engagement of a capture loop . As illustrated in another embodiment of a spring loaded towing latch is illustrated. A main body of the towing latch is mounted to the recovery vessel by using one or more mounts . A hook of the towing latch is pivotally mounted to the body and is biased open until engagement of one or more capture loops around the hook. The towing latch includes a plurality of springs to bias the hook open or closed to secure the capture loops . A rod is also provided and attached to the hook to facilitate capture of the capture loops and to prevent the capture loops from disengaging from the hook.

Recovery methods will rely on operator visual detection. Sensors and lasers can provide a spatial reference that can assist or even replace visual detection during. The capture device has the advantage of being able to produce a highly visible wake to aid the operator in aiming for the final docking maneuver. Furthermore the capture device can be towed alone or coupled to other recovery equipment.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

