---

title: System and method for increasing clarity and expressiveness in network communications
abstract: Embodiments for increasing clarity and expressiveness in network communications include: obtaining a message from a first user as part of a network-enabled conversation with a second user; analyzing the message to identify an expressiveness keyword indicative of an emotion, mood, or level of expressiveness; selecting a level or degree of emotional expressiveness to which a corresponding emotion or mood should be expressed in relation to the identified expressiveness keyword; applying, by use of a processor, at least one embellishment to the message to produce an embellished message, the embellishment including either an explicitly user-selected embellishment or an automatically generated embellishment based on content of the message, the at least one embellishment being configured in a manner consistent with the selected level or degree of emotional expressiveness; and causing transmission of the embellished message via a network to the second user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09425974&OS=09425974&RS=09425974
owner: IMVU, Inc.
number: 09425974
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140225
---
This is a continuation in part patent application drawing priority from co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 586 551 filed Aug. 15 2012. This present patent application draws priority from the referenced patent application. The entire disclosure of the referenced patent application is considered part of the disclosure of the present application and is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application relates to a system and method for use with networked entities according to one embodiment and more specifically a system and method for increasing clarity and expressiveness in network communications.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2011 2014 IMVU Inc. All Rights Reserved.

With the promulgation of connected devices text based communication has increased in importance over the last several decades. Examples of text based chat used on devices that are sometimes or always online include mobile phone Short Messaging Services SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS Online Chat the Internet Relay Chat network e mail and avatar based chat applications like IMVU.com and text broadcasting status updating services like Twitter and Facebook.

Text based chat can be based on a synchronous interactive dialog or can be based on an asynchronous dialog such as through mobile phone SMS messages Twitter online forums or e mail. The difference between synchronous and asynchronous communications is that in synchronous communications both sender and receiver of a message must be connected to the messaging exchange at the same time whereas with asynchronous messaging a sender leaves a message in storage which is later retrieved and interpreted by the recipient. The best asynchronous messaging systems such as SMS and Twitter may appear close to synchronous in nature because they support communication latencies of as low as a few seconds but the technology is still asynchronous and there are limitations to the interactivity afforded by asynchronous communication implementations.

Because of limitations inherent in text transmission conventions have evolved to express states of mind the difference between joking and seriousness and short hand for various kinds of common expressions. However these conventions have not sufficiently improved the limitations inherent in conventional text transmission.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

In a real personal interaction the reactions and responses of the people involved are an important part of the communication. This part of real personal interaction is generally not captured well by the existing state of the art. Avatar based communication systems such as IMVU.com IMVU is a trademark of IMVU Inc. have responded to this need by allowing participants to communicate animations in addition to emoticons. Such animations are immediately visible to all participants in the communications session but once played out such animations are gone and not generally visible in the textual history of the communication. Additionally such avatar based communications only work when the interaction is synchronous.

The history of a textual conversation is generally displayed as a scrollable list of related messages. To refer to previous parts of the conversation or previous conversations the user reads the text. For systems that use avatar based chat this log does not capture the totality of the conversation because avatars that were in the scene and may have animated during the chat are doing something else at the time of review or may no longer even be in the scene.

In the marketplace the existing asynchronous mechanisms suffer from a lack of differentiation. Communications through one asynchronous text based messaging system feels very similar in all the available products. This leads to a lack of ability with the systems operator to capture value from users of a system other than trying to inject advertising or other similar external extrinsic monetization which may be resented by users.

An example embodiment is illustrated in which depicts an expressive embellished conversation between three participants. The conversation and images are composed by and displayed to conversation participants using any of various means of input e.g. keyboard stylus speech recognition joystick mouse touch sensitivity screen keyboard etc. and any of various means of output such as a display device e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT display projector display e ink display printer etc. The conversation can be framed by the message processing system of an example embodiment using comic book visual styles e.g. a plurality of comic book style panels to draw upon a rich visual language of expression. A conversation between networked users can be broken down into a series of cells in which message panels display the message content conveyed between the networked users. As described in more detail below a networked conversation can be embellished in a variety of ways to enhance the expressive intent of the networked users and thereby create a more effective form of communication. Examples of framing methods available in the example embodiment include 

As described in more detail herein the embellishments of messages and conversations includes the use of a wide variety of techniques for adding expressive elements to a message or a series of messages. These techniques as described herein include the use of avatars animation a plurality of comic book style panels display objects shapes textures colors shading conceptual hints visual styles and other techniques for embellishing a message or a series of messages in a conversation with expressive elements. In one embodiment messages and or conversations can be embellished with 3D avatars with multiple animated elements including various expressive backgrounds. In other embodiments messages and or conversations can be embellished by separating portions of the conversation into comic style panels within which 3D avatars can be displayed and or animations can be played.

Referring now to an illustrated alternative embodiment may use different visual styles. Each separate visual style may use a different set of conventions for example a cinematic movie based embodiment may use the conventions or conceptual hints of film noir whereas a crayon based visual style may use conventions or conceptual hints of children s drawings. It is expected that some commercial offerings of the various embodiments may specialize in a particular convention to suit a specific market and other offerings may provide a choice of conventions to the users.

For effect embodiments may animate the old existing panels and the new panel as the new panel is added to the conversation. The example embodiment uses top to down layout based on chronological ordering with an older panel merging left to right in a single cell. Note that temporal information is provided in each cell. Other layouts may be chosen to support other writing styles e.g. right to left etc. as well as other communication styles e.g. back to front ordered by different criteria such as sender subject visual cues etc. 

As can be seen in the image shown in the conversation history is structured with more recent entries in bigger panels and entries that are temporally proximate overlap whereas there is a more clear separation to older panels.

Referring now to the example embodiment illustrates a text box for entering messages a button e.g. Send to submit post the message to the intended recipients and a button e.g. smiling face to display an emoticon composition user interface having a set of controls to compose more expressive animations emoticons.

In addition to manual composition of animation based emoticons the example embodiment can also extract meaning through analysis of the text in a current message and or in a history of the message communications. For example the text with all capital letters in a message can be displayed using a jagged outline to convey exclamatory intent as shown in .

Referring now to the example embodiments illustrate examples of animated emoticons available in various embodiments. For example illustrates a plain un adorned presentation image for illustration. illustrates an animation of question marks emanating out from the conversation participant first exploding out and then floating gently out and up. illustrates three dimensional 3D objects e.g. butterflies flying out from and interacting with the participant avatar. shows a background of hearts adding emotion to the entire display scene rather than focusing entirely on the participant avatar. shows concentric circles radiating out behind the participant avatar for emphasis a common comic book convention taken to interactive online animation. shows modifying the entire scene to add drama. For example the background changes to one of clouds there is 3D rain added to the scene elements and the avatar animates with an expression of shock. In each of these examples various forms of message embellishments or conversation embellishments are used to convey expressive elements of the communication between users.

Referring again to the hearts clouds and butterflies displayed in and map to corresponding buttons along the bottom row of the set of controls of the emoticon composition user interface shown in . The circles and question marks displayed in map to corresponding buttons found on other pages tabs of the emoticon composition interface.

The example embodiment provides a mechanism e.g. the compose message processing component described in more detail below for participants to discover and purchase additional modes of expression while composing a message. These modes may be as simple as a design for text display or as complex as a complete scene change complete with animated 3D objects sound effects and interaction between participating avatars. These modes of expression may be provided by the operator provider of the message processing system or may be provided by other third parties e.g. User Generated Content where such third parties may be users of an embodiment of the message processing system described herein. Purchasing may be made with appropriate value including but not limited to real world money earned points or credits micro currencies social reputation points bonus and rewards redeemable tokens credits cards debit cards check SMS payment home phone payment pre paid cards and any other mode of payment transaction.

As described above an example embodiment is configured to add expressive elements to messages or a series of messages e.g. conversations as embellishments of messages or conversations. These embellishments can include among a variety of embellishment techniques described herein processing a series of messages to generate a corresponding plurality of comic book style panels which embellish the original conversation. As part of this process an example embodiment can be configured to receive a series of messages e.g. a conversation via a network from one or more other users. The received messages can be conventional text chat messages instant messages email messages Twitter tweets social network or blog postings transcribed voice messages and or any of a variety of messages produced by standard text messaging systems. The received messages can be also be conventional text documents files news articles transcribed interviews and the like. In general virtually any type of textual data can be used as a source of the messages provided as an input to the various embodiments described herein.

In a typical example the received messages can be conventional text chat messages conveyed between at least two users via a conventional network. The series of messages conveyed between the two users can be considered a conversation. As well known in conventional text messaging systems it can be difficult to capture the intent mood tone emotion inflection or subtle meaning of a conversation by use of mere text. As described above some users have employed the use of emoticons to attempt to capture the subtleties of a conversation. But these techniques can be crude and sometimes annoying.

The various embodiments disclosed herein can embellish a conversation by converting a series of messages into a corresponding set of comic book style panels in a panel layout which add expressive elements to a conversation and thereby improve communication between the two users. In one embodiment a user who is sending a message e.g. a sending user can select from a variety of panel layout selections which convey various types of moods. For example see . In another embodiment the messaging system of an example embodiment can analyze the message text generated by the sending user or other source of textual data and automatically select an appropriate panel layout from the available set of panel layout options without the need for an explicit user selection of a panel layout. The message text itself can provide clues that allow the messaging system to select an appropriate panel layout. For example a text message presented in the form of a question can cause the automatic selection of a panel layout related to a question e.g. see . In another example a text message presented with various keywords e.g. sad depressed etc. can cause the automatic selection of a panel layout related to a sad or dramatic mood e.g. see . In another example a text message presented with various keywords e.g. love romance etc. can cause the automatic selection of a panel layout related to a romantic mood e.g. see . In yet another example a text message presented with various active verbs e.g. shout cry etc. can cause the automatic selection of a panel layout related to an active response e.g. see . Additionally other cues in the text message itself can be indicative of a particular panel layout selection such as capitalization punctuation emoticons repeated phrases etc. Using these techniques the various embodiments can either explicitly e.g. user selected or implicitly e.g. automatically selected based on message content select a panel layout that corresponds to the received message. In this manner an example embodiment can decide on an initial panel layout for the display of a newly received message. Once the panel layout for the received message is selected as described above the text of the received message can be integrated into an instance of a panel with the selected panel layout thereby producing a message panel. The message panel for the newly received message can be added to previously generated message panels of a related conversation between one or more users according to the panel layout e.g. see . The panel layout can be used to determine how the various message panels of a conversation fit together. For example the panel layout can define a layout wherein message panels are separated with whitespace the use of jagged or non linear panel frames the use of gradients for panel separation the use of connecting lines lightning rods animated elements and or avatars to emphasize the flow of conversation displaying panels of different sizes and the like. Other panel layout techniques are described above. In each case the message panel layout can be used to embellish the conversation between two or more users.

As each message of a conversation is received the messaging system of an example embodiment can process the newly received message to add embellishments to the messages and to the conversation as described above. In each case the messaging system can select an appropriate message panel for a message and an appropriate panel layout for a conversation using the explicit or implicit methods as described above. In some cases the newly received message may change the tone of a conversation which may make a change necessary to the message panel selections or panel layout of previous messages. Therefore an example embodiment compares the panel layout selection for a current message with the panel layout selections made for previous messages of a conversation. In this manner the example embodiment determines a relationship between the current message and previous messages. Similarly the example embodiment determines a relationship between the currently selected panel layout and previously used panel layouts. Based on this comparison between a current message and previous messages and between the currently selected panel layout and previously used panel layouts the example embodiment can modify the currently selected panel layout to select a different panel layout that may more closely match the tone reflected in the current message. Similarly the example embodiment can modify a previously used panel layout to select a different panel layout for the previous message that may more closely match the tone reflected in the current message. In this case the previous message is re displayed in a message panel corresponding to the newly selected different panel layout.

These techniques for selecting a panel layout and subsequently modifying the panel layout are beneficial for a variety of reasons. For example the initial few messages of a conversation can be separated into separate panels with white space in between the panels to increase communication clarity in the conversation. This separation of messages into separate panels can represent one type of panel layout. However as the quantity of messages in the conversation increases it becomes beneficial to collapse multiple vertical message panels into a horizontal strip of shorter overlapping message panels to collapse the history of the conversation and conserve display area. This collapsing of messages into overlapping message panels can represent a second type of panel layout. A third type of message panel layout can be used to display an embellished conversation in which message panels interact with each other or objects displayed in the message panels interact with each other. In each case the messaging system of an example embodiment can generate embellished messages and embellished conversations in a a plurality of comic book style panels in a variety of ways.

In a particular embodiment the messaging system can receive via a network a first message from another user as part of a conversation including a plurality of messages determine an initial panel layout for display of the first message and display the first message separated into a panel corresponding to the initial panel layout.

The particular embodiment of the messaging system can also receive via a network a second message from another user as part of the conversation determine a relationship between the first message and the second message select a panel layout for the second message based at least in part on the relationship between the first message and the second message and display the second message in a panel corresponding to the selected panel layout.

The particular embodiment of the messaging system can also receive via a network a second message from another user as part of the conversation determine a relationship between the first message and the second message select a panel layout based at least in part on the relationship between the first message and the second message display the second message in a message panel corresponding to the selected panel layout and re display the first message in a message panel corresponding to the selected panel layout.

Once messages are composed and or embellished as described herein the transmission of the messages in a conversation between participants in the example embodiment can be implemented using any underlying communications medium including but not limited to SMS MMS online forums or bulletin boards email real time communications systems such as IRC Instant Messenger telephone video conversations existing electronic discussion systems speech to text and text to speech systems and embedded conversations in other activities such as games. Transmission as used herein may mean either the sending of a message to intended destinations or receiving messages from a source. The transmit message processing component described in more detail below manages the transmission of expressive embellished messages in the example embodiment.

Additionally in addition to presenting real time conversations and presenting asynchronous conversations the example embodiment merges conversations through synchronous and asynchronous means into one stream per context where context can correspond to the recipient sender subject time transmission mode venue physical location user defined groupings or filterings and other criteria.

In an example embodiment of the message processing system as described herein several processes can be used to compose embellish and deliver a message with increased clarity and expressiveness. Additionally several other processes can be used to receive display and browse messages with embellished properties. These processes in an example embodiment are listed and described below 

Note that the sequence of user actions in time can vary from the sequence specified above. For example a message may be composed before recipients are chosen.

Messages can be transmitted through a variety of channels as mentioned above. Some of those channels may be embellishment capable meaning that the channels can carry information about user embellishments with rich fidelity. Examples include extended Extensible Mark up Language XML elements in Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP transports using Java Script Object Notation JSON or Javascript encoding for additional data in Hypertext Markup Language HTML display or using attachments to e mail messages or Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME multipart encoding for carrying embellishment information.

When messages are transmitted to a channel that is not embellishment aware embellishments to messages are down converted to traditional text representations. For example an animation of flying hearts may be converted to the text emoticon 

When messages are received without embellishment information embellishments can be added on the receiving side in a process analogous to the reverse of the down converting of embellishments. This makes messages more impactful when viewed through this particular communication mechanism than when viewed in a traditional text medium even though the full richness of embellishments is not present.

The example embodiment can be implemented as a sequence of instructions stored on a communications device containing a central processing unit with a connection to a display as well as a mechanism of input. In variants of the example embodiment input consists of a touchscreen with an available on screen keyboard and a traditional Personal Computer PC keyboard and mouse interface. The example embodiment can be configured to transmit and receive communications through third party communication channels such as Google Talk or Twitter. The example embodiment can also be configured to transmit and receive communications through a communication channel with knowledge about the embellishment or expressive data built on top of a message system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 019 505 filed on Feb. 2 2011 or U.S. Pat. No. 7 995 064 filed by the same applicant as the present application.

In the example embodiments described below a user participant can select a set of message recipients and compose a message including explicitly user selected message embellishments and or system provided or automatically generated message embellishments. When a user has completed the configuration of an embellished message the participant can press the Send or Post button to submit the message to the message processing system for further processing.

Referring to the process of selecting recipients and or context for the message s in an example embodiment is illustrated.

Referring to the process of transmitting storing and forwarding messages to recipient s in an example embodiment is illustrated.

Referring to the process of displaying received messages see in the context of other messages see in an example embodiment is illustrated.

Referring to the process of browsing and re reviewing messages in an example embodiment is illustrated.

In the example embodiments described herein embellishments are represented as references to rich data separately available on a computer network. References can go several levels deep and may make use of a proportional compensation mechanism for e commerce such as the system and method described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 912 793 filed by the same applicant as the present application.

The display device can store some needed data for embellishment display locally and can fetch other needed components from a remote storage system. That remote storage system may use information about the request such as the requesting user the message being viewed and the specific assets to make a determination on whether the requested asset should be transmitted to the user or whether that request should be denied for example because of non payment or regulatory compliance. Embellishments consist of one set of data stored on such systems and distributed to viewable clients called embellishment data and another set of data called configuration data that is actually transmitted with the message through the embellishment aware transmission channel. Properties that can be configured for the embellishment may include such values as start time duration target avatar flight path of effects colors to use speed volume and inclusion exclusion of specific components of the embellishment.

The embellishment data contains information about which configuration parameters are available for the particular embellishment. Once a message with one or more embellishments has been composed and transmitted the receiving display device additionally makes use of e.g. decodes the description of the embellishment data to display the embellishment in different modes as shown in the flow charts illustrated in .

Examples of embellishment data include references to specific texture images specific mesh data specific animation data including but not limited to position orientation scale and shape of geometric objects in the displayed scene panel sound effects timing information as well as groupings of elements that may be configured or included excluded in the transmitted embellishment. An additional piece of data in the embellishment data is information about how to translate the embellishment to text mode representation and how to recognize an instance of the embellishment and certain configuration data in received text mode messages. For example a flying hearts embellishment may contain instructions that the presence of the text mode emoticon 

Other examples of embellishment data include whether to change the mood of the sending or receiving avatar elements of the display panel. For example the sad embellishment may instruct the display device to apply a sad face and hanging head animation to the sending user representation avatar.

Referring now to in another example embodiment a system and method for increasing clarity and expressiveness in network communications are disclosed. As described above various embodiments enable network communications to be embellished with additional elements that can convey the emotion mood or level of expressiveness related to the speaker e.g. the originator or composer of the network communication . For example a text message on a mobile phone can be embellished to add an image of a crying avatar if the speaker indicates s he is sad. In the alternative embodiments illustrated in a received message or an out going message can be analyzed or parsed to identify keywords or phrases that are indicative of an emotion mood or level of expressiveness denoted herein as expressiveness keywords being conveyed by the composer of the message. Once the expressiveness keywords are identified the messaging system of an example embodiment can activate a user interface to prompt the composer of the message to select a level or degree to which the corresponding emotion or mood should be expressed in relation to the associated expressiveness keyword. In an example embodiment described in more detail below a pop up list of options can be presented to the user composer. The levels or degrees to which the corresponding emotion or mood is expressed can range from a slight indication of the emotion to an extreme expression of the emotion. For example if a text message includes the phrase I am mad the messaging system can identify mad as an expressiveness keyword and highlight the word mad because the term matches a keyword known to be associated with an emotion or mood. In addition to highlighting the identified expressiveness keyword the messaging system can display a slider or a pop up option list displaying a set of discrete choices that convey the level or degree to which the message composer e.g. user is feeling mad. Depending on the option selected by the user from the slider or pop up option list a corresponding animation or message embellishment conveying the level of emotion or mood is added to the message for presentation to the recipient of the message. In this manner the messaging system of a composer of the message can automatically embed expressive elements into a message and automatically cause the expressive elements to be presented to the recipient of the message in a way that is consistent with the composer s intended level of emotional expressiveness. This process is described in more detail below in connection with .

Referring now to an example embodiment shows a user interface presented on a standard mobile device. As well known in the art such mobile devices can be used to send and receive text messages such as the text message I am so happy as shown in . As also well known in the art such mobile devices can support touchscreen touchkey or keypad interfaces for composing a message using a keypad. Alternatively such mobile devices can also support voice or dictation interfaces for composing a message using a audible speech. The various embodiments described herein can support both keypad interfaces and voice interfaces. Using the message embellishment techniques described above the composer of the message can also add embellishment elements such as the avatar image shown in . Additionally as also described above the message embellishments or the message panel layout can be added or modified automatically by the messaging system based on an analysis of the message content generated by the sending user. The embellishment elements can be added to the message to add a more personal note or tone to the message. As described in more detail below the messaging system of an example embodiment can process the text message to identify keywords or phrases that are indicative of an emotion mood or level of expressiveness denoted herein as expressiveness keywords related to the composer of the message.

As shown in the messaging system of the example embodiment has identified the term happy as an expressiveness keyword and has highlighted the identified term. The recognized expressiveness keywords can be pre defined and stored in a database accessible to the messaging system. The database may be local to the device in which the messaging system is operating remotely accessible over a network or a combination of both. The query of the database can take device or user locale and language preferences into account to find a best match for the expressiveness keyword. Information associated with the available levels of expressiveness associated with each recognized expressiveness keyword can also be stored in the database. This information can include data text graphics images animations links and the like associated with the available levels of expressiveness. In various embodiments the highlighting of the identified terms can be indicated in a variety of ways including boxing circling contrast coloring bolding underlining etc. Note that in the example of the embellishment element continues to be displayed a part of the message.

As shown in in addition to highlighting the identified term the messaging system has presented a user interface comprising a slider or pop up option list displaying a set of discrete choices that each conveys a different level or degree to which the message composer e.g. user can express an emotion or mood corresponding to the highlighted term. In the example embodiment shown in the user interface includes several options that correspond to the highlighted term happy . In the example embodiment the various options are presented in a vertical bar of user interface in which a level or degree of expressiveness increases as each option ascends toward the top of the display screen. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in that art that a variety of alternative embodiments can be implemented in view of the disclosure herein. For example the user interface can comprise an alternative vertical bar a horizontal bar a set of concentric rings a standard drop down box a continuous non discrete slider for selecting a level or degree of expressiveness or any of a variety of alternative embodiments for prompting a user to select a level or degree of expressiveness. In an alternative embodiment the level or degree of expressiveness can be automatically determined or derived by the messaging system based on user actions or user behavior such as the intensity or frequency at which the user pokes at the device touchscreen the severity of the user shaking the device or the stress or other metrics detected in the user s voice when the user uses voice dictation instead of a fingered keyboard to compose messages. Additionally a default level or degree of expressiveness can be automatically set by the messaging system based on the content or context of the message stream. For example the composer of the message may have entered the term very happy or really happy as part of the message content. The messaging system can infer from these types of terms that a default level or degree of expressiveness should be set to a higher level than normal given that the term is indicative of a higher level of expressiveness. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein that a variety of terms or elements of a message can be indicative of a particular default level or degree of expressiveness.

In the example embodiment shown in the user has selected option as a desired level or degree of expressiveness. Again the option can be automatically selected by the messaging system based on user behavior or set by default based on the message content. Note that in the example of the embellishment element has been modified in comparison to the image shown as element in to be consistent with the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface . The modified embellishment element as automatically generated based on the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface is displayed as a part of the message as shown in .

As shown in the user interface includes the several options that correspond to the highlighted term happy as described above in regard to . In the example embodiment of the user has selected option as a desired level or degree of expressiveness from user interface . Note that in the example of the embellishment element has been modified in comparison to the images shown as element in to be consistent with the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface . The modified embellishment element as automatically generated based on the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface is displayed as a part of the message as shown in .

As shown in the user interface includes the several options that correspond to the highlighted term happy as described above in regard to . In the example embodiment of the user has selected option as a desired level or degree of expressiveness from user interface . Note that in the example of the embellishment element has been modified in comparison to the images shown as element in to be consistent with the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface . The modified embellishment element as automatically generated based on the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface is displayed as a part of the message as shown in .

Referring now to of the example embodiment the message composer has completed the selection of option as the desired level or degree of expressiveness from user interface as described above in regard to . Note that in the examples of the embellishment element has been modified in comparison to the images shown as element in to be consistent with the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface . The modified embellishment element as automatically generated based on the level or degree of expressiveness selected by the user via user interface is displayed as a part of the message as shown in . At this point the messaging system of the example embodiment can remove user interface and prepare the composed message including the highlighted expressiveness keyword s and the corresponding modified embellishment element for transmission to a message recipient.

Referring now to of the example embodiment a user interface on a mobile device of the message recipient is shown. The user interface of the message recipient can receive the embellished message composed and sent by the message composer. As shown in the message recipient receives the embellished message which includes the highlighted expressiveness keyword s and the corresponding modified embellishment element as generated by the message composer. In this manner the message composer can convey a message with expressive elements which are selectable by the composer based on a level or degree of expressiveness.

Thus as described above the various embodiments can convert a non embellished message into an embellished message. Similarly the various embodiments can convert an embellished message into a non embellished message. As a result the various embodiments can receive message streams from a variety of sources e.g. Twitter and apply or modify embellishments as needed to convert the message to a format compatible with a particular output mode. For output systems capable of supporting fully embellished messages e.g. animation avatars texture graphics etc. the various embodiments can process the received message in any form to produce a fully embellished message. As described above the fully embellished message adds communication elements and nuances not available in conventional text messages. Nevertheless for output systems not capable of or not configured for supporting fully embellished messages the various embodiments can process the received message in any form to produce a non embellished message while still trying to convey the meaning of the embellishments but using non embellished messaging techniques as described above.

The various embodiments as described herein provide several advantages improvements and benefits over the conventional technologies. A few of these advantages are listed below 

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments as described herein can provide other advantages improvements and benefits over the conventional technologies.

Referring now to in an example embodiment a system and method for increasing clarity and expressiveness in network communications are disclosed. In various example embodiments an application or service typically operating on a host site e.g. a website is provided to simplify and facilitate synchronous or asynchronous message and state transfers between a plurality of users at user platforms from the host site . The host site can thereby be considered a message processing system site as described herein. Multiple user platforms provide a plurality of message streams of which a user may become a content consumer and or a content provider. The message processing system site and the user platforms may communicate and transfer messages related content and information via a wide area data network e.g. the Internet . Various components of the message processing system site can also communicate internally via a conventional intranet or local area network LAN .

Networks and are configured to couple one computing device with another computing device. Networks and may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Network can include the Internet in addition to LAN wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent between computing devices. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital User Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link.

Networks and may further include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection. Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. Networks and may also include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of networks and may change rapidly.

Networks and may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems wireless local area network WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as one or more of client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example networks and may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 and the like. Networks and may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA EDGE UMTS GPRS GSM LTE UWB WiMax IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence networks and may include virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device network and the like. In one embodiment network may represent a LAN that is configured behind a firewall not shown within a business data center for example.

The user platforms may include any of a variety of providers of network transportable digital content. Typically the file format that is employed is XML however the various embodiments are not so limited and other file formats may be used. For example feed formats other than HTML XML or formats other than open standard feed formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format such as Portable Document Format PDF audio e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 and the like video e.g. MP4 and the like and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific content sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein. Syndicated content includes but is not limited to such content as news feeds events listings news stories blog content headlines project updates excerpts from discussion forums business or government information and the like. As used throughout this application including the claims the term feed sometimes called a channel refers to any mechanism that enables content access from a user platform .

In a particular embodiment a user platform with one or more client devices enables a user to access content from other user platforms via the message processing system site and network . Client devices may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network such as network . Such client devices may include portable devices or such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices global positioning devices GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. Client devices may also include other computing devices such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PC s set top boxes and the like. As such client devices may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed. Moreover the web enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages WAP and or wired application messages and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript EXtensible HTML xHTML Compact HTML CHTML and the like to display and send a message.

Client devices may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive content or messages from another computing device via a network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content video content audio content alerts messages notifications and the like. Moreover client devices may be further configured to communicate and or receive a message such as through a Short Message Service SMS direct messaging e.g. Twitter email Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC mIRC Jabber Enhanced Messaging Service EMS text messaging Smart Messaging Over the Air OTA messaging or the like between another computing device and the like.

Client devices may also include a wireless application device on which a client application is configured to enable a user of the device to subscribe to at least one message source. Such subscription enables the user at user platform to receive through the client device at least a portion of the message content. Such content may include but is not limited to instant messages Twitter tweets posts stock feeds news articles personal advertisements shopping list prices images search results blogs sports weather reports or the like. Moreover the content may be provided to client devices using any of a variety of delivery mechanisms including IM SMS Twitter Facebook MMS IRC EMS audio messages HTML email or another messaging application. In a particular embodiment the application executable code used for content subscription as described herein can itself be downloaded to the wireless application device via network .

In some cases a user at user platform can subscribe to certain content and or content channels provided by all mechanisms available on the client device s . In various embodiments described herein the host site can employ processed information to deliver content channel information to the user using a variety of delivery mechanisms. For example content channel information can be delivered to a user via email Short Message Service SMS wireless applications and direct messaging e.g. Twitter to name a few. Additionally content channel information can be provided to a user in response to a request from the user.

Referring still to host site of an example embodiment is shown to include a message processing system intranet and message processing system database . Message processing system can also include a Compose Message Processing component an Embellish Message Processing component a Transmit Message Processing component a Receive Message Processing component a Display Message Processing component and a Browse Message Processing component . Each of these modules can be implemented as software components executing within an executable environment of message processing system operating on host site . Each of these modules of an example embodiment is described in more detail above in connection with the figures provided herein.

Referring now to another example embodiment of a networked system in which various embodiments may operate is illustrated. In the embodiment illustrated the host site is shown to include the message processing system . The message processing system is shown to include the functional components through as described above. In a particular embodiment the host site may also include a web server having a web interface with which users may interact with the host site via a user interface or web interface. The host site may also include an application programming interface API with which the host site may interact with other network entities on a programmatic or automated data transfer level. The API and web interface may be configured to interact with the message processing system either directly or via an interface . The message processing system may be configured to access a data storage device either directly or via the interface .

Referring to the method of an example embodiment includes receiving a message from a first user via a network processing block determining if the message includes configuration data for configuring embellishment properties of the message processing block if the message includes configuration data for configuring embellishment properties of the message decoding the configuration data and generating an embellished message with the corresponding embellishment properties processing block if the message does not include configuration data for configuring embellishment properties of the message automatically generating embellishment properties based on content of the message and generating an embellished message with the corresponding embellishment properties processing block and displaying the embellished message for the second user as part of a network enabled conversation with the first user processing block .

The example mobile computing and or communication system includes a data processor e.g. a System on a Chip SoC general processing core graphics core and optionally other processing logic and a memory which can communicate with each other via a bus or other data transfer system . The mobile computing and or communication system may further include various input output I O devices and or interfaces such as a touchscreen display an audio jack and optionally a network interface . In an example embodiment the network interface can include one or more radio transceivers configured for compatibility with any one or more standard wireless and or cellular protocols or access technologies e.g. 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation and future generation radio access for cellular systems Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA LTE CDMA2000 WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like . Network interface may also be configured for use with various other wired and or wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA UMTS UWB WiFi WiMax Bluetooth IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence network interface may include or support virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between the mobile computing and or communication system and another computing or communication system via network .

The memory can represent a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions software firmware or other processing logic e.g. logic embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described and or claimed herein. The logic or a portion thereof may also reside completely or at least partially within the processor during execution thereof by the mobile computing and or communication system . As such the memory and the processor may also constitute machine readable media. The logic or a portion thereof may also be configured as processing logic or logic at least a portion of which is partially implemented in hardware. The logic or a portion thereof may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface . While the machine readable medium of an example embodiment can be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single non transitory medium or multiple non transitory media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and computing systems that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium can also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium can accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

