---

title: Segmented scintillation antineutrino detector
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to incorporating a wavelength-shifting material in a scintillator to facilitate absorption of a first electromagnetic particle (e.g., a first photon) having a first wavelength and subsequent generation and emission of a second electromagnetic particle (e.g., a second photon) having a second wavelength. The second electromagnetic particle can be emitted isotropically, with a high probability that the direction of emission of the second electromagnetic particle is disparate to the direction of travel of the first electromagnetic particle (and according angle of incidence). Isotropic emission of the second electromagnetic particle enables the second electromagnetic particle to be retained in the scintillator owing to internal reflection. Accordingly, longer length scintillators can be constructed, and accordingly, the scintillator array has a greater area (and volume) over which to detect electromagnetic particles (e.g., antineutrinos) being emitted from a nuclear reaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645258&OS=09645258&RS=09645258
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09645258
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141125
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Antineutrino production in a nuclear reactor can result from the fission of uranium U and plutonium Pu atoms whereby antineutrinos result from the beta decay of neutron rich fragments of the respective atoms. On average each fission reaction can produce approximately six antineutrinos. Hence as a result a typical nuclear power reactor can produce approximately 10antineutrinos per second. Monitoring of the antineutrino production rate can provide a direct measurement of the number of atoms undergoing fission and accordingly the thermal power and operational status of a reactor.

Detection of reactor induced antineutrinos is usually performed through the inverse beta decay process. In this charged current interaction an antineutrino interacts with a quasi free proton p in a hydrogenous material. The interaction results in final state products of a positron e and a neutron n e.g. p e n whereby the presence and or existence of the positron and the neutron can be detected. The presence of a positron and an associated neutron e.g. the positron and neutron co exist as a function of the interaction of the antineutrino and the proton can act as a signature of the prior existence of an antineutrino. The cross section for this process is small 10cm . However a combination of the large flux of antineutrinos from a nuclear reactor and a moderately sized detector a cubic meter scale detector contains 10target protons can result in several thousand interactions per day at a standoff of 10 50 meters which is sufficient to provide a monitoring capability.

A concern when attempting to detect antineutrinos is the large background signals generated by cosmogenic radiation e.g. neutrons muons pions gamma rays etc. which are produced in the earth s atmosphere. Accordingly an approach to overcome such background radiation is to locate the monitoring system underground and hence reduce the number of signals being generated by background electromagnetic particles and accordingly increase the sensitivity to signals being generated by the antineutrinos which exist as a function of the nuclear fission reactions. However operation of such subterranean monitoring systems can be costly operationally inflexible and difficult to maintain.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to detection of electromagnetic particles and particularly antineutrino particles generated by a fission process occurring in a nuclear reactor.

One or more scintillators are utilized to capture electromagnetic particles whereby the capture process can involve a wavelength shifting operation. Accordingly a first electromagnetic particle e.g. a first photon which is emitted into the scintillator from an external source can interact with a wavelength shifting material included in the scintillator. The first electromagnetic particle can be absorbed by the wavelength shifting material and subsequently a second electromagnetic particle e.g. a second photon can be generated and emitted by the wavelength shifting material.

In an aspect the first electromagnetic particle can have a direction of travel such that the first electromagnetic particle enters the scintillator with a particular angle of incidence with respect to an external surface of the scintillator. The angle of incidence also enables the first electromagnetic particle to leave the scintillator and hence is not detected by a photomultiplier tube attached to the scintillator. By absorbing the first electromagnetic particle and emitting a second electromagnetic particle isotropically the direction of the second photon is completely random. With the random direction of emission the probability of the second electromagnetic particle having the same direction of travel as the first electromagnetic particle is statistically low. Accordingly the second electromagnetic particle remains in the scintillator and as a function of internal reflection inside the scintillator the second electromagnetic particle travels to the photomultiplier tube to be detected.

In an embodiment the first electromagnetic particle can have a wavelength in the blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum and the second electromagnetic particle can have a wavelength in the green portion of the electromagnetic spectrum.

The internal reflection of the second electromagnetic particle enables a longer scintillator to be constructed whereby the length of the scintillator is only limited by an attenuation length of the second electromagnetic particle. Hence by utilizing longer scintillators the ability to detect antineutrinos is enhanced compared with conventional shorter scintillators that only detect the first electromagnetic particle.

A scintillator can be surrounded with screens which comprise a material that generates a photon when an electromagnetic particle is incident upon the screen. In an embodiment the screen material can be a lithium doped scintillator which can include zinc sulphite. In accordance with the various particle decays particle generations particle emissions etc. as further described herein when a neutron is incident upon the lithium doped portion of the scintillator it can be captured by a lithium atom and at least one of an alpha particle and or a tritium particle e.g. an isotope also known as triton can be formed. Subsequently when the alpha particle and or the tritium particle is incident upon the zinc sulphite in the screen a first photon e.g. a first electromagnetic particle having a first wavelength can be emitted from the screen into the scintillator. The first photon can interact with wavelength shifting material in the scintillator resulting in absorption of the first photon and generation of a second photon e.g. a second electromagnetic particle having a second wavelength. Owing to the isotropic emission of the second photon the second photon remains trapped inside the scintillator and travels to a photomultiplier tube to be captured.

A plurality of scintillators and accompanying screens can be combined into a single scintillator array with a photomultiplier located at either end of the scintillator array. Hence in an aspect of detecting antineutrinos back to back gamma rays can be generated in a first scintillator and their presence detected e.g. as a function of the gamma ray s undergoing energy deposition in at least a second scintillator in the array. Accordingly the various embodiments presented herein can maximize detection of antineutrinos as a function of increased length of the respective scintillators and further forming an array of scintillators to increase the overall volume of scintillator material and material comprising the screens which separate the respective scintillators in the scintillator array.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to detecting electromagnetic particles are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Located proximate to the scintillator is a screen whereby the screen can be constructed from any suitable material. For example the screen can be formed from aluminum. The screen can have formed thereon a layer of material which can absorb one or more electromagnetic particles and in response to the absorption subsequently emit one or more electromagnetic particles as further described herein. In an embodiment the layer can be formed from material comprising a lithium doped scintillator such as lithium doped zinc sulphite ZnS Ag LiF alternatively expressed as LiF ZnS Ag . In an aspect Li has a high cross section for neutron capture as further described below. The screen and layer can be located directly on the scintillator such that the exposed surface of layer touches an outer surface of the scintillator . Hence a photon or other electromagnetic particle generated by the layer can be emitted into the scintillator and as described further herein as a function of internal reflection by the outer long surfaces of the scintillator the photon can remain trapped inside the scintillator .

In another embodiment a couplant can be utilized between the surface of layer and the outer surface of scintillator to facilitate transmission of a photon from the layer into the scintillator .

In an alternative embodiment while not shown the screen and accordingly layer can be positioned near to the outer surface of the scintillator but with a small gap between the surface of layer and the outer surface of the scintillator . The small gap can comprise air or other transparent material to facilitate isolation i.e. no direct optical coupling of the layer and the outer surface of the scintillator .

In a conventional system an electromagnetic particle e.g. a photon emitted from a screen layer can enter a scintillator as a function of the angle of incidence of the electromagnetic particle relative to the surface of the scintillator. However the same angle of incidence of the electromagnetic particle can also allow the electromagnetic particle to travel through the body of the scintillator material and out the opposite surface of the scintillator whereupon the electromagnetic particle can be readily absorbed by a screen layer located adjacent to the opposite surface. Hence it can be a challenge to detect the presence of the emitted electromagnetic particle in the scintillator.

In accordance with the various embodiments presented herein a photon or other electromagnetic particle generated by the layer can be emitted into the scintillator and based upon a combination of absorption of the photon or other electromagnetic particle and subsequent isotropic emission of a wavelength shifted electromagnetic particle the electromagnetic particle can be retained inside of the scintillator .

It is to be appreciated that while only one screen is illustrated in all four of the long sides of the scintillator can have a screen located thereon as shown in . Each screen can have one or more associated layers where a plurality of scintillators are combined to form an array per. each respective layer can be located against or near a surface of a scintillator .

Returning to a photomultiplier tube PMT e.g. a first PMT can be located proximate to a first end of the scintillator with the PMT absorbing one or more electromagnetic particles being emitted from the scintillator at the first end. A second PMT can be located at the second opposite end of the scintillator to facilitate detection of one or more electromagnetic particles which travel in the direction of the PMT . Electrical energy e.g. particle signatures generated by either of the PMT or the PMT in response to one or more electromagnetic particles being incident upon either PMT and or PMT can be analyzed at a data acquisition system . Data acquisition system can include desired electronic processing and computational equipment e.g. a processor and memory to execute monitoring software algorithms etc. to facilitate determination of a presence of an antineutrino particle or other electromagnetic particles as further described herein. For example by determining a timing between an existence of a first electromagnetic particle e.g. a positron and an existence of a second electromagnetic particle e.g. a neutron it is possible to identify whether the first electromagnetic particle was produced as a function of an antineutrino interacting with a proton in a scintillator material or the neutron is a result of background e.g. atmospheric radiation.

As further described herein the scintillator the screen and the PMTs and can be portable and accordingly can be located proximate to the nuclear reactor . For example the scintillator the screen and the PMTs and can be combined to form a portable device which can be placed on the back of a vehicle or a trailer etc. and positioned e.g. the vehicle is parked adjacent to the nuclear reactor whereby antineutrinos emitted from the nuclear reactor can be captured by the scintillator and or the screen layer . Hence rather than having a statically located subterranean antineutrino detecting system the various embodiments presented herein facilitate mobile operation and location of an antineutrino detector and accordingly the antineutrino detector can be moved from a first location e.g. a first nuclear reactor to a second location e.g. a second nuclear reactor .

In an embodiment the scintillator can be formed from material comprising a plurality of types of molecules and or elements. As previously mentioned the scintillator can be formed from a material comprising a high volume of protons available for interaction with one or more antineutrinos being emitted by the nuclear reactor . Hence the scintillator can be formed from hydrogenous material a hydrocarbon material etc. In an aspect the hydrogenous material can be in a solid state a liquid state or a combination thereof. For example the hydrogenous material can be an organic material e.g. a polymer . In another example the hydrogenous material can be water. In an aspect a polymer scintillator e.g. as included in the scintillator can be utilized to detect electromagnetic interactions e.g. presence of gamma rays and electrons however the polymer scintillator may or may not be able to detect the presence of neutrons. By incorporating the lithium doped inorganic scintillator material e.g. layer into the screen the presence of neutrons can be detected. Hence as further described herein it is possible to simultaneously record electromagnetic interactions in the scintillator and identify a neutron capture event s occurring in the screen .

The scintillator can include a wavelength shifting WLS material which when impacted by a first electromagnetic particle generates a first photon having a first wavelength. Depending upon how the scintillator is manufactured material forming the scintillator e.g. a hydrogenous polymer can be doped with the WLS material . In an aspect the WLS material can facilitate a wavelength shift in one or more photons being transmitted through and or by the scintillator . For example upon being impacted by a first photon or other electromagnetic radiation having a first energy and or wavelength e.g. photon w the WLS material can absorb the first energy conveyed by the first photon and subsequently generate and emit a second photon e.g. photon w or other electromagnetic radiation having a second energy and or wavelength. In an aspect the first photon can have a wavelength in a first portion of the electromagnetic spectrum e.g. about 440 500 nm blue light portion of the visible spectrum while the second photon can have a wavelength in a second portion of the electromagnetic spectrum e.g. about 520 565 nm green light portion of the visible spectrum .

As previously mentioned the photon wcan be emitted from the layer into the scintillator . If no WLS material was present in the scintillator the photon wcould pass through the scintillator without detection as an angle of incidence of the photon winto the scintillator can also allow the photon wto exit the scintillator . However by incorporating the WLS material the photon wcan be absorbed and a second photon emitted isotropically and hence the direction of the second photon is completely random. With the random direction of emission the probability of the second photon having the same direction of travel as the first photon is statistically low. For any direction of emission of the second photon except for a direction related to the angle of incidence direction the second photon is internally reflected within the scintillator to finally be captured at a PMT e.g. PMT .

Hence the operational length of a conventional scintillator which operates based on attempting to capture photon wis limited owing to a PMT having to be placed local to the point at which the photon wis emitted into the scintillator. However by incorporating wavelength shifting material e.g. the WLS material which can be a dopant into a scintillator e.g. scintillator the first photon can interact with the wavelength shifting material causing the first photon to be absorbed and a second photon e.g. having a second wavelength to be generated whereby the second photon has a different direction of travel to the first photon the second photon is internally reflected along the scintillator and accordingly the operational length of the scintillator which includes the wavelength shifting material can be longer than the operational length of the conventional scintillator.

When utilizing a wavelength shifting scintillator the light in the scintillator can be shifted from a first wavelength of a photon wto a second wavelength of a photon w e.g. photon wis absorbed to generate photon w . Owing to internal capture and reflection of the photon w the overall length of the scintillator is a function of the length of internal reflection of the photon wprior to energy loss from attenuation. In an aspect the second wavelength can have an attenuation distance of for example about 1 meter m and accordingly the overall length of the scintillator can be increased to 2 m. Hence the wavelength shifting scintillator can facilitate an increase in detection of antineutrinos as the length and according volume of the scintillator is longer than a conventional scintillator.

The following with reference to presents an exemplary embodiment for generation and capture of various electromagnetic particles to facilitate determination of operation of the nuclear reactor . In the embodiment an antineutrino is emitted from the nuclear reactor . The antineutrino interacts with a proton which in accordance with the previously presented process p e n a positron e and a neutron n can be formed and respectively emitted as shown at interaction A . In an aspect as shown at interaction B the emitted neutron is captured by the Li in layer whereby an alpha particle and tritium t are generated. At interaction C the alpha particle and or the tritium can interact with and be absorbed by the ZnS in layer whereby in response to the interaction a first photon wcan be generated and transmitted from the layer into the material body of scintillator . At interaction D the first photon wcan be incident upon the WLS material whereby as previously described the first photon wcan be absorbed by the WLS material . Subsequently the WLS material can generate and emit a second photon w whereby the second photon whas a different wavelength to the first photon wand a different angle of travel and hence is internally reflected along the scintillator . As shown at interaction E the second photon wcan be detected by the PMT .

Returning to interaction A as previously mentioned a positron e can also be generated and emitted as a function of the interaction between the antineutrino and the proton . A positron produced inside the scintillator can initially deposit its kinetic energy e.g. typically in less than about 1 cm travel distance via an ionization process emitting a third photon w. The third photon wcan be absorbed by WLS material and a fourth photon wcan be emitted by the WLS material per interaction F which can be detected by the PMT .

Furthermore subsequent annihilation of the position electron positron combination can produce back to back gamma rays . The gamma rays thereformed can travel about 5 20 cm through the scintillator with a subsequent deposition of their energy e.g. of up to 511 keV . The deposition of the gamma rays can cause another electromagnetic particle s to be formed e.g. respective fifth photons w per interactions H. Subsequently the fifth photons w can be absorbed by WLS material and a sixth photon wcan be emitted by the WLS material per interaction I . The sixth photons w can be detected by the PMT as shown by interactions J.

Turning to an antineutrino detector is presented. illustrates a plurality of components which are depicted in whereby the antineutrino detector illustrates nine scintillators e.g. s s being utilized in combination as a 3 3 scintillator array. It is to be appreciated that any number of scintillators can be utilized in combination e.g. n n scintillators where n is a positive integer n y scintillators where n and y are positive integers etc. As shown in the array of scintillators are separated by a plurality of screens and layers not shown and further a PMT is located at one end of the array of n n scintillators . While not shown it is to be appreciated that another PMT e.g. PMT can be located at the end of the n n scintillators opposite to the PMT .

Further while the PMT is illustrated as comprising of a single PMT each scintillator in the array of scintillators can have its own pair of scintillators connected thereto. For example scintillator scan operate with a first pair of PMTs e.g. one PMT at each respective end of the scintillator s and scintillator scan operate with a second pair of PMTs e.g. one PMT at each respective end of the scintillator s .

Furthermore antineutrino detector and similarly components and of antineutrino detector can be sealed into a light tight enclosure not shown with PMT and PMT electrically coupled to a data acquisition system e.g. a data acquisition system .

The scintillators can be of any suitable dimension and cross section. For example a scintillator can have a width of about 1 to 6 . In an embodiment each of the scintillators e.g. any of s s can have a cross sectional dimension of about 5 5 e.g. about 12.7 cm about 12.7 cm . Further the length of the scintillators can be based at least in part on the attenuation distance of the second photon w emitted by the wavelength shifting material e.g. first WLS material . For example the length can be about 60 cm about 1 m about 2 m etc. Furthermore the screens can be of sufficient dimension to facilitate coverage of a respective surface of a scintillator. For example based on the previously mentioned dimensions for a scintillator a screen can have a width of about 5 e.g. about 12.7 cm and a length of about 1 m. In another aspect the scintillators can have a cross sectional shape that can facilitate close packing of the scintillators in a scintillator array. For example while illustrates scintillators s shaving a square cross section the cross section can also be triangular rectangular hexagonal or other close packed facilitating shape.

As previously mentioned as part of the process of detecting an antineutrino being emitted by the nuclear reactor the antineutrino can interact with a proton whereby the interaction can result in the generation of a positron. The position can subsequently annihilate to form back to back gamma rays and . Based upon the dimensions of the respective scintillators e.g. scintillators s s or s the gamma rays and can travel to an adjacent scintillator per the interactions H shown in . For example while being generated in a first scintillator s travels through to the second scintillator s via the intermediate portion of screen . Further while also being generated in the first scintillator s travels through to the third scintillator s via the respective intermediate portion of screen . At interaction H the gamma rays and deposit their respective energy which can cause a pair of photons e.g. photons having a fifth wavelength w to be generated. At interaction I the pair of photons can subsequently interact with WLS material in the respective scintillator to form respective photons e.g. photons having a sixth wavelength w the wphotons can be detected by the PMT or PMT . Hence a photon having a fourth wavelength w e.g. formed at interaction F can be detected by the PMT e.g. associated with scintillator s at interaction G. And further owing to the travel of gamma rays and into respective scintillators sand s a pair of photons having sixth wavelengths w can be respectively detected by each PMT respectively attached to scintillators sand s.

The various embodiments presented herein can be utilized to enhance rejection of background events through the use of unambiguous particle identification PID of the final state positron and neutron. For example the formation of the positron and the subsequent formation of the gamma rays can occur over such a short duration that they can be virtually indistinguishable in any single volume detector e.g. an antineutrino detector comprising of a single scintillator . However by forming an array of scintillators e.g. a segmented scintillator detector as shown in the positron can be identified via a topological selection due to the fact that the annihilation gammas e.g. having an energy of 511 keV will tend to travel about 5 20 cm and accordingly can deposit energy in a neighboring scintillator segment. Hence by detecting the positron and gamma rays in two or more scintillators e.g. adjacently located it is possible to perform PID and accordingly constrain positron candidate selection. Furthermore by identifying a potential occurrence of a positron a time constraint can be applied e.g. within about 400 micro seconds between any two energy depositions in which a first energy deposition satisfies a positron PID and the second energy deposition satisfies a neutron PID defined as an event identified as arising from a neighboring scintillator and associated screen layer.

In an aspect conventional antineutrino detectors are unable to perform PID and uncorrelated background events e.g. ambient neutrons etc. can only be estimated through statistical processes which are subsequently applied to a candidate antineutrino event sample. With a segmented scintillator detector system per antineutrino detector uncorrelated background events can be measured by constructing an event definition in which the time ordering of the positron and neutron candidate selections can be defined as a first energy deposition that satisfies the neutron PID and a second energy deposition that satisfies a positron PID.

At the first electromagnetic particle can be absorbed by a wavelength shifting compound or molecule element etc. which has been incorporated into the material forming the scintillator. Subsequently a second electromagnetic particle can be generated and emitted by the wavelength shifting compound. The second electromagnetic particle can have a second wavelength and further the second electromagnetic particle can be emitted isotropically such that the direction of emission of the second electromagnetic particle is in a direction different to the angle of incidence of the first electromagnetic particle.

At the presence of the second electromagnetic particle can be determined by a photomultiplier tube located at the scintillator.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

