---

title: Application access control method and electronic apparatus implementing the same
abstract: A method and apparatus of access control in an electronic apparatus implementing the method are provided. The method of operating an electronic apparatus includes detecting an access request to a resource from an application included in a first area of a memory by a processor of the electronic apparatus, in response to the access request, executing an access control module included in a second area of the memory to calculate a hash value of the application by the processor, determining whether a record exists in the memory, the record corresponding to the hash value and identification information of the application, by executing the access control module by the processor, and allowing access to the resource by the processor when the record exists in the memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407642&OS=09407642&RS=09407642
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09407642
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140312
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of a U.S. Provisional application filed on Mar. 13 2013 in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and assigned Ser. No. 61 779 220 and under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 28 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0023825 the entire disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method of controlling access of an application to a computing asset and or resource and an electronic apparatus implementing the same.

An electronic apparatus such as a smart phone or a tablet Personal Computer PC is equipped with a memory a processor and an OS OS and thus can execute various applications. The electronic apparatus can execute an on line commercial transaction and a financial transaction. The on line commercial transaction and the financial transaction commonly pay attention to security in executing functions. For such a security the electronic apparatus may for example control access of an application to a computing asset.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Conventional access control methods include a public key infrastructure based access control method a password based access control method and a local access control method.

It is complicated to install and maintain a system to which the public key infrastructure based access control method is applied. Further when a validity period of a certificate expires a new certificate should be issued. Moreover the certificate may be lost and or damaged and it is thus difficult to guarantee the integrity of the certificate. Further a cost may be required to issue an accredited certificate.

A password based access control method is considerably vulnerable to hacking and or loss of a password and has fallen victim to security problems in actual portal and on line service providing companies.

An electronic apparatus to which the local access control method is applied may not need a password from a user. However data stored in a local storage of the electronic apparatus may be faked and or hacked. Therefore data needing the security needs a safe storage.

The present disclosure may provide a method for controlling access of an application to a computing asset to safely protect the computing asset and an electronic apparatus implementing the method.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of access control in an electronic device is provided. The method includes detecting an access request to a resource from an application included in a first area of a memory by a processor of the electronic apparatus in response to the access request executing an access control module included in a second area of the memory to calculate a hash value of the application by the processor determining whether a record exists in the memory the record corresponding to the hash value and identification information of the application by executing the access control module by the processor and allowing access to the resource by the processor when the record exists in the memory.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes a first memory divided into a first area and a second area a second memory configured to store an access control table including a hash value and identification information of an application and a record for access control of the application to correspond to a resource and a processor configured to load the access control module into the first area and load the record in at least one of the first area and the second area wherein using the access control module loaded into the first area the processor is configured to perform in response to an access request from the application calculating a hash value of the application by the processor determining whether a record exists in the first memory the record corresponding to the hash value and identification information of the application and allowing access to the resource when the record corresponding to the hash value and the identification information of the application exists in the memory.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating an electronic apparatus is provided. The method includes configuring a first area and a second area in a volatile memory by a processor of the electronic apparatus including the volatile memory the second area having a more enhanced security than that of the first area storing first information extracted from hardware or firmware in the second area by the processor storing second information in the second area by the processor detecting an access request to the second information from an software program temporarily stored in the first area by the processor and authenticating the software program by using at least a part of the software program in the second area by the processor.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating an electronic apparatus is provided. The method includes configuring a first area and a second area in a volatile memory by a processor of an the electronic apparatus including the volatile memory wherein the second area has having a more enhanced security than that of the first area temporarily storing first information extracted from hardware or firmware in the second area by the processor acquiring data representing an software program in the second area by using at least a part of the software program temporarily stored in the first area by the processor encrypting the data representing the software program in the second area by using the first information and storing the encrypted data representing the software program in a non volatile storage device of the electronic apparatus.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention disclosure a method of operating an electronic apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes a volatile memory a non volatile storage device a hardware storage device and a processor wherein the processor is configured to perform configuring a first area and a second area in the volatile memory storing first information extracted from the hardware storage device in the second area storing second information in the second area detecting an access request to the second information from an software program stored in the first area and authenticating the software program by using at least a part of the software program in the second area.

An access control method and an electronic apparatus according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can safely protect a computing asset by controlling access of an application to the computing asset.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

An electronic apparatus according to the present disclosure may be an apparatus having a communication function. For example the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be at least one of and or combinations of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic boot e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical appliance an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch home appliances e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner and the like an artificial intelligence robot a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio player various medical appliances e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Computerized Tomography CT device an ultrasonography device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a Television TV box e.g. HomeSync of SAMSUNG Electronics Co. Apple TV of APPLE Co. and Google TV of Google Co. an electronic dictionary an infotainment device for a vehicle an electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a navigation device a gyrocompass etc. an avionic device a security device an electronic cloth an electronic key a camcorder a game console a Head Mounted Display HMD unit a flat panel display device an electronic frame an electronic album a piece of furniture having a communication function and or a part of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device and a protector. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

An electronic apparatus according to the present disclosure may have various environments which can be classified according to functions and operations executed or computed in the environments respectively. For example the electronic apparatus may include a trusted environment and a non trusted environment. The trusted environment may be also referred to as a trusted world a trusted region and or a trusted area. The non trusted environment may be also referred to as a non trusted world a non trusted region and or a non trusted area.

The non trusted environment may include a typical Operating System OS drivers middleware and applications. Such a system may include Android as an example. Android may include a Linux kernel device drivers Android middleware and applications.

The trusted environment may include security critical components. The security critical components may be accessed by an element e.g. an application of a non trusted environment on and or at run time. By this access specific security related operations may be executed. In general the trusted environment may include a security OS security drivers security middleware and Trusted Applications TAs . Further the trusted environment may include a special module. Such a special module e.g. a monitor can relay and or control communication between a trusted environment and a non trusted environment. A non trusted environment may be configured so as to not be allowed to directly access a trusted environment and is allowed to access the trusted environment only through a monitor. To this end for example a TrustZone technology of an Advanced RISC Machines ARM company may be applied to the monitor.

Referring to the electronic apparatus may include a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module and a communication module .

The bus may be a circuit for interconnecting elements described above and for allowing a communication e.g. by transferring a control message between the elements described above.

The processor can receive commands from the above mentioned other elements e.g. the memory the user input module the display module and the communication module through for example the bus can decipher the received commands and perform operations and or data processing according to the deciphered commands.

The memory can store commands received from the processor and or other elements e.g. the user input module the display module and the communication module and or commands and or data generated by the processor and or other elements. The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . Each of the programming modules described above may be configured by software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof.

The kernel can control and or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for execution of operations and or functions implemented in other programming modules such as the middleware the API and or the application . Further the kernel can provide an interface through which the middleware the API and or the application can access and then control and or manage an individual element of the electronic apparatus .

The middleware can perform a relay function which allows the API and or the application to communicate with and exchange data with the kernel . Further in relation to operation requests received from at least one of an application the middleware can perform load balancing in relation to the operation requests by for example giving a priority in using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor and or the memory of the electronic apparatus to at least one application from among the at least one of the application .

The API is an interface through which the application can control a function provided by the kernel and or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing and or character control.

The user input module can receive for example a command and or data from a user and transfer the received command and or data to the processor and or the memory through the bus . The display module can display an image a video and or data to a user.

The communication module can establish a communication between the electronic apparatus and another electronic devices and and or a server . The communication module can support short range communication protocols e.g. a Wireless Fidelity WiFi protocol a BlueTooth BT protocol and a Near Field Communication NFC protocol communication networks e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wire Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network and a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or any other similar and or suitable communication networks such as network or the like. Each of the electronic devices and may be a same type and or different types of electronic apparatus.

Referring to the hardware may include at least one processor a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor may include at least one Application Processor AP and or at least one Communication Processor CP . The processor may be for example similar to the processor as illustrated in . Although shows the AP and the CP included in the processor the AP and the CP may be included in different Integrated Circuits IC packages respectively. According to an embodiment the AP and the CP may be included in a single IC package.

The AP can execute an OS or an application program to control a plurality of hardware and or software elements connected to the AP and perform processing and calculation of various data including the multimedia data. The AP may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not illustrated .

The CP can perform functions of managing a data link and or converting a communication protocol in communication between an electronic apparatus e.g. the electronic apparatus including the hardware and or another electronic apparatus connected through a network to the electronic apparatus. The CP may be implemented by for example an SoC. According to an embodiment the CP may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function. The CP can perform identification and authentication of a terminal in a communication network by using for example a user identification module e.g. the SIM card . Further the CP can provide services such as a voice communication service a video communication service a short message service and a packet data service to a user.

Further the CP can control data transmission and or reception of the communication module . Although the elements including the CP the power management module and the memory are illustrated as being separate from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the CP of the aforementioned elements according to an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the CP may load a command and or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and or other elements connected thereto in a volatile memory and may then process the same. Further the AP or the CP may store data received from and or generated by at least one of the other elements in a non volatile memory.

The SIM card may be a card implementing a SIM and may be inserted in a slot formed at a particular position of an electronic apparatus. The SIM card may include specific identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID and or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory and or an external memory . The memory may be for example similar to the memory as illustrated in . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or the like and or a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory or the like. According to an embodiment the internal memory may have a form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF drive a Secure Digital SD drive a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD drive a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD drive an extreme Digital xD drive a memory stick and or the like.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module and or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be for example similar to the communication module as illustrated in . The wireless communication module may include for example a WiFi module a BT module a GPS receiving module and or a NFC module . For example the wireless communication module can provide a wireless communication function by using a wireless frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card and or a modem for connecting the hardware with a network e.g. Internet a LAN a WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and or the like. The NFC module may include a connection node for connection to an NFC antenna.

The RF module can perform data transmission reception for example transmission and or reception of an RF signal and or a paged electronic signal. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and or the like which are not illustrated in . Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting and or receiving an electromagnetic wave in a free space in a wireless and or wired communication for example a conductor a conductive wire and or the like.

The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a bio physical sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. The sensor module can measure a physical property and or detect an operation state of an electronic apparatus and convert the measured and or detected information to an electric signal. Additionally alternatively the sensor module may include for example an olfactory sensor such as an E nose sensor not illustrated an Electro MyoGraphy EMG sensor not illustrated an Electro EncephaloGram EEG sensor not illustrated an Electro CardioGram ECG sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor or the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor included in the sensor module .

The user input module may include a touch panel a pen sensor which may be a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . The user input module may be for example the user input module as illustrated in . The touch panel may detect a touch input in at least one scheme among for example a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an acoustic wave scheme. Further the touch panel may further include a controller not illustrated . In the case of the capacitive scheme the touch panel can recognize an indirect touch as well as a direct touch. A direct touch scheme may refer to a scheme in which a conductive object e.g. a finger and or a stylus pen makes a direct contact with a touch screen. According to an embodiment an indirect touch scheme may refer to a scheme in which a conductive material wrapped by a non conductive material e.g. a finger wearing a glove approaches a touch screen and or the non conductive material e.g. a glove which a finger is wearing contacts the touch screen. According to an embodiment the indirect touch scheme may refer to a scheme in which a finger touches a non conductive material e.g. a cover for protecting a touch screen in contact with an upper surface of the touch screen. According to an embodiment the indirect touch scheme may refer to a scheme usually called hovering in which an event is generated as a finger approaches a touch screen within a predetermined distance without coming into contact with the touch screen. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer not illustrated . In this event the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user. The touch panel may be provided at a screen i.e. a touch screen of the display module . The touch panel may be implemented as an add on type in which the touch panel is located on the touch screen and or as an on cell type and or an in cell type in which the touch panel is inserted in the display module .

The pen sensor may be implemented for example in the same and or similar method as that of receiving a user s touch input and or by using a separate sheet for recognition. For example a keypad and or a touch key may be used as the key . The ultrasonic input device is a device that can identify data by detecting a sound wave from a terminal to a microphone e.g. a microphone through a pen generating an ultrasonic wave signal and can achieve wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the hardware can receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer and or a server connected with the communication module by using the communication module .

The display module may include a panel and or a hologram . The display module may be for example similar to the display module as illustrated in . For example the panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD and or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel may be configured by the touch panel and one module. The hologram may show a three dimensional image in the air by using an interference of light. According to an embodiment the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel and or the hologram .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector and a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a SD drive a Multi Media Card MMC not illustrated and or an Infrared Data Association IrDA interface not illustrated .

The audio codec can bilaterally convert a voice and an electrical signal to each other. The audio codec may convert voice information input and or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone and or the microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of photographing a still image and a moving image and may include at least one image sensor e.g. a front lens and or a rear lens an Image Signal Processor ISP not illustrated and or a flash LED not illustrated according to an embodiment.

The power management module can manage power of the hardware . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management IC PMIC a charger IC and or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted in for example an IC and or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC can charge a battery and can prevent introduction of over voltage and or over current from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme and or an electromagnetic scheme can be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added.

The battery gauge can measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage a current and or a temperature during the charging. The battery can supply power by generating electricity and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may display a specific state for example a booting state a message state and or a charging state of the hardware and or a part of the hardware e.g. the AP . The motor can convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Although not illustrated the hardware may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting a mobile TV can process media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like. Each of elements of the hardware according to the present disclosure may be configured by one or more components which may have different names according to the type of the electronic apparatus. The hardware according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements and or may further include other additional elements and or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. Further some of the elements of the hardware according to the present disclosure may be combined into one entity which can perform the same functions as those of the elements before the combination.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including at least one combination of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component and or circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrally configured article and or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit performing at least one function and or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically and or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific ICt ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known and or are to be developed hereinafter.

Referring to the programming module may be included e.g. stored in the electronic apparatus e.g. the memory as illustrated in . At least a part of the programming module may be configured by software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof. The programming module may include an OS that is implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware to control resources related to an electronic device e.g. the electronic device and or various applications. e.g. applications driven on the OS. For example the OS may be Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada or the like. Referring to the programming module may include a kernel middleware an API and the applications .

The kernel which may be like the kernel may include a system resource manager and or a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example a process manager a memory manager and a file system manager. The system resource manager can control allocate and or collect system resources. The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver and an audio driver. Further according to an embodiment the device driver may include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver not illustrated .

The middleware may include a plurality of modules implemented in advance for providing functions commonly used by the applications . Further the middleware can provide the functions through the API such that the applications can efficiently use restricted system resources within the electronic apparatus. For example as shown in the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library may include a library module that a compiler uses in order to add a new function through a programming language while one of the applications is being executed. According to an embodiment the runtime library may perform an input output memory management and or a function for an arithmetic function.

The application manager may manage a life cycle of at least one of the applications . The window manager can manage Graphical User Interface GUI resources used by a screen. The multimedia manager may detect formats used for reproduction of various media files and may perform encoding and or decoding of a media file by using a codec suitable for the corresponding format. The resource manager can manage resources such as a source code a memory and a storage space of at least one of the applications .

The power manager can manage a battery and or power while operating together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS and can provide power information used for operation. The database manager can manage generation search and or change of a database to be used by at least one of the applications . The package manager can manage installation and or an update of an application distributed in a form of a package file.

For example the connectivity manager can manage wireless connectivity such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth. The notification manager can display and or notify of an event such as an arrival message a promise a proximity notification and the like in such a way that does not disturb a user. The location manager can manage location information of an electronic apparatus. The graphic manager can manage a graphic effect which will be provided to a user and or a user interface related to the graphic effect. The security manager can provide all security functions used for system security and or user authentication. According to an embodiment when an electronic apparatus e.g. the electronic apparatus has a telephone call function the middleware may further include a telephony manager not illustrated for managing a voice and or video communication function of the electronic apparatus.

The middleware may generate and use a new middleware module through various functional combinations of the aforementioned internal element modules. The middleware can provide modules specialized according to types of OSs in order to provide differentiated functions. Further the middleware may dynamically remove some of the existing elements and or add new elements. Accordingly the middleware may exclude some of the elements described in the various embodiments of the present disclosure further include other elements and or substitute the elements with elements having a different name and performing a similar function.

The API which may be similar to the API is a set of API programming functions and may be provided with a different configuration according to the OS. For example in a case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided for each of platforms and in a case of Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The applications which may include an application similar to the application may include for example a preloaded application and or a third party application. The applications may include a home application a dialer application a Short Messaging Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an Instant Messaging IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contact application a voice dial application an email application a calendar application a media player application an album application and a clock application . However the present embodiment is not limited thereto and the applications may include any other similar and or suitable application.

At least a part of the programming module can be implemented by commands stored in computer readable storage media. When the commands are executed by at least one processor e.g. the processor at least one processor can perform functions corresponding to the commands. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module can be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing at least one function.

The titles of the aforementioned elements of the programming module e.g. the programming module according to the present disclosure may vary depending on the type of the OS. The programming module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements and or may further include other additional elements and or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. The operations performed by a programming module and or other elements according to the present disclosure may be processed through a sequential parallel repetitive and or heuristic method and some of the operations may be omitted and or other operations may be added.

Referring to some private applications may request a trusted environment to allow access to a system resource and or an application resource included in trusted computation capable hardware e.g. a trusted storage of the trusted environment. In this event the application resource may refer to a key e.g. a security key sensitive data access to somewhere etc. The system resource may refer to a memory a processor a bus etc. Hash based application access control on a trusted platform allows managing of separate access of these applications to their resources while keeping confidentiality of each application. No user interaction such as password input is used while high hardware level security level is achieved.

The first memory may be logically and or physically configured into a non trusted environment such as a first area and a trusted environment such as a second area by the processor . Further the first memory may be a volatile memory e.g. a DRAM.

The second memory may include an access control module an access control table and applications   to  N. Further the second memory may be a non volatile memory e.g. flash memory .

The third memory may include a secret key . Further the third memory may be a non volatile memory e.g. a ROM. Although the third memory is separate from the hardware in a part or the entire of the third memory may be included in the hardware according to an embodiment.

The processor may be for example the processor illustrated in . When a battery power is supplied to the processor a booting program is loaded from the second memory and or the third memory to the first memory . The processor can access the booting program loaded in the first memory decipher its command and perform a function e.g. environment classification and or OS loading according to a result of the deciphering. The processor can divide all or a part of the first memory into the non trusted environment and the trusted environment and can load an OS from the second memory and or the third memory to the trusted environment of the first memory . The processor can access the booting program loaded to the first memory and execute its function e.g. access control module and its table loading. The processor can load the access control module and the secret key into the trusted environment . According to an embodiment the secret key may not be loaded into the trusted environment . Further the processor can load the access control table e.g. an access control table into the non trusted environment and load at least one of the applications   to  N into the non trusted environment . According to an embodiment the access control table e.g. an access control table as illustrated in may be loaded into the trusted environment . The processor can access the access control module and execute its function.

According to another embodiment the electronic apparatus includes a volatile memory e.g. the first memory a non volatile memory e.g. the second memory a hardware storage device e.g. the third memory and a processor and the processor may be configured to perform various operations by software such as but not limited to configuring the volatile memory into a first area e.g. the non trusted environment and a second area e.g. the trusted environment temporarily storing first information e.g. the secret key extracted from the hardware storage device in the second area temporarily storing second information e.g. at least one of an additional file a static content an application code a User Interface UI string an animation instruction application data a contact an image a password a text a dynamic image and contents in the second area recognizing a request for access of the software program temporarily stored in the first area to the second information and authenticating the software program by using at least a part of the software program in the second area. The software program may comprise one or more of an application program a system software component or a service program. For the authentication the processor may be configured to map at least a part of data of the software program to data having a fixed length. The processor may be configured to authenticate the software program by comparing a first hash value generated using at least a part of the software program and a second hash value that has been previously calculated. The processor may be configured to acquire the second hash value by using the first information. The processor may be configured to generate the first hash value by using a code and or static data of the application. The processor may be configured to temporarily extract data including the second hash value from the non volatile storage device into the second area. The processor may be configured to perform the authentication by using identification information of the software program. The processor may be configured to perform the authentication by using data obtained by encrypting at least a part of the software program stored together and an authentication tag obtained by encrypting a hash value of the data. For the authentication the processor may be configured to allow access of the software program to the second information based on the authentication. The processor may be configured to configure the volatile memory into a first area and a second area temporarily store first information extracted from the hardware storage device in the second area acquire data representing an software program in the second area by using at least a part of the software program temporarily stored in the first area encrypt the data representing the software program in the second area by using the first information and store the encrypted data representing the software program in the non volatile storage device. The processor may be configured to compare the data acquired using at least a part of the software program and a second hash value that has been previously calculated. The processor may be configured to encrypt and store identification information of the software program. The processor may be configured to store data obtained by encrypting at least a part of the software program together with an authentication tag obtained by encrypting a hash value of the data in the second area.

Referring to a programming module may be included e.g. stored in the electronic apparatus e.g. the memory illustrated in . At least a part of the programming module may be configured by software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof.

The programming module may include a non trusted environment and a trusted environment . The non trusted environment may include applications   N and an access control table . The trusted environment may include an access control module . All functions of the access control module can be executed in the trusted environment . The access control module may be configured by software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof.

The applications   N may be for example elements of the applications illustrated in . Each of the applications   N can request the access control module to allow access to a resource. Each of the applications   N may include an application code static data and dynamic data. When the application is for example an address book application like the contact application the static data may be a background image and or contacts and the dynamic data may be numbers included in each contact. The access control table may include records corresponding to the applications   N. Such records may be encrypted.

In response to a request for registration from an application e.g. the application   the access control module can calculate a hash value and Identification ID information of the application. The access control module can determine whether a record corresponding to the calculated hash value and ID information exists in the access control table . As a result of the determination when a record corresponding to the calculated hash value and ID information does not exist the access control module can insert the calculated hash value and ID information as a new record in the access control table . This implies a successful registration of the corresponding application. In addition the access control module may generate and provide an application token to the corresponding application. When the hash value and ID information of the application already exists in the access control table it implies that the application has been already registered and the access control module may deny the request for the registration. Additionally the access control module may perform an operation of outputting a registration denial message to the user. In this event the outputting may include at least one of a visual feedback using a display module an auditory feedback using a speaker and a tactile feedback using a motor.

An application e.g. the application   can request the access control module to allow access to some resources such as access to a key data a certain place and or another resource. In response to this request the access control module can calculate a hash value and ID of the application. The access control module can calculate the hash value in various ways. For example the access control module may obtain a part or all of a binary path of the application from an OS e.g. an OS of the trusted environment and or an OS of the non trusted environment and calculate a hash value of the obtained binary path. Otherwise the access control module may calculate a part or all of a code of an application existing in a memory e.g. a secure storage managed by the trusted environment and or a usual storage managed by the non trusted environment .

The access control module may obtain a part or all of a binary path of an application from an OS and calculate an ID using the obtained binary path. Additionally or alternatively the access control module can calculate the ID using a title of the application stored in the memory. Otherwise the access control module may generate an ID by using various types of information e.g. application title OS title version information etc. of the application stored in the memory. Otherwise the access control module can configure at least one of various types of information of the application stored in the memory as an application ID.

When a record corresponding to the calculated hash value and ID information exists in the access control table which implies that authentication of the application has succeeded the access control module can allow the access. As a result the application can access the resource and perform operations e.g. data reading data writing data change use of hardware access to another application etc.

When a record corresponding to the calculated hash value and ID information does not exist which implies that authentication of the application has failed the access control module can deny the access. Additionally when the authentication has failed the access control module may perform an operation of outputting a warning message to the user. In this event the outputting may include at least one of a visual feedback using a display module an auditory feedback using a speaker and a tactile feedback using a motor.

According to an embodiment when the authentication has failed the access control module may generate and record and or log an application upgrade event. The application upgrade can request approval of a user. When the application upgrade has been approved by the user the access control module can upgrade the corresponding application calculate an ID and hash value of the upgraded application and upgrade a corresponding record of the access control table by the calculated ID and hash value. Thereafter when the upgraded application requests access the access control module may allow the access.

The access control table may be stored in the non trusted environment . In this event records of the access control table may be encrypted according to an authenticated encryption scheme. For the encryption scheme an Advanced Encryption Standard AES Galois Counter Mode GCM process e.g. a process shown in may be used and or another method scheme and or operation may be used. Encryption of the records of the table can be executed in the trusted environment . For example the access control module can encrypt a record and register the encrypted record in the access control table . Decryption of an encrypted record can also be executed in the trusted environment . For example the access control module can read the access control table from the non trusted environment and then decipher records of the read access control table by using a deciphering key e.g. a secret trusted environment key. The access control module can compare each of the deciphered records with the hash value and the ID of the application to determine whether a record corresponding to the hash value and the ID exists in the access control table.

The authenticated encryption process operating in the trusted environment can guarantee the confidentiality of the access control table . Further the authenticated encryption process can guarantee detection of any integrity violation in the access control table . This guarantee means that it is impossible computationally to forge any record in the access control table and that any unauthorized change of the access control table will be detected by the access control module . Ensuring of detection of integrity violation in the access control table gives in turn a guarantee of correct access control decisions.

According to an embodiment the application making a request for access to a resource to the access control module may be an application operating in the trusted environment .

According to an embodiment a resource requiring approval of access may be a resource included in the trusted environment . These resources may include at least one of system resources e.g. a memory a process a bus etc. and application resources e.g. a key data another application etc.

Referring to a programming module may be included e.g. stored in the electronic apparatus e.g. the memory as illustrated in . The programming module may include a non trusted environment and a trusted environment . The trusted environment may include applications   N. The trusted environment may include an access control module and an access control table . When the access control table is included in the safe trusted environment records of the access control table may not be encrypted.

Referring to an access control module e.g. the access control module can read all or a part of code and or static data of an application . The access control module can calculate a hash value of the read all or part of the application by using an appointed hash function . For example when the read all or part of the application has a size of 1 GB and the hash function is Secure Hash Algorithm SHA 256 the hash value has a size of 256 bits.

Referring to in an access control table each of records   to  N may include an encrypted Application ID App ID and an encrypted Application Hash App Hash value. The application ID may be configured from at least one of a full binary path and a title of a corresponding application. Of course it may be configured in another way. The integrity of each record is ensured using an authenticated encryption process and an integrity of the whole table may be also ensured.

According to an embodiment a hash value in a record may be included in a trusted environment e.g. the trusted environment or using the access control module Media Access Control MAC etc. In a record another value e.g. an application ID may be included in a non trusted environment e.g. the non trusted environment or . The access control table may be included in the non trusted environment e.g. the non trusted environment . Alternatively the access control table may be included in the trusted environment e.g. the trusted environment .

Referring to in an access control table each of records   to  N may include an encrypted App Hash value an encrypted Application related resource which may also be referred to as an Application Asset App Asset and authentication information Authfor verifying whether a corresponding application has been forged. The authentication information Authmay be generated using the corresponding application and or information relating to the corresponding application. The access control table may be included in the non trusted environment e.g. the non trusted environment . Alternatively the access control table may be included in the trusted environment e.g. the trusted environment .

Referring to in an access control table each of records   to  N may include encrypted Application Authorization Information App Auth Info an encrypted App ID encrypted application data Data and an Authentication tag Auth Tagk . The access control table may be included in the non trusted environment e.g. the non trusted environment . Alternatively the access control table may be included in the trusted environment e.g. the trusted environment .

Referring to in operation the processor of the electronic apparatus can detect a registration request of an application. In response to the registration request the processor can calculate a hash value and ID of the application in operation . In operation the processor can determine whether a record corresponding to the calculated values e.g. App1 ID and App1 hash exists in the access control table. When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record does not exist in the access control table the processor can register the calculated values in the access control table in operation . When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record exists in the access control table the processor can deny the registration request in operation .

Referring to in operation a processor of an electronic apparatus e.g. electronic apparatus can detect a registration request of an application which may be a request for access of an application to a resource. In response to the registration request the processor can calculate a hash value and ID of the application in operation . In operation the processor can decrypt records of an access control table. In operation the processor can determine whether a record corresponding to the calculated values e.g. App1 ID and App1 hash exists in the access control table. When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record does not exist in the access control table the processor can encrypt register the calculated values in operation . In operation the processor can encrypt the hash value and the ID of the application and can register the encrypted values as records for a corresponding application in the access control table. When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record exists in the access control table the processor can deny the registration request in operation .

Referring to in operation a processor can detect a request for access of an application to a resource. In response to the request for access the processor can calculate a hash value and ID of the application in operation . In operation the processor can determine whether a record corresponding to the calculated values e.g. App1 ID and App1 hash exists in the access control table. When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record exists in the access control table the processor can allow the access in operation . When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record does not exist in the access control table the processor can raise a security warning in operation .

Referring to in operation the processor can detect a request for access of an application to a resource. In response to the request for access the processor can calculate a hash value and ID of the application in operation . In operation the processor can decrypt records of an access control table. In operation the processor can determine whether a record corresponding to the calculated values e.g. App1 ID and App1 hash exists in the access control table. When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record exists in the access control table the processor can allow the access in operation . When the processor determines in operation that a corresponding record does not exist in the access control table the processor can raise a security warning in operation .

Referring to an access control module e.g. the access control module can read all or a part of data of an application . The access control module can encrypt the data by using a secret key in operation to generate encrypted data . The access control module can store the encrypted data as a record of the application in a memory .

The access control module can obtain a hash value of the data by using a hash function and then encrypt the hash value by using the secret key in operation . The access control module can store the encrypted hash value as an authentication tag as a record of the application in the memory .

The access control module can determine by using the authentication tag whether the application has been forged. Specifically the access control module can read the encrypted data from the memory and decrypt the encrypted data by using the secret key in operation in order to generate decrypted data . Further the access control module can read the authentication tag from the memory and decrypt the authentication tag by using the secret key in operation . As well known in the art encryption and decryption schemes include a symmetric key scheme and a non symmetric key scheme. If the data and hash value have been encrypted according to a non symmetric scheme the encrypted data and authentication tag can be decrypted using a special decryption key other than the secret key .

The access control module can calculate the hash value of the decrypted data by using the hash function . The access control module can compare the calculated hash value and the decrypted authentication tag to determine whether they are the same in operation . When they are the same the access control module can recognize that the decrypted data is normal. When they are not the same the access control module can recognize that the decrypted data has been forged.

According to another embodiment a method of authentication using an electronic apparatus may include configuring a volatile memory into a first area e.g. a non trusted environment and a second area e.g. a trusted environment by a processor of the electronic apparatus including the volatile memory wherein the second area e.g. the trusted environment has a more enhanced security than that of the first area temporarily storing first information e.g. a secret key extracted from hardware and or firmware in the second area by the processor temporarily storing second information e.g. additional files static contents an application code UI strings animation instructions application data contacts images passwords texts dynamic images and contents in the second area by the processor detecting an access request to the second information from an software program temporarily stored in the first area by the processor and authenticating the software program by using at least a part of the software program in the second area by the processor. The authenticating may include mapping at least a part of data of the software program to data having a fixed length. The authenticating may include authenticating the software program by comparing a first hash value generated using at least a part of the software program and a second hash value that has been previously calculated. The authenticating may include acquiring the second hash value by using the first information. The generating of the first hash value of the software program may include generating the first hash value by using a code and or static data of the application. The authenticating may include temporarily extracting data including the second hash value from the non volatile storage device into the second area. The authenticating may include performing the authentication by using identification information of the software program. The authenticating may include performing the authentication by using data obtained by encrypting at least a part of the software program and an authentication tag obtained by encrypting a hash value of the data. The method may further include allowing access of the software program to the second information based on the authenticating.

According to another embodiment a method of registration by an electronic apparatus may include configuring a volatile memory into a first area e.g. the non trusted environment and a second area e.g. the trusted environment by a processor of the electronic apparatus including the volatile memory wherein the second area has a more enhanced security than that of the first area temporarily storing first information e.g. the secret key extracted from hardware and or firmware in the second area by the processor acquiring data representing an software program in the second area by using at least a part of the software program temporarily stored in the first area by the processor encrypting the data representing the software program in the second area by using the first information and storing the encrypted data representing the software program in a non volatile storage device of the electronic apparatus. The acquiring of the data representing the software program may include mapping at least a part of data of the software program to data having a fixed length. The processor may further include comparing the data representing the software program acquired using at least a part of the software program and a second hash value that has been previously calculated. The comparing may include acquiring the second hash value by using the first information. The comparing may include temporarily extracting data including the second hash value from the non volatile storage device into the second area. The acquiring of the data representing the software program may include generating the data representing the software program by using a code and or static data of the application. The storing may include encrypting and storing identification information of the software program. The storing may include storing data obtained by encrypting at least a part of the software program together with an authentication tag obtained by encrypting a hash value of the data in the second area.

The method according to the disclosure as described above may be implemented as a program command which can be executed through various computers and recorded in a computer readable recording medium. The recording medium may include a program command a data file and a data structure. Further the program command may be specially designed and configured for the present disclosure or may be used after being known to those skilled in computer software fields. The recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM and a flash memory. Further the program command may include a machine language code generated by a compiler and a high level language code executable by a computer through an interpreter and the like.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments therefore it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

