---

title: Device for controlled vapor generation
abstract: A device and method for generating vapor concentrations of a chemical. The device comprises a reservoir including a mixing chamber and a delta tube inlet section attached to the mixing chamber for supplying a first mixture of a carrier gas and a vapor of the chemical to the mixing chamber. A dilution gas inlet section is also attached to the mixing chamber and supplies a stream of dilution gas to the mixing chamber to blend with the first mixture of the carrier gas and the vapor of the chemical resulting in a second mixture of the carrier gas, the vapor of the chemical, and the dilution gas. An exit port section attached to the mixing chamber directs the second mixture of the carrier gas, the vapor of the chemical, and the dilution gas to an analyzer or system after it emerges from the reservoir.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09506898&OS=09506898&RS=09506898
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09506898
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140124
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 793 974 filed on Mar. 15 2013.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates to a device for generating vapor concentrations of a chemical and more particularly to a device and method for generating vapor concentrations of a chemical utilizing a reservoir.

Methods to produce precisely controlled concentrations of chemical warfare CW agents and toxic industrial chemicals or any chemical vapors using control streams of air nitrogen and other carriers are crucial for evaluating the performance of systems and equipment used to protect military combatants or civilians who might be exposed to environments containing these materials. Examples of protective equipment that rely on these methods include chemical vapor filtration and detection systems. Chemical vapor generator systems have been used in the art for calibrating and testing the agent sensitivity of such chemical devices and monitors. A number of methods have been developed for performing such tests and calibrations.

The ability to generate stable vapor concentrations of target analytes has been developed with various techniques to test detection devices within the laboratory environment. Several well known methods of vapor generation are carried out by using direct contact of the chemical with a carrier gas stream. These include sparging syringe injection of the liquid material directly into a carrier gas flow stream and vapor saturation. Indirect methods where a barrier is introduced between the chemical and its vapor such as permeation diffusion and effusion have also been used.

According to an embodiment of the present invention there is disclosed a device for efficient generation of vapor concentrations of a chemical. The device comprises a reservoir which combines a mixing chamber and a delta tube inlet section attached to the mixing chamber for supplying a first mixture of a carrier gas and a vapor of the chemical to the mixing chamber. In addition a dilution gas inlet section attached to the mixing chamber supplies a stream of conditioned dilution gas to the mixing chamber to blend with the first mixture of the carrier gas and the vapor of the chemical resulting in a second mixture comprising the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas at the desired condition. An exit port section attached to the mixing chamber is adapted to direct the second mixture of the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas to form a targeted concentration for testing of an analyzer or protection system after it emerges from the device.

According to another embodiment of the present invention there is disclosed a method for generating vapor concentrations of a chemical. The method includes first supplying a first mixture of a carrier gas and a vapor of the chemical to a mixing chamber. Second supplying a stream of dilution gas to the mixing chamber to blend with the first mixture of the carrier gas and the vapor of the chemical resulting in a second mixture of the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas. Third directing the second mixture of the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas after it emerges from the reservoir.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention there is disclosed a system for generating vapor concentrations of a chemical. The system includes a mixing chamber and a delta tube inlet section attached to the mixing chamber for supplying a first mixture of a carrier gas and a vapor of the chemical to the mixing chamber with a source of carrier gas connected to the mixing chamber by the delta tube inlet section. A dilution gas inlet section is also attached to the mixing chamber for supplying a stream of dilution gas to the mixing chamber to blend with the first mixture of the carrier gas and the vapor of the chemical resulting in a second mixture of the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas with a source of dilution gas connected to the mixing chamber by the dilution gas inlet section. An exit port section attached to the mixing chamber directs the second mixture of the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas to an analyzer to test the concentration of the chemical after it emerges from the reservoir.

In the description that follows numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that variations of these specific details are possible while still achieving the results of the present invention. Well known processing steps are generally not described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obfuscating the description of the present invention.

In the description that follows exemplary dimensions may be presented for an illustrative embodiment of the invention. The dimensions should not be interpreted as limiting. They are included to provide a sense of proportion. Generally speaking it is the relationship between various elements where they are located their contrasting compositions and sometimes their relative sizes that is of significance.

In the drawings accompanying the description that follows often both reference numerals and legends labels text descriptions will be used to identify elements. If legends are provided they are intended merely as an aid to the reader and should not in any way be interpreted as limiting.

The most common and proven technique of generating stable vapor concentrations of target analytes is to pass a volume of air or carrier gas over a droplet of neat material. The headspace vapor is carried into a dilution manifold to achieve the concentration level. Detectors can then be tested with this concentration stream accordingly. The amount of headspace vapor of the neat material depends on the relative volatility of the material at a specific temperature. Many materials have very low volatility. Thus the headspace vapor concentrations at ambient temperatures are low preventing the ability to dilute into the larger volume generation required by many detection devices. Consequently it is necessary to increase the temperature of the reservoir usually with a heated bath to produce the required vapor concentrations of a low volatile compound to meet the concentrations generation requirement. The traditional reservoir for holding the neat material is a delta shaped glass tube which is immersed in the temperature bath and the exhaust is plumbed into the dilution manifold outside the bath. With the test apparatus in this configuration condensation of the material occurs once the hot vapor cools upon leaving the heated zone prior to entering the dilution manifold. Once condensation forms the heating benefit to generate higher vapor concentration available for proper dilution has been lost. A substantial portion of the additional vapor from the heated reservoir will be absorbed by the condensate limiting the vapor concentration dictated by the condensate volatility at that ambient temperature.

In a preferred embodiment as shown in the device includes a mixing chamber having the delta tube inlet section the dilution gas inlet section and the exit port section connected thereto. At least a portion of the device is maintained within a heat source . For example device may be immersed in a temperature controlled heat bath or encased in a heat exchange jacket to maintain a constant desired temperature of the neat material such as a chemical. The surrounding ambient temperature dictates the vapor concentration available for dilution to produce the final concentration at a certain volume capacity. Preferably the desired concentration of the chemical vapor is less than the chemical s volatility at the temperature of the ambient air in order to avoid liquid condensation of the effluent.

The source of carrier gas connected by a delta tube inlet section to the device supplies a precisely controlled carrier gas that carries the headspace vapor of the chemical agent through the device diluted with the dilution flow from in the manifold for eventual testing and analysis by the analyzer . The source of carrier gas may provide any appropriate gas such as nitrogen and may include a fine needle valve flow meter or flow controller. The carrier gas mixes with the chemical vapor as it flows over the chemical and forms a mixture of carrier gas and chemical vapor that flows into the mixing chamber .

The source of dilution gas is connected by dilution gas inlet section to the mixing chamber and supplies a stream of dilution gas typically air to the mixing chamber to blend with the mixture of carrier gas and chemical vapor prior to exiting the mixing chamber through the exit port section . By heating the device with a heat source such as by submerging the device in a heated bath condensation is prevented from forming when dealing with low volatility agents. The resulting vapor concentration after the dilution will be less than the volatility of the substance at the ambient temperature of the exit port thereby condensation is avoided. By preventing the formation of a condensation of the vapor at the test temperature the issues hindering the generation of a higher vapor concentration of the low volatile chemical is substantially reduced. System is specifically designed to eliminate condensation issues and permit a successful higher vapor concentration generation which is a necessity for the low volatile substances.

Analyzer may be used to analyze the concentration of the chemicals in the mixture of the dilution gas the carrier gas and the vapor of the chemical after it emerges from the mixing chamber through the exit port section .

Glass joint is connected to the source of carrier gas to allow a stream of carrier gas to enter into the device through an inlet opening . Straight glass portion contains a small volume of chemical typically in liquid form in an amount such that the liquid only occupies a bottom segment of the straight glass portion. This volume of chemical fills only a portion of the straight glass portion so as not to completely seal the tube with liquid allowing for a continuous flow of carrier gas from the first glass joint to the remainder of the device . The end of the straight glass portion takes approximately a 180 degree turn creating a curved inline reservoir for the chemical whereby the curved inline reservoir of the delta tube inlet section forms an approximate 180 degree turn between the straight glass portion and the outlet segment so that the outlet segment extends generally parallel to the delta tube inlet section .

Further mixing chamber is connected to the dilution gas inlet section . The dilution gas inlet section is formed of a second female ground glass joint followed by a dilution gas tube portion . The dilution gas tube portion extends between the glass joint and the mixing chamber . Second glass joint is connected to the source of dilution gas to allow a stream of air to enter into the device through an inlet opening within the second glass joint and then through the dilution gas tube portion into the mixing chamber .

The dilution gas tube portion is generally oriented parallel to the delta tube inlet section but has a first section connected to the glass joint extending generally perpendicular to the straight glass portion . A first straight line section extends generally parallel to the straight glass portion . The dilution gas tube portion features a spiral portion generally adjacent to the mixing chamber . This spiral portion is designed to allow incoming dilution air more time to equilibrate to the temperature of the heat source before entering the mixing chamber . For this reason the curved inline reservoir holding the chemical the mixing chamber and the spiral portion are designed to be completely enveloped within the heat source .

Downstream from the spiral portion is a second straight line section . Second straight line section takes an approximate 180 degree turn and forms a third straight line section . The dilution gas tube portion has an outlet opening at the opposite end of dilution gas tube portion from the inlet opening terminating at the mixing chamber to allow the dilution gas to flow into the mixing chamber. It is through outlet opening that the air stream created by the source of dilution gas enters into the mixing chamber .

Further mixing chamber is connected to the exit port section . The exit port section is formed of an exhaust tube which is connected to an exit port . The vapor concentration upon leaving the mixing chamber exits through the exhaust tube and continues through an outlet opening in the exit port section to be analyzed. The exhaust tube which extends between the mixing chamber and the exit port is parallel to both the straight glass portion of the delta tube inlet section and the first straight line section of the dilution gas inlet section . The exhaust tube may be any desired length.

There is a first section of the exhaust tube extends into the mixing chamber and through which the exit section of the delta tube inlet section extends. First section has a cup shape open at one end with a first diameter and a narrow neck at the other end having a second diameter that is less than the first diameter. The narrow neck extends through the wall of the mixing chamber and into an intermediate section of the exhaust tube . The cup shaped first section with the narrow neck are disposed towards an end of the mixing chamber so that the outlet opening of tube portion is adjacent the cup shaped first section so that the dilution gas flowing into the mixing chamber first encounters the cup shaped first section . Then the dilution gas is forced to flow around the cup shaped first section and towards the inlet opening of mixing chamber before flowing into the opening to mix with the first mixture of the carrier gas and the vapor of the chemical. The result is a second mixture including the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas exiting the mixing chamber through the exhaust tube . The intermediate section of exhaust tube terminates with a 90 degree bend portion before reaching the exit port . The analyzer as shown in is attached to the outlet opening within the exit port to make calculations based on the second mixture.

In use the device is at least partially ensconced within a heat source to provide elevated temperature to increase the substance s volatility. A neat material such as a chemical is placed within the straight glass portion of the delta tube inlet section . The source of carrier gas supplies a carrier gas such as nitrogen through the inlet opening and over the chemical within the straight glass portion . This creates a first mixture of carrier gas and the vaporized chemical.

The first mixture travels through the curved inline reservoir and is carried into the mixing chamber through the outlet opening within the exit section . Meanwhile source of dilution gas supplies a stream of gas such as conditioned air through the dilution gas inlet section . The dilution air travels through the dilution gas tube portion where it passes through the spiral portion until it reaches the mixing chamber through outlet opening of the dilution gas tube portion .

In the mixing chamber the first mixture of the carrier gas and the vapor of the chemical mixes with the dilution gas to form a second mixture including the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas which is at approximately the same temperature as the first mixture. The vapor concentration of the chemical after being diluted with the dilution gas however will have a lower vapor saturation point of the chemical at the surrounding test temperature thus avoiding condensation.

The second mixture including the carrier gas the vapor of the chemical and the dilution gas exits the mixing chamber through the exhaust tube and departs the reservoir through opening of the exit port . Then the analyzer which is connected to the exit port may detect the vapor concentration and conduct any desired analysis of the vapor concentration.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to a certain preferred embodiment or embodiments certain equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components assemblies devices etc. the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component i.e. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary embodiments of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several embodiments such feature may be combined with one or more features of the other embodiments as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

