---

title: System and method for persisting mobile agents within a mobile region of interest
abstract: Mobile agents can be deployed to mobile devices within specific regions of interest to achieve specific goals in respect of events occurring in the region of interest. In order to ensure that the agent can persist within the region of interest until the agent goals are achieved, the agent is configured to locate other devices within the region of interest and to propagate itself, by moving or copying itself, to those other devices. The region of interest may be a mobile and/or dynamic region of interest defined by, for example, a proximity to one or more mobile wireless access points or by an overlapping peer-to-peer communication range of a plurality of mobile devices that are configured to support the agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451382&OS=09451382&RS=09451382
owner: Open Invention Network, LLC
number: 09451382
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140728
---
This application claims priority of and is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 078 941 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERSISTING MOBILE AGENTS WITHIN A MOBILE REGION OF INTEREST filed on Apr. 2 2011 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 793 357 issued on Jul. 29 2014 incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In mobile communications mobile devices may be configured to receive and support mobile agents for performing various tasks. However the value of a ubiquitous network of mobile sensory input has yet to be leveraged in the marketplace. Today there is an increase in low cost low power micro electronics sensors and wireless technologies. For example the user of a location aware mobile device may encounter or identify a real world event. The user can choose to download and execute an intelligent agent based software application to the mobile device to achieve a specific goal with or for the user.

The user will need to eventually leave the event or have some other need that requires termination of the Agent on the device. This could happen before the Agent goal is completed. In prior art applications this will typically mean that the agent software is not able to continue to achieve its goal.

What is required is an improved system and method that enables mobile agents to persist in a mobile region of interest.

Mobile agents can be deployed to mobile devices within specific regions of interest to achieve specific goals in respect of events occurring in the region of interest. In order to ensure that the agent can persist within the region of interest until the agent goals are achieved the agent is configured to locate other devices within the region of interest and to propagate itself by moving or copying itself to those other devices. The region of interest may be a mobile and or dynamic region of interest defined by for example a proximity to one or more mobile wireless access points or by an overlapping peer to peer communication range of a plurality of mobile devices that are configured to support the agent. Other embodiments for defining the mobile region of interest are also possible.

In one aspect of the disclosure there is provided a method for deploying an agent to a mobile population of devices. The method comprises deploying an agent to a first mobile device and executing the agent on the first mobile device. A mobile region of interest may be defined from the first mobile device. The agent may be replicated on at least one second mobile device within the mobile region of interest and executed on the at least one second mobile device.

In one aspect of the disclosure there is provided a mobile device executing an agent application on at least one processor of the mobile device. The agent application may be configured to engage in peer to peer communication with a second mobile device. If the agent is able to determine that a second mobile device is within a mobile region of interest then the agent may replicate to the second device.

In one aspect of the disclosure there is provided a computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions for execution by at least one processor of a first mobile device. Execution of the instructions executes an agent application in which a mobile region of interest incorporating a communication range of the first mobile device is defined. The mobile device engages in peer to peer communication with a second mobile device which prompts the agent application to replicate to the second mobile device. The agent application expands the definition of the mobile region of interest to incorporate the second mobile device.

In there is shown a network that includes a server and any number of mobile devices . The mobile devices may communicate with the server through any suitable communications protocol. The network supports peer to peer communication but otherwise the state or type of the network is not relevant to the essence of the disclosure. The mobile devices may communicate with the server and with each other through one or more base stations . Typically the devices may be of many types including cellular phones personal digital assistants PDA netbooks laptops and the like.

The mobile devices are generally configured to support dynamic executable content through the network and may receive content from the server . In particular the server may deploy an agent application to a mobile device for example in response to a request from the device . As described above agents may be made applicable to particular events within a region of interest. In addition the region of interest may be mobile. The server is thus able to define a boundary of the region of interest in order to characterize where the event is taking place. In one embodiment the region of interest may be defined by a series of latitude longitude points or some similar array of coordinates. Alternatively a region of interest may be defined as being within communication range of a particular base station or set of base stations.

In the present embodiments the agent may require its host device to be location aware. Awareness of location may be determined by an in built system such as a GPS or similar which is able to provide the device with its present location to a required degree of accuracy. Alternatively or in addition a device may be location aware by receiving information from the server or via communications with the base stations .

A user at a mobile device is able to download an agent from the server and to execute the agent on the device in order to achieve a particular goal. The goal may be in respect of a particular event occurring within a region of interest covered by the network . Examples of applications and goals of the agent are provided in more detail below.

As described above there can be contention when the user needs to leave the ROI or have some other need that requires termination of the agent on the device before the goals of the agent have been achieved. In order to strike a balance between the user s needs and the agent s needs on the device the agent software should be deployed so that it is able to persist its presence within the ROI to service others who enter the ROI.

A method for deployment of the agent into the ROI is illustrated in the flowchart of . At step an ROI is defined for a particular agent application . The agent application is then deployed to at least one mobile device step for example in response to a request from the mobile device . The agent then executes step and as part of the execution of the agent the agent may propagate itself to one or more other agents within the ROI step thereby ensuring that the agent can persist until the agent functions are completed.

Initially the mobile device need not be in the ROI when it receives the agent but when the device moves into the ROI the agent will detect that the device is within the event boundaries and begin execution. Similarly when the device leaves the event boundary defined by the ROI the agent may terminate or place itself into a stand by mode.

Agent propagation may occur by moving or copying the Agent between participating devices within the ROI. In either scenario the Agent s motivation is to remain actively executing within the ROI. This serves to flood the ROI with Agents that act independently from each other and function toward the same goal.

Copying of the agent will now be described with reference to . illustrates a state of the network illustrates communications between two devices during the copying and the process is shown in the flowchart of . In an ROI is defined with a nominal boundary as depicted. Device  Device  and Device  are operating within the geographic limits of the ROI while Device  is operating outside of the ROI . It is considered that each of the devices is capable of supporting agent applications and thus each executes the agent bootstrap code. In addition each of the devices is considered to be location aware by respective location providers of the devices . The network connectivity may be via Internet Protocols or may be isolated from the Internet with the type and state of the connectivity being largely irrelevant for the purposes of the present disclosure.

At commencement it is considered that Device  has had an agent deployed to it either from the server or from other prior devices within the ROI. The agent includes an ROI definition as well as a device and location history of the agent .

Devices which are executing the agent bootstrap code send participation requests step e.g. by broadcast multicast or by direct communication to receptive devices and then wait for agent activation requests step . The agent participation request provides the device identity and the current location of the device. At step Device  which is currently hosting the agent receives agent participation requests from the various other devices . At step Device  determines from the agent participation request whether the requesting device is within the ROI . For example the agent on Device  would compare the location of Device  indicated in an agent participation request with the ROI defined within the agent and determine that Device  is outside of the region of interest . In this case the agent would return to step and await a next agent participation request. Processing of an agent participation request from Device  however would show that Device  is located in the ROI and thus the agent would proceed to step and send an agent activation request to Device  . The agent activation request would return the device ID of Device  as well as an agent ID and a serialized version of the agent including both a definition of the ROI and a location of device history of the agent. Device  would then proceed to step and await an agent activation response. At Device  if a timeout occurs step while awaiting the agent activation request a failure is recorded step and Device  returns to step to send another agent participation request. Otherwise if no timeout occurs the agent activation request is processed step . That is the agent is deserialized and activated and the ROI and agent history is stored prior to starting the agent step . If the agent cannot be successfully started as determined at step then a failure is recorded and Device  returns to step . Otherwise the copying of the agent is recorded step e.g. by adding Device  to the location and device history. Device  then sends an agent activation response to Device  which indicates the device ID of Device  the agent ID and a success or fail indicator.

If Device  receives the agent activation response before a timeout step and the agent activation response indicates that the agent has been successfully started on Device  step then agent on Device  records the new agent step . Otherwise the agent on Device  records a failure step .

At the conclusion of the process the agent is actively executing on Device  and on Device  . Either of Device  or Device  may then continue replicating the agent to other devices within the ROI such as Device  following the process as described above.

The agent ID identifies the agent and may be used by Device  to determine if the agent is already available on the device. If Device  doesn t have an agent with a matching agent ID Device  must retrieve the correct agent from an external source e.g. Device .

As an alternative to copying the agent the agent may be configured to move from one device to another. The process for moving may be similar to the process shown in . However the step of recording the new agent step may be replaced with the step of terminating the agent on the host device i.e. Device  once indication of a successful activation on Device  is received.

Copying or moving of the agent may be triggered by the receipt of an agent activation request from another device within the ROI. Alternatively or in addition the host device may only become receptive to moving or copying the agent under certain conditions such as when the device is being shut down low battery power conditions exiting the ROI reduced signal strength a specific command from the user and the like.

A real world event could be an unplanned emergency event such as a fire flash flood traffic accident shooting etc or a planned non emergency event such as a concert fair road repair sporting event etc or a combination such as traffic congestion road repair and a traffic accident . The origination of the agent and the ROI is not relevant to this disclosure but can differ based on each scenario. Individual examples are detailed in the following paragraphs.

Other scenarios would be apparent to the skilled addressee from the foregoing embodiments and examples.

In the above examples the point to point communication within a region of interest can help to promote a direct expedient exchange of information between agents. When an agent detects that its host device has left the ROI it may terminate the agent. An agent s motivation to stay within a specified ROI e.g. by moving or copying itself to other agents allows the device to free up resources acquired by the agent after a power cycle or once the device leaves the ROI boundary.

In one embodiment there may be defined one or more threshold conditions that enable the agent to provide a graceful termination on a device. In one embodiment a threshold of the ROI may be defined as a second series of coordinates that define a threshold boundary immediately outside of the ROI boundary. Devices at a location between the threshold boundary and the ROI boundary may be considered to be within the threshold.

In one embodiment a threshold of the ROI may be defined by signal strength. For example where a ROI is defined by proximity to base stations a device with a signal strength of less than 20 with a base station within the ROI may be considered to be operating within a threshold region. The signal strength may be used to as a threshold condition irrespective of how the ROI is defined e.g. by coordinates base stations or by other means. The choice of threshold signal strength e.g. 20 is presented herein as an example with any suitable threshold being chosen dependent on the application and implementation.

In a further embodiment a device may be considered to be operating in a threshold region if the battery life of the device is below a required level e.g. 20 .

A process for terminating the agent on a device is shown in the flowchart of . At step the agent is periodically updating the device location. If the agent determines that the device is still comfortably within the ROI step then normal agent operation continues step . Otherwise the agent may determine if the device is in a geographic threshold region step and if so the agent enters a standby mode step where the agent actively monitors the device location step but other agent functions such as data gathering and processing are suspended. In the standby mode the agent may continue to propagate itself to other devices within the ROI. If step shows the device to be outside of the threshold then the agent enters a termination mode step and an optional termination timer is started step . The termination timer provides a final opportunity for the device to re enter the ROI.

Upon expiry of the termination timer step or if the termination timer is disabled a final check of the device location is made step . If the device has re entered the ROI as determined at step then agent operation is resumed step . If the agent has not re entered the ROI but is within the ROI threshold as determined at step then the agent enters the standby mode step . Otherwise the agent is terminated step at which time a termination notification message may be broadcast multicast unicast to known agents within the ROI.

Where non geographic threshold conditions are employed such as based on signal strength and or device battery power the agent may enter a standby mode even if the device is within the ROI. Further more stringent threshold conditions can be applied such as battery power less than 5 to cause the agent to enter a termination mode.

The components of the system may be embodied in hardware software firmware or a combination of hardware software and or firmware. In a hardware embodiment a mobile device such as Device  may include a processor operatively associated with a memory as shown in . The memory may store an instruction set executable by the processor which may include the bootstrap code described above. The bootstrap code allows the processor to receive an agent application either from the server or from another mobile device. The instruction set shown in may include instructions that when executed causes the processor to execute the agent application step which may include storing a definition of the region of interest in the memory . When executing the agent application can receive an agent participation request from a second processor of a second device step e.g. Device  . The agent participation request may be received through a suitable communications link such as a peer to peer link or via one or more base stations and or a server. From the agent participation request the processor can determine the location of the second device and compare the second device s location with a definition of the region of interest step . If the second device is shown to be within the region of interest the processor can provide a serialized version of the agent application to the second processor step . The second processor upon receiving the serialized agent application may deserialize the agent application store the ROI definition in its respective memory and activate the agent application.

In the embodiments described above the Region of Interest ROI is a static geographic region fixed around a stationary base station e.g. a polygon defined by three or more line segments where each intersection of lines is located at a fixed latitude longitude. In alternative embodiments to be described below the ROI may be dynamic and moving. A moving ROI might be defined by the union of radio transceiver coverage of a collection of moving vehicles e.g. the WiFi signal coverage of two cars equipped with WiFi access points moving in the same direction on a street or highway. An agent executing on a device that is able to communicate with either of the WiFi access points may consider itself to be within the ROI. If the agent requires to replicate or move itself to another device e.g. due to a deteriorating signal or diminishing battery strength the agent may replicate or move itself to other devices based on received participation requests from the other devices as described above.

An agent may copy or replicate itself to other participating devices within the ROI. This serves to flood the ROI with Agents that act independently of or cooperatively with each other and function toward the same goal.

In one embodiment the ROI may be mobile and may be defined by a mobile population of devices that are able to communicate in a peer to peer manner with each other. A mobile ROI may be the volume within which the radio of the mobile device that starts the agent provides a signal strong enough that other devices can detect and connect to the initial device on a peer to peer network. Infrared transceivers are a viable alternative to radios for peer to peer device communications.

An embodiment for initializing and evolving a mobile ROI will now be described. With reference to and to the flowchart of . At step an agent application is deployed to a first mobile device and begins executing step . As part of the execution of the agent the agent looks for other mobile devices within a communication range of device to which the agent can replicate. As shown in a second non participating device is outside the region of radio coverage of the device and so is unable to communicate with the device and thereby is unable to receive the agent from device . At some later time depicted in the devices have moved so that their radio coverages overlap and they are able to communicate. The agent replicates itself from the original device to the additional device e.g. via an agent bootstrap executing on the device step and begins executing step . The devices and now define a mobile population of devices or a mobile region of interest. A definition of the mobile population may be defined by a membership list i.e. device step and stored in one or more of the agents step . Any device that can execute the agent and can have peer to peer communications with either or both of devices can be said to be within the mobile population indicated in by the dashed boundary .

How the mobile region of interest is defined may be dependent on the particular functions and goals of the agent and many definitions will occur to a person skilled in the art. In one embodiment it may only be necessary for a device to be in direct communication range of a single other device. In an alternative embodiment for a device to be considered a member of the mobile population each device may be required to be within a peer to peer communication range of all devices of the membership list.

In one embodiment the ROI may be defined as the collection of devices able to directly or indirectly communicate with each other e.g. all the devices are in range of a single WiFi access point or the devices are able to dynamically establish mesh network of the sort described by IEEE 802.11s. The moving ROI could be defined as the collection of devices participating in a 802.11s network or similar mesh network. Member devices of such a network might be a group of vehicles moving down a highway or a squad of soldiers moving across a battlefield. Defining the ROI amounts to establishing the 802.11s mesh network. Joining the ROI means establishing membership in the 802.11s mesh network.

Some agent based applications may require every agent to know about and be able to communicate directly with every other agent. Other agent based applications might use broadcasts messages addressed to a broadcast address that will be received by zero or more agents listening for broadcasts to communicate with other ROI members. Using a broadcast or multicast address means the sender doesn t directly address the recipients one by one and thus needs no membership list.

The definition of the mobile population may be maintained and stored by one or more of the member agents devices of the mobile population. Changes in membership can be communicated externally of the mobile population e.g. to management and administration applications. Whether or not such changes in membership will be communicated externally will depend on the functions and goals of the particular executing agent.

The process of replicating the agent may continue for each suitable mobile device e.g. one that is executing the agent bootstrap that comes within communication range of the mobile population so that the mobile population may appear as depicted in . Each agent on a participating device may operate as equal participants to the application or each instance of the agent may have an assigned role depending on the programmed functions and goals of the agent application. Examples of the mobile agent application are discussed below.

If a device say Device later moves out of radio coverage of other devices within the mobile population then device will stop participating in the agent application covered by the mobile population. In some cases depending on a policy of the agent or a user preference Device may continue to execute the participating application and thus may define a new mobile population together with any other devices that it is in communication range with. Alternatively the agent may shut down on Device.

A device can figure out which devices it can directly communicate with and can if necessary send a query asking those devices for their lists of ROI members. For example as part of the procedure for joining an ROI a device might broadcast a query asking other members to broadcast their identity and ROI status. Similarly when a device leaves an ROI it could broadcast a good bye message that other members would repeat resulting notification to all members of the originating device s new membership status. A member device or the agent participating in the ROI must be able to answer the Who do you know are ROI members query and participate in the broadcasts. The agent participating in the ROI may or may not need to know the full membership list that depends on the agent s purpose and implementation. For example an agent may need to maintain a list of only the direct neighbor devices hosting an agent that is in the same ROI.

Scenario 1 An Army squad leader operating in the field defines and establishes a mobile Region of Interest as the collection of mobile devices used by members of the squad able to directly or indirectly communicate with the squad leader s device. For example the squad members might establish an ad hoc wireless network e.g. based on 802.11s and define the ROI as the area covered by the wireless network. Squad members join the ROI. As the squad moves the ROI moves with them. When the squad gets near another friendly squad the agents in the ROIs authenticate each other and merge the ROIs. As squad members leave perhaps because they get out of radio range the ROI and other personnel join or rejoin the agents transparently adjust themselves to maintain the ROI. Consider that the ROI of the squad either the original or the merger of the two is shown in and that the Agent is operating on all devices in the ROI. As Device moves away from the other Devices it loses the ability to communicate with the other Agents and as a result loses membership in the ROI . When Device crosses into the threshold area defined in this scenario in terms of signal strength it notifies the other Agents it is probably ceasing to participate in the ROI. This happens in a manner similar to or as an alternate and optional step in the process shown in . The other Agents note the departure message and take actions appropriate e.g. the Agent on the squad commander s Device might notify the commander of the departure.

Scenario 2 Consider a cycling team composed of cyclists a coach a manager and support staff. The coach or manager starts an agent that assists while the team is moving. The boundary of the moving ROI is defined by the union of the radio coverage of each team member that is in range of other team members. The agent monitors the location of the team the status of individual team members etc. moving from member to member as necessary. When a member leaves the ROI e.g. by moving out of radio range of all the other team members the agent ensures that it can continue operating by moving to a team member who is remaining in the ROI. How the agent reacts to membership changes of the ROI will depend on the programming of the agent. For example the coach or manager may define the actions the Agent should take for a given event. Options would include replicating itself to create a second ROI notifying the coach of the change in membership etc. Policies or rules may be defined to ensure that the agent replicates as necessary to maintain an ROI for every team member with a mirror rule governing when to merge two ROIs.

Scenario 3 A team of first responders arrives on scene. Each responder carries a mobile device able to participate in a peer to peer network and each mobile asset ambulance fire truck police car etc. is also able to participate in the same peer to peer network. A geographic immobile ROI is established defined as a polygon whose vertices are specified as a GPS coordinate. As participants in the immobile ROI leave e.g. medics leaving in an ambulance with a patient a mobile ROI is created among the moving devices. An agent operating on medic s mobile device containing medical information about the patient moves from the medic s device to the ambulance e.g. to display patient information on large display installed in the ambulance rather than on the mobile device s small display. The agent might also choose or be told the ambulance s destination establish a connection to the destination facility and provide the destination facility staff information about the patient the ambulance etc.

Although embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanied drawings and described in the foregoing description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth and defined by the following claims. For example the capabilities of the invention can be performed fully and or partially by one or more of the blocks modules processors or memories. Also these capabilities may be performed in the current manner or in a distributed manner and on or via any device able to provide and or receive information. Further although depicted in a particular manner various modules or blocks may be repositioned without departing from the scope of the current invention. Still further although depicted in a particular manner a greater or lesser number of modules and connections can be utilized with the present invention in order to accomplish the present invention to provide additional known features to the present invention and or to make the present invention more efficient. Also the information sent between various modules can be sent between the modules via at least one of a data network the Internet an Internet Protocol network a wireless source and a wired source and via plurality of protocols.

